Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12543
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1319-IN)
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
MiICROGRFAPHICS
Report No:         i2;4i4z
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
hiis documnt has a reskickd diibouon and may be used by redpie is only In the perfonnanoe of
*b.,.1.. ,,EUlI Ane Ifr i'ant mav not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authoriZaIon



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRtIGATION II PROJECr
(Cr.1319-IN)
CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
Name of Curency                    = Indian Rupees
Apraisal Year (1983) US$1          = Rs.9.00
Completion Year (1992)             =Rs.28.00
Fscal Year of Borw
April 1 -March31
ABBREVIATIONS
ATW               Augmentation TubeweJi
BMB               Bbakra Main Branch
CAC               Computer Application Cell
CADA              Command Area Development Authorities
CCA               Commanded Cultivable Area
CDO               Cenral Desigo Office
efs               cubic fea per second
CRRI              Central Road Research Institute
CSSRI             Central Soil Salinity Resrch Institute
CWC               Centri Water Commission
CWPRS             Cent  Water and Power Research Sttiou
DEA               Department of Economic Affairs
EC                Electro-conductivity
ERR               Economic Rate of Retum
EIC               Engineer-In-Chief
GOH               Goverment of Haryana
GOI               Govenment of India
HAU               Hissar Agricultural University
HSMTC             Hyana State Minor Irigation and Tubewell Corpoaton Lited
ID                irrigation Department
IDA               I    oa Development Associatio
IRR               Intelnal Rate of Return
km                kilometers
LDPF              Low Density Polyethylene Film
M and E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NDO               New Delhi Office (of the World Bank)
NPV               Net Present Value
NWDP              North West Drige Project
OFD               On-Farm Development
O&M               Opeation and Maintenance
PCR               Project Completion Report
PWD (B&R)         Public Works Department (Bridges and Roads)
R&D               Research and Development
RD&T              Research, Development and Training
SAR               Staff Appais  Report
SCF               Standard Conversion Facor
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SIA               Spriner Iigaton Assocat
UNDP              United Nations Development Prora
VHF               Very High Frequency
WPI               WholesalePrice Idex
WRCP              Water Resource ConsoLidation Project
WYC               Westen Yamuna Canal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Ope ofi. evaludon
November 24, 1993
MEMDORANDUM TO THE EX E DIRECrORS AND THE PRESIDEN
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Haryana krrfaton II Project (Credit 13192-Th
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Haryana Irrigation II Project (Credit
1319-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was implemented in accordance with the original design, with some variation in
the size of the components Savings derived from exchange rate movements were utilized on
additional work of the most successful components. The project achieved most of the canal lining
objectives and a significant increase in irrgated area, though less than anticipated. Yields higher than
anticipated and changes in cropping pattern more than offset the shortfall in incremental irrigated
area, and the project's economic rate of return, at 33 per cent, is higher than the appraisal estimate
of 29 per cent. The project's overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory, and likely to be sustainable.
Institutional development objectives were substantially achieved.
Project works were completed under cost, but in eight years rather than the four anticipated
at appraisal The main reasons were shortage of local funding, lack of management continuity, and
procurement delays, compounded by a severe drought lasting four years followed by the worst
flooding in the century.
The PCR is of good quality, complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
Ttis document has a res_tc  distbutIon and may be used by ret)pients only In the performance of
their ffcal duties. ts cortents may not otherwise be dsclosed witrutA W vld Bak authzation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1319-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ..                         .....   ,, *. i.
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................... .. .,... m
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
I Pro~ject Identity ...1.
2.Background ........                                                               1
3.ProjectObje vandDescription......                                                 3
4. Pro,jwt D)esign and Orpgnizatio.-.
6.Iecipnation ......................                                                7
6.1 cbetResests..8
7.I?rcictSustaiai..ty.                                                             12
8.BanlcProroniance..14
9.1Bo6we PuMomunce                    16
10. Project ReItionsbip ......................                                     17
1 1.Cons1tingServices             ..17
12. Pject Lunenaon and Data.. .1
13.Issu..andtheFutu..18 1
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWEER'S PERSPECTIVE                                22
PART m STATISTICAL TABMLES
1.RelatedBankLoansandCredits             ..32
2. Priject 'inetable              33....33
3.CreditDisbursements             .................. 33
4. Project Implementation          ..34
5.                        .     ..oj..t C..st and Financing.                       35
6. P.                           .      .      ..Resu.ts.                           36
7.St...sofCovenan...                                                               43
8.Use ofBank Resos ......45
ANNEX KI: FNANCIAL AND ECONOMUC RE-EVALUATION .47
Figure ...............................                                             51
Tables:
1. Area Irigated, Water Availability and Rainfa l.52
2. Increamof CopwedAra  .................a........................... 53
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4. Crop Input Requirements per Hectue (based on Haryana Agric. Uiversity)   .5........... 5
5.Cop Input Requrements per Hecta(basedonSAR)  ....                    ... 56
6. Crop nput Requirements per Hectare(withoutthe proj )  ........         57
7. Fnancial and EcononiicPic  . ........................................ 58
8.DerivadonofEconomic PicesinYear1992       .................... 59
9.DerivationofEcononmicPricesinYear2000     .................... 60
1. EconomuicCropBudget(1992) ............................... 61
11.Econonoic(CropBudget(2000) ............................... 62
12. EcononmicAnalysisWithHAU YiekdandInputs ....   ................63
13. Econonic AnalysisSAR Ciop Budget .......     ........................ 64
14.FinancialCopBudget(1992)         ............ ............ 65
ANNEX 2:IEP         N     A  ...............................               66
MdAP
IBRD 16552 R



PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION I PROJECr
(Cr. 13 19-IN)
PREFACE
Tbis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Haryana Irrigation II Ptoject for which
an IDA Credit of SDR139 MiUion (Credit 1319-IN) was approved in January 1983. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1992, four years behind schedule. Dwirig the funds redeployment
exercise for India in December 1991, SDR15 rillion was canceled. The final disbursement from
the credit was made on April 29, 1992 and the balance of SDR124 million (net of cancellation) was
fully disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part Im of this PCR were prepared by the
Food and Agsiculture Organizaion/World Bank Cooperatve Program mission which visited India
in July/August 1992. Part It (Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective) was prepared by
the Government of Haryana.
The report was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal  Report (SAR), the Legal
documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda, relevant Bank reports on the sector, and discussions with the Borrower's
project staff and the Bank's staff at Headquarters and in New Delhi who had been associated with
the project.
This report differs slightly in format and content from previous PCRs in ordler to reflect the
Country Department's latest views on desirable features in a PCR; these include more emphasis on
issues and a greater suress on subjects helpful to forthcoming projects both in Haryana and, where
applicable, elsewhere in India.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Cr.1319-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objeives
1.  The main objectives of the project were to improve the effieiency of the irrigation systems
and the equity and teliability of water distribution, and thus to increase the area irrigated by
245,000 ha (paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2, Part I), and stabilize watertable levels. The project also
provided for a series of studies and pilot projects aimed at institutional strengthening and solg
the watrlogging and salinity problem (Part I, paragraph 3.3 (iv)).
ImAlMenttio Exnce
2. Project implementation closely followed the SAR, but there was some variation in the size of
components. Because of depreciation in the value of the rupee in terms of the US dollar and
Special Drawing Rights (SDR), expenditure in rupees corresponded to less in dollars and SDR
than estimated in the SAR. The resultant excess funds were spent on additional work for the more
successful components, vilage water supplies, village roads and lining of both canals and
watercourses. The most significant deviation between planned and actual implementation was the
failure to complete the replacement of irrigation control structures. The Government of Haryana
had difficulty in retaining senior engineers in their posts. The project has taken eight years to nearly
complete the original four year program. As of April 29, 1992, about 89 percent of the original
credit amount of SDR 139 million (100 percent of the revised credit amount) had been fully
disbursed (Part I, Section 5).
-Results
3.  The project achieved mos't of the canal liinin objectives and did achieve a significant increase
in area irrigated (174,600 ha), though less than anticipated due to failure of the augmentation
tubewell component. Farming research and monitoring have indicated that higher yields are being
achieved than estimated in the SAR.I These higher yields more than offset the shortfall in
incremental irrigated area; and the economic rate of return (ERR) has been reestimated at 33
percent, compared with 29 percent in the SAR.
Sustainability
4.  The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic
life. At present, substantial benefits are being obtained, and if operation and maintenance are well
carried out, benefits should continue (Part 1, Section 7).
1     Source, Hissar Agricultural University and Evaluation and Monitoring Section, Haryana Irrigation
Department.



iv
5.   The incremental demand for domestic water will, over the next 20 yeas, amount to 80
peeent of the SAR estimate of total water "saved". 2 Unless additional water can be released from
the headworks, an alternadve source of water for domestic use can be found, or a substitution
made, the increnental irigated area provided by the project may decline.
6.   The canal lining will gradually deteriorate.  It must be expected, even with -good
maintenance, that the lining wil require replacement in about 50 years.
Fmdinga ,and Lessonslearned
7.   Findines: The project was generally well prepared. The project concept was sound and the
roles and resonsibilities of the main agencies were well defined and understood. The components
dealing with problem-solving for the future (e.g. Research and Development concepts and
coordination) and fine-tuning distribution were not described in sufficient detail nor progressed
with sufficient drive by the Irrigation Deparunent. The standard of supervision was excellent. The
project has met some of its implementation targets, although with significant delays. Project
benefits at present are substantial but may decline in the future (Part I, paragraphs 6.10 and 6.1 1).
8.   Lessons LTmd lhe main lessons of experience for the Bank are (Part L, paragraph 8.5):
(a) good maintenance is crucial to sustainability; (b) previous related project lessons should be
incorporated; (c) research and development components need to be defined in detail and their
objectives clearly stated; (d) project design and credit agreement phrasing should attempt to
preempt predictable bureaucratic obstacles. The main lessons for the Borrower are (Part 1,
paragraph 9.3): (a) senior staff must be kept in their posts for much longer periods; (b) aU parts of
a component need to be completed to obtain maximum, sustainable benefits; (c) canals and their
associated watercourws should be lined simultaneously to maximize benefits; (d) priority should
be given to watercourse lining in pump-lift areas;3 (e) it is essential to ensure the flow of local
funds to the project; (f) provision of adequate transport is essential for good implementation,
operation and maintenance; (g) research and development components demand the same attention
as construction.
Issues for the Future
9.   A number of issues were identified that should be noted for reference in future project
preparationlappraisal (Part I, Section 13). These are: (a) resistance to new ideastprocedures in the
Irrigation Departnent; (b) need for Irigation Department to concentrate on operational aspects of
inigation; (c) dainage.efficient disposal problem and the appropriate tpe of drainage; (d) need for
foreign expertise; (e) rapid increase in domestic water demand; (f) short post incumbency of key
staff.
2   Domestic water use is increas'ng rapidly as towns and villages receive piped water supplies and population
increases.
3   It should be noted that the pump-lift areas refenred to are supplied by surface water through a canal system,
water being pumped up hill by a series of pump stations.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION 1I PROJECT
(Cr.1319-IN)
PART L. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. ErQt Idenltiy
Project Name    :  Haryana hrigation II Project
Credit No.         Cr.1319-IN
RVP Unit           South Asia Region
Country            India
sector          :  Agriculture
Sub-sectors        Irrigation
2. Iagrojund
2.1       Since independence irrigation has been given extremely high priority by the
Govenment of India (GOI) to achieve foodgrain self-sufficiency and to contribute to local and
national economic growth. The development objectives of GOI at project formulaton in 1981
continued to emphasize irrigation, energy generation, and infrastrcture, with increasing priority
given to alleviating rural poverty hirough increased production and work opportuniies. However
although the irrigated area increased by about 0.6 million ha annually between 1950 and 19814,
yields remained low, especially in the areas irrigated from surface water sources, for severa
reasons.
Pre-independence irrigation development was generally planned to provide famine
protection, and concentrated on distributing water thinly among many farmers. In many cases
water supplies were unreliable since irrigation was from run-of-river diversion with litle or no
water storage. Irrigation development subsequent to independence placed reliance upon the
development of reservoirs and construction of irrigation works down to outlet only, the farmers
being responsible for construction and maintenance of the unlined distdbution system from minor
canal outlets to individual holdings. This was generally beyond the farmers' capability in both
financial and organizational tenns, and delayed utilization of the main irrigation system. However
in Haryana this was generally not the case: the main canal systems, being quite old, have
substantial watercourse development, and in much of the area holdings, have been consolidated;
4   'India, Irigation Sector Review", Main Report, Volume L Para 1.9. Page 2, World Bank Report No. 9518-
IN, December 20, 1991.



2
the lift-pump areas in contrast are recent developments and the watercourse system is less
developed.
2.3       In the 1970s Command Area Development Authorities (CADA) were formed to ensure
the development of the minor systems, and to assist farmers to obtain institutional credit for land
development including watercourse construction. Tley were not very successfil because farmers,
especially those at the tail end of the system, had little confidence in the reliability of irrigation
water supply and were thus reluctant to accept loan obligations.
2.4        Three factors appeared crucial for efficient irrigation and successful, productive,
irigated agriculture: reliable water supplies, greater emphasis on watercourse development, and
pronotion of effective fanner involvement through group action and cooperation. In Haryana
watercourse development was well advanced compared to many other states, but command and
water control needed a lot of improvement.
2.5       In Haryana the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal (WYC) systems cover most of the
state (Figure 1), together with the relatively new pump-lift canal systems in the arid and sandy
southwest regions which are mainly served from the WYC system. The other canals are the
nonperennial Agra and Gurgaon canal systems in the soudt The Bhalra (1.2 million ha, built in
the early 1950s) and WYC (1.1 million ha, built from 1820 - 1880) systems provide irrigation to
63 percent of the state's irigable area. The Bhakra system is supplied from the large Bhakra
Dam, which is shared with Punjab, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. The Narwana and Barwala
Branch Canals link the Bhakra and the WYC systems. The WYC diverts its supplies from the
Upper Yamuna River, a tributary of the Ganga, at Tajewala 6.
2.6        The Bhakra and the WYC systems were designed and operated on upstm control
principles. The systems are water-short, and each farmer is allocated water in proportion to his
holding but is not able to irrigate all his land from surface supplies. Also, because supplies
fluctuate (particulaily in the WYC system which depends upon run-of-river diversions), water is
provided to farmers, subject to availability, on a canal rostering basis.
2.7        At watercourse level, irrigation is c,rried out by 'turns" and is operated on the
warabundi system. The irrigated area served by an outlet (an ungated proportional module or open
flume) is divided by the nwnber of hours in a week (168). Each landowner is then allocated the
futl discharge of the outlet for a length of time proportional to the area of his holding on the outlet
command. This allocation of flow remains the same unless a change is made to the warourse
(realignment, lining or adjustment to the area) The outlet flows continuously whilst water is
supplied to the minor canal from which the outlet is served, hence about half the farmers of an
outlet must irrigate during the night. Because the supply of water is limited, canals are rotated
(there are four systems of rotation depending upon the reliability of water supply to a branch canal
command). Canals are generally divided into two, three or four groups at distributary leveL These
groups are divided into descending priorities: priority I assures ful supply level in all distuibutades
in the group; priority 2 serves as many channels as possible at full supply level after those in
priority 1 have been fully supplied; priority 3 divides any water avalable after all priority 2 canals
5 See aLso Annex 2. The Pukka Nukka' regarding control of water in watercourses.
6     The mission visited this barrage complex during its field visiL The strucues are very old and the head
regulators for both the WYC and the UP canal show signs of structural disuess. lbis appears to indicate
that the proposed new barrage at Hathmiund or an alternative equivalent development is required.



3
have been supplied and so on. he canal groups in most cases run on eight day  rs. flling
during day one and emptying during day eight, effectivtly providing a seven day supply. At twe
conclusion of each turn the prioritics are changed so that the previously priority one group becomes
the lowest priority and the previously prionrty two group becomes priority one and so on. The
system operates so that, on average, the farmer receives two tiirds of the water he would rceive if
all groups were fully supplied with water.
2.8       As might be expected in an area .vhich has a semi-arid climate and a long history of
irrigation, watertable movement and quality have become a mater of concem. Groundwater level
and quality vary a lot throughout the state. In the northeastern regions fresh groundwater is
generaly located at depths of about 3 to 8 meters. Private use of fresh groundwater is heavy and
in some areas the watertable level is declining. In the western inteaor basin, groundwater is
generally deeper at about 12 to 25 meters below grwund level, and is generally bracidsh to saline.
Because of high seepage from unlined canals, watercourses, and also from fields, recharge has
ben large and some other saline groundwater levels ir both eastern and westem areas have been
rising at an average rate of 0.3 meters per year. There are several areas where saline high
watertables exist (deph <3- meters): these areas total about 135,000 ha.
2.'       Limited drainage works (mainly surface drinage) have been built in the command
arem; -- currently draining into the Ghaggar7, irrigation canals or into the river Yanuna. Drainage
disposal in Haryana is constrained. The state is located on the divide between the Indus and the
Gangetic plains, and about 800 km from the sea. If saline watr is to be drained in large, quantities,
its disposal, particularly during dry weather, into either the Ganga or the Indus would be
problematic because of the downstream use of the water. Altrative disposal routes involve high
pumping heads (80 meters).
2.10      CADA activities in Haryana are restricted to specific canal commands where fe actual
cropping intensities are well below design (mainly lift canal areas and the Ourgaon canal
command). Elsewhere the Haryana State Minor Irrigation TubeweLls Corporation Limited
(HSMrTC) has been established as the agent for development below the outlet, and in particular for
the construction of lined watercourses.
E. oect Obecives and Descripdon
3.1       With this background the Bank took the opportunity in 1978 to support improved
water distribution, reduced seepage and augment water supplies through the Haryana Irigation
Project (Credit No. 843-IN (closed February 28, 19831, referred to here as Haryana I). The
subject project, Haryana II, was a second time-slice of Haryana Iand built on the experence and
achievements of the initial project, which was considered to be exemely successful, generating a
good rate of return with well distibuted benefits8.
3.2       The main objectives of the project were to improve conveyance, distribution and
operational efficiency of the systems, augment those water supplies available to the canal
networks, and improve the equity and reliability of water dstributon within the area. The
reduction in seepage losses from the canal system, combined with groundwater augmentaton, was
7   An ancient river cowse which originates from Himachal Pradesh and passes thro Haryana and Punjab.
oe river flows west from West Haryana naa disappe  the Ibar deset
8   Project Performance Audit Report. INDIA - Haryana lIrgatioa Project (Credit 843-IN), May 17, 198S.



4
estimated to enable, at full development, an additional 245,000 ha of land to be irigated (see
.Annex I, Economic Analysis) and at th* same time stabilize watertable levels and assist in reducing
salinization of irigable land. In addition the project attempted to introduce modem irigapdon
(sprinler), improve rural infrastructure, and to provide for the future by including a series of
studies aimed at solving the problem of how to reduce salinity and dispose safely of the resultant
dminage water.
3.3       These objectives were to be achieved primarily through modernization of the Bhakra
and WYC canal systems. The project consisted essentially of:
(i)    Cail Moernization:
(a) Canal lining in the branch, distributary and minor canal systems
(totalling about 2,900 km), improvement of control structures and of
canal communication by provision of radio communication devices;
(b) Watercourse lining and improvement of structurt.,;
(c) Provision of 325 augmentation tubewells (1.75 cfs capacity) with
dedicated power lines which would pump good quality water into
irigation canals for use downstream.
(ii)    Modern Irrigaton Metods:
(a) Inslation of 100 sprinkler irrigation sets serving about 4,000 ha mainly
in the pump-lift areas with very light soils;
(iii)   Rural
(a) Construction of about 120 village water supply schemes for use in areas
which were short of good domestic water supplies.
(b) Construction of 196 km of all-weather village access roads connecting
1I1 villages to main roads. This component included financing a pilot
study to analyze the problem of damage to hard surface roads caused by
anmal (bullock) drawn carts with iron rimmed wheels;
(iv)    reoadng for the Future:
(a) Development of a long-term manpower training program in the  igation
Departnent for in-service and new recruit training; and
(b) Research and Development and Technical Services. These included
many activities to be supported by the existing Research and
Development (R & D) wing of the Irrigation Department (ID), including
pilot projects on water control and cost recovery, and
experiments and studies related to canal modernization and land drainage:
-         EPilot irects: canal regulation pilot project; water charges
and farmer organization pilot project; and groundwater
salnity and drainage study;



5
St1ies- and iExprimgnt: dynamic canal regulation; micro
hydro-electric power generation; special purpose lining
systems; canal system management; and farmer organizion;
management, organizational analysis and manpower needs;
command area capacity factors; actual field application
efficiencies; optimum use of conjunctive water; economics
and inigation flexibility; alternative methods for watercourse
improvement; altnative augmentation tubeweJl (ATW) link
canal methods; examination of optimum watercourse
discharge; computerized water scheduling programs; and
project preparation for irnigation/drainage projects.
3.4       The project was modified during implementation to take account of implementation
experience, currency variations and other factors (Section 4, Part IL). The modifications did not
alter the objectives of the project and merely represented a change in size of components based
upon implementation performance and availability of funds. Major increases took place in the
village water supply schemes (94 percent) and village access roads (82 percent). The major
decrease was in ATWs (15 percent installed of which 2 percent energized).
3.5       The total project costs were estimated at appraisal to be Rs. 2,702.7 million
(US$300.3 million equivalent, January 1983 prices). An IDA credit of SDR139 million was to
finance about 50 percent of the project cost, ir,cluding aU the foreign exchange component Overall
responsibility for project execution was vested in the Goverment of Haryana. Execution of the
works was the responsibility of the Secretary, Irigation, Govenunent of Haryana.
4. Project Design and Organizaion
4.1       The project was- formulated by Government of Haryana (GOH) and the Project
Preparation Cell of the Central Water Commission (CWC). Bank involvement commenced in 1981
with identification. Appraisal was carried out in May, 1982 and the Staff Appraisal Report was
issucd on January 5, 19839.
4.2       Tlhe major aspects of project design were simple and clear, consisting of lining canals
and watercourses to reduce seepage losses and using the water saved to extend the annual area
irrigated. In addition, Research and Development and Technical Services were to assist
development and try to anticipate likely problems. The main design and project objectives appeed
to be well understood by all concerned but problems occurred in conceptulizing the purpose and
content of the numerous studies.
4.3       There was little innovation contained in the project except as envisaged through the
various studies. This was due to its nature and also because it was a second time-slice project
Two innovative features (both minor in tenns of cost) - 'Warimetric' water charges (already
started under Haryana I and to be continued in Haryana 11 as part of the pilot distributary
9   Repo"t No. 4099-IN. Staff Appraisal Report. India *Haryana rrgation U Project". Jauary 5, 1983. South
Asia Pojcts Department, hrigation nI Division.



6
prearranged delivery studies), and a pilot study about modernizing bullock carts 1, were not a
success.
4.4         The scope and scale of the project were appropriate to the circum stn     with regard to
tie project's main thrust (water saving by canal and watercourse lining) but in two comnonents
(sprnkler irrigation and augmentation tubewells) were inappropriate. It is very difficult t =an and
operate an effective overhead irrigation pilot project witln the command area of a water-short
gravity irigation scheme which rations water by rotaing canal supplies"1. It would have been
better to concentrae upon a demonstradon of spinkler inigation with credit available to meet any
demand generated. In the ATW component the negative expenence gained during Haryana I was
not taken into account nor were the effects of dedicated electricity supplies (ie. separate power
lines fom sub-station to avoid frequent power outages) to ATWsl2.
4.5         The project was generly wel prepared with regard to the main components. The
project concept was good. The time schedule for carrying out the works was slighdy opdmistic
given that the Harna I project could have been used as a guide13.
4.6         The timing of the project was appropriate with regard to govenmment policies at the
time (para 2.1). Staff experience in the Irrigation Deparment had been successfully improved by
the effect of the Hary.ana I Project, and as a very similar second time-slice project, the timing for
Haryana II was excellent.
4.7         In general the roles and responsibilities of the main institutions and agencies
responsible for the project were clearly defined and understood. However, the objectives,
methodology, and allocaton of responsibilities for the Research and Development and Technical
Services Component should have been much more clearly defined and descnbed.
4.8         The project was genera}ly successfuL This was because the main components were
practical, sensible interventions which increased te availability of irrigation water and hel
control its distibution. The successfil components relied upon construction for their objective to
be achieved; it is obvious that Haryana is capable of constructing rapidly and to very good
standards. The components involving less attractive staff postings such as traning and research,
and those which required specialist knowledge not fully available in India (spdnkler inrigation,
waterlogging and salnity pilot studies and planning drainage development)14 were less successfuL
10   TI. SAR (pma 3.49) bdLly desibs this study but provides no rationale for it
I1   f work coatinues on spdier inigation in this area. an approach which would be of interest would be each
farmer or famees group having  ir own pvc (or simia) lined rvoir in wich to st  is warabundi
water for use by hist  pnkl  over the foliowing few days. Experiene In India generally ponts to
the spinkler owne having control of his wwatr source as a prerquisite for succes.
12   See paraah 3.05 'Augmenaon Tubewells (ATW' and 'Power Supply', pargrh 8.06, 'INDIA,
Hatyana Iigation Project (Cret No.843-I). Project Completon Report, May 30. 1984. Irigation IL
South Asia Projects Deparment Mis report was not available for the  ispal mission for Hayana IL
13   Tbwe wa a geat simlhaity between Hayana I and II projects both in scope and scal. Hayana I closed
almost on tite (sia mohs delay) but did not complwe on time (mainly because of delys to waexwour
contuction [60 prcentj, markets Mad land levelling).
14  Tehical Sevices - see SAR. page 31, paragraph 3.63. (01 appaety promised to provide funding
though an exising UNDP Water Management Gant ('Advisory Sevice for Modeniaton and Waw
Scbemes') but in the event did not recmit expatiate cosultants; this caused a wate of project funds In
connection with conceptual and repotg work on Waterlogging and Salnity. In addition the sevices of
tho CentaW Soil Salinity Researc  titste (CSSRI) at KaRal, Haryana, do not seem to have been utized



7
Those components which were not thought through (ATWs, ox-cart development) did least well.
TIe radio commurncation component, whilst well conceived, suffered from delays in drafting and
agreeing to the specification, and, as a result, was entirely paid for by Government
5. Project Itnplmentation
5.1       The project met most of its implementation targets. These results were not, however,
achieved in the four year project period. In fact project implementation took eight years. Delay was
caused primarily by shortage of local funding caused by: (i) drought expenses and other reasons
for Haryana State finance being in short supply; (ii) currency devaluation; (iii) initially because
funding of HSMITC for watercourse construction was to be pardy provided by farmers
repayments; this left a shortfall when it was decided not to charge farmers for watercourses in this
manner. Delay was also caused by managerial problems primarily caused by lack of continuity of
senior staff posted to the project Delay also occurred whenever clearances had to be obtained from
central government- this mainly related to purchase of imported goodslS.
5.2       Variations between planned and actual results appear minimal as listed in Section 4,
Part Ell (Indicators as defined at Appraisal). However in one or two cases the unit used to measure
the amount of work done masks some items of a component. Examples of this are the
modernization of canals component, which shows 100 percent complete (revised estimate) in temns
of canal lining but does not show that out of 208 regulators to be replaced only 89 (43 percent)
were completed, with similar shortfalls in other structures (falls, 72 percent; bridges, 66 percent;
new outlets, 43 percent). Road bridges across minor and distributary canals are important; if they
are not remodelled the bridge soffitl6 in many cases becomes submerged and throttles the flow,
this reduces the water level downstream and affected outlets do not draw their ful share of water.
There was an inability to keep construction coherent; in some cases lined watercourses were
constructed on unlined canals and Wice versa
5.3       In the case of ATWs 2 percent (6 no.) of the SAR target (325 no.) wer energitd out
of 15 percent (50 no.) installed (this changed to 100 percent developed of the rnvised target (50
no.) of which 12 percent (6 no.) were energized). In some other cases actual development
exceeded that planned, in most cases because of agreement to enlarge the planned amount of
successful components (village water supply +94 percent, village access roads +82 percent
[original estimate basis]).
5.4       Comparison of pre-project targets and post-project results for Haryana I and It are
revealing. The projects are similar in overall cost (US$222.15 and US$300.30 million equivalent
respectively), main components very similar in content but all the irrigation components were the
same or larger in quantity for Haryana L Haryana I completed six months late taldng four and a
Lalf years, Haryana nI completed four years late taking eight years. In both projects the major
cause of delay was financing for watercourse reconstruction. The difficulties of persuadng
farmers to pay for even a proportion of the watercourse modernization cost is acknowledged in the
SAR (page 9, and footnote on the same page), the attitude of the appraisal mission appears
ambivalent - they recommend collection of 45 percent repayment, and then, in the footnote,
comment that, at the time of writing the SAR, "it is now practice throughout India for govermnent
lS For example the purchase of a tile drainage trenching machine. Permission was first requested from CWC in
1985; at the time of wrting thbis report (August 1992) the news has been received in Chandigarh that
approval is about to be given. Such delays are caused by examination of each request to datermine whether
any part of the order can be placed inside India.
16 Under-surface of architave, arch, balcony, etc.



8
to pay aU costs of watercourse construction down to the 5 to 8 ha block". Ihere appears to have
been a strong desire in the Bank that costs for watercourse lining should be at least partly recovered
from the fanners. In October, 1987, the Bank agreed to cancel the covenant requiring water
charges to include 45 percent of investment costs (see Table 7, Covenant 3.04(b), Part I). With
hindsight, not having this covenant and allowing for all watercourse lining to be paid from project
funds, would have benefitted project progress.
5.5       Project risks were generally correctly identified. These were: the amount of water
saved by lining, cost overrun, wheat price, lag in benefits. Calibration was reastic and where the
envisaged risks materialized the results reflected predictions. Risks not mentioned or quantified
included a continuing slide in the value of the Rupee vis-a-vis the U.S Dollar and SDR currenies
throughout the project period, and political intervention in 1986 which waived the need for fanners
to pay for their watercourse lining. This in fact meant that from 1986 farmers were being
subsidized by the state by about Rs.2,300,O00 per year for construction work (about Rs.3/ha).
5.6       In other sub-sectors probably the most signifiant contribution of the project has been
to forestry. Lining the canals reduced their overaU width and allowed the ID to lend the surplus
canal reserve land to the Forestry Departnent who have planted the areas released with bodt
Eucalyptus and Kikkar trees. Growth of other tees in the social forestry area has been encouraged
by the additional area irrigated.
5.7       Three factors appeared not to have been foreseen, but in view of the Bank's
experience in India, should have been:
(i)    Research, Development and Training were known to be unpopular postings:
this was likely to produce a continuous change of staff, and thus a slow
take-off on the items to be studied by the prcject.
(ii)   The delays in purchasing imported machinery should have been foreseen and,
so far as possible, avoided.
(iii)   Other bureaucratic delays should have been foreseen (delays in local purchase
approval -- vehicles, approval of expenditure by for pilot canal regulation
work).
6. Pnrgject R>esults
6.1       !aeneral. The project achieved its main specified objective of canal and watercourse
lining (100 percent completed). There was a delay in achieving this and other minor objectives
which doubled the length of the project period. There is some doubt about the actual amount of
water saving taking place; this has been resolved so far as possible whilst completing this report It
is unlikely that a fully accurate figure can ever be isolated because of the number of parameters
involved (rainfall, river flows, cropping pattern, fanners' choice in allocating water (paragraphs 7,
8 and 9, Annex L Economic Analysis).
6.2       T hee were no changes in overall project objectives. However the number of ATWs
were substantially reduced; this component took little account of farmers' reaction or of the
difficulties inherent in obtaining priority supplies from an unreliable source (electricity). A similar
problem occurred in one of the studies included in the project (pilot distibutary pre-arranged
delivery study), when an attempt to provide and study on a pilot basis guaranteed timely water
deliveries, was considered to have restricted allocations of irrigation water to others not included in
the pilot study.



9
6.3       Regulation. As noted in paragraph 5.2 major variance occurred in the number of
regulation structures built or remodelled. Much clearer guidance should have been provided in the
SAR about these structures (SAR, para 3.08): in particular the SAR should also haveclearly
identified the difference between replacement of existing structures and the proposed upstream and
downstream control pilot study (SAR, para 3.56). There are difficulties in replcing large
regulation stiuctures in an operadonal irrigation scheme, because the structme cannot be completed
at canal closure time and by-pass works, somedties including temporary regulation, are required.
Such works need detailed supervision and are not of such a routine construction nature as canal
lining. On the original time-scale ID would have been hard-pressed to compie 90 sutumes (45
of which would be capable of a discharge above 100 cfs) per year. However, over the eight year
period the reduced target of 45 structures a year was clearly possible. The disappointing
achievement on structures is not so visible as a shorfall in lining, because the existing structures
are capable of regulation even though in some cases this is crudely carried out The concenation
of resources on lining and lack of transport all militated against completion of the regulton
structures program.
6.4       Modern ifigation. Whilst most of the sprinkler sets are in place, the operating
arrangements are poor, and water supplies to the sprinklers are not, in many cases, assured
(because in many cases they are located on canals which form part of a four-group rotation).
However, farmers are now participating in location and operation and maintance, and have
agreed to bear some costs in the near future. Sprinkler Irrigation Associations have been formed.
There is however little discernable impact from this component Under present arrangements the
sprinkler component cannot be economically viable17.
6.5       The use of spdrinlder irrigation on the very light soils of the elevated hilly areas may
not be economically viable, but cerainly the "greening" of these hills has much improved the
environment and gready reduced sand invasion of the gravity irrigated plains perimeter. It has also
reduced road maintenance, removal of sand dunes, etc.
6.6       BusaLrnfrstuct. The village water supply component has undoubtedly improved
the physical environment by providing a safe supply of domestic water   700 villas. Thus
about 1,100,000 rural people are enjoying better health by having clean water for dnidng and
cooldng. In addition cattle and other domestic animals have benefitted by a better supply of water.
6.7        The provision of 356 km of all weate access roads to link 197 villages including
dhamies to main roads will assist in provision of better services to the villages and provide a more
efficient means of exporting the production surplus generated by the project In addition, the
roads have generated development along their verges (small shops and cafes, repair workshops)
and tractor and small vans are now using the village roads for delivery of agricultural inputs
6.8        Preparing for the future. The manpower taining program appears to be proceeding
well despite inordinate delays in completing construction of the Haryana Irrigation Training
Institute at Kurukshetra.
6.9       The following results were obtained from the pjlumi = !&:  Canal regulation suffered
from a doubtfdul concept. Whilst the farmers on the pilot area canals are reported to have liked the
regular and reliable irrigation supplies, no overall trend in yield incrases were noted. Farmer
organization results have been inconclusive. This is pardy due to lack of interestldrive being put
17  Whilst sprinklr irrigation may not be 'economic, an efficient sprdnler set-up would be most desirable in
the pump-lift areas whiuc have very pcnmeable sols anid unev topography. The psent atempts to
establish sprinkler as a viable system should be persisted with, possibly fumded by the Northwest Drainage
Project (NWDP). if funding is not provided the spinler component is liMely to fil fom inalkla and lack of
opeation and maintenance (0 & M) funds.



10
behind organizing famers. Groundwater salinity and drainage study, a fairly useful series of basic
studies - "Studies for the Use of Drainage Water in the Command Areas of higation Projects,
Haryana, India" were carried out by HSMITC in the period 1982-1985, and commented upon
favorably'k. In addition two pilot vertical drainage areas were built and tested.
6.10      UInder studies and experiments the following progress was made (see Part m, 6C.
"Studies" for full details): Micro-hydroelectric - desk studies done by HSMrIT, likely potential is
26 and 20 megawatts on WYC and Bhakra canals respectively; Special lining systems - bricks
were substituted for tiles, no work reported on high strength plastic composite materials'9; Canal
system management - mathematical model studies in progress, progress very slow and mainly
obtained by using an independent consultant; Management development, some taining being done
and continuing; Capacitv factors and field efficiencies - no work reported; Flexible inigation
economics (see SAR, Annex 1, para 7, other studies and experiments) - no work reported;
Altenative watercourse improvement - base lining with low density polyethylene film (LDPF),
said to greatly reduce seepage, some experimental precast sections were also produced but were
not successful; altemnative ATW link canals - in view of problem with ATWs this item was not
executed; optimum watercourse discharge - no work reported; computerized water scheduling - no
data; project preparation - believed to include preliminary work on Water Resources Consolidation
Project (WRCP), Ottu Weir (Headworks)20.
6.11       Appraisal economic results were based upon the assumption that the project-funded
woriks would be completed in four years. In fact, the project took eight years. The incremental
area generated by the project was less (71 percent) than that predicted at appraial and the cropping
pattern did not alter as much as expected towards high value crops. The economic rate of return
(ERR) for the project is restimated at 33 percent (all costs included) as compared with 29 percent
(all costs included) at appraisal. This ERR would drop to 17 percent, if the SAR crop models' are
used (Annex 1). Since farners did not contribute to project costs, the financial rate of return has
not been calculated. However, farmers benefitting directly from project works would have
experienced an increase in income of some 20 percent.
6.12       At full development the annual production2l is estimated to increase by a total of
407,000 tons. This includes 233,000 tons of wheat (SAR 311,000), 92,000 tons of paddy (SAR
126,000), 25,000 tons of oilseeds (SAR 11,000), 9,000 tons of other grains (SAR 37,000) and
48,000 tons of cotton (SAR 47,000). Additional production of sugarcane amounted to 288,000
tons per year. The fact that the cropping pattern "with project"t did not follow that predicted in the
SAR caused some of the production differences (see Annex I, Economic Analysis).
18  *A review of paper by HSMITC", W. Barber, Delhi February 8, 1985.
19  See SAR, Annex 1, paragraph 4, 'Special Purpose Lining Systems".
20  During the field visit the Mission briefly visited this site of an old regulator built in the early 19th centuy
on the upstream reach of the River C-haggar. ID have a proposal to increase the storage behind the weir,
improve regulation, increase irrigated area and provide better communications by upgrading the bridge.
This proposal might be of interest to Bank identification missions. but it should be noted that it is believed
that the water resources of two tributaries (Tangri and Markanda) to the proposal are also proposed to be
used elsewbere.
21  Based on HAU yield estimates.



6.13       Secnd         fits: The implementation of the project has made a number of positive
contributions to secondary benefits and hence to the development of the project area and to the
resources of the state, as shown below:
6.14    . A benefit not identified at appraisa which was directly brought about by the project
was the reduction in the number of "hallars"22. About 3,500 were made redundant by the
realignment and lining of watercourses. This saved a considerable expenditure of energy.
6.15       A large number (2136) of Catte Ghats23 were built alongside the deep and relatively
swiftly flowing branch canals as part of the lining work They are very popular and have come to
form one of the social points of village life.
6.16       Two parts of the project had a direct effect on human resource development: fustly
the training component which provided in-service taining and refresher courses for ID staff
members and new recruits2-4; and secondly by the project providing the opporunity to practce
these skills in "the real world".
6.17       Fanners have been involved in supervision of contractors through a program insdtuted
by HSMITC in which the farmers agree to always have three farmers from their watercourse
suprvg construction. This is said to have improved the standard of watercourse construction.
In one case a group of farmers had forned a contracting firm and contracted with HSMITC to
construct their own watercourse. The work done was excellent and it would seem to be an
initiative to be encouraged.
6.18       Impact on the environment is difficult to quantify, but positive: canal lining and
extension of irrigation ara wili reduce the rate of waterlogging and salinity; the extra cropped area
esults in additional transpiration; and in the sandy lift irrigation areas, provision of both surface
and spinkler irrigation increases the rate at which these desert areas become stabilized and green.
6.19       Change in the technological environment is difficult to judge. In this respect the
project was startng from a low base and it is possible that the foundations having now been laid,
the rate of improvement of the technological environment will increase.
6.20       The project interventions were not targeted at the poorer social groups, as the major
thrust was to improve the efficiency and extent of inigation of all farmers. Village water supplies
will have benefitted some of the landless. The sprinkder component was likely to provide positive
impact on the poorer people being located in the recendy reclaimed desert bordering Rajastban,
which contains a poor population, however the impact of this component was small.
6.21       The project addressed state level development and thus the effect on national
insdtutions was minimaL The national institutions which dealt with the project included Deparent
of Economic Affairs (DEA), Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) and Central Water
22  A 'Jhar is a low-lift device (usually of nudimentay persia-wheel type and powered by one or two oxen,
but sometimes a motorized pump) located on an unlined watercoums and used to lift inigation water to a
higher section of the same watermurse to ensure command of a farmees land.
23   Catle Ghats" are batbing places for cattle usually on both sides of a large canal and are provided with
protection barriers or walls to prevent cattle being caried downstream by the velocity of the water.
24  In fact there has been a moratorium on recitment of junior technica staff into the Irigation Department
since 1983. hence training of now junior staff has not been possible



12
Commission (CWC). Tne Central Soil Salinity Research Istitute (CSSRI) became more involved
wiith the project during its implementadon and, through exchange of information and provision of
data, was the most affected of the national instutions. It is very desirable th this very competent
instution should continue to be encouraged to intest ite i waterlogging, salinity and drainage
in Haryana.
6.22      Local institutions were much more affected. In pardcular HSMIT  is now an efficient
and competent contracting company, with excelent workshops aso serving other states. The
lTigation Department could have benefitted a lot more by taing advantage of the project to trin
staff in new approaches to irrigation. CADA is now an effecdve development organiaon2s. The
division of responsibilities is that the Irrigation Department deal with all matters down to outlet;
HSMr1C deal with watercourses and groundwater i devel    areas and CADA opert in the
less developed areas (mainly liftpump area). This is a sesble system which avoids overapping.
6.23      Project impact on macro growth consisted of the grain surplus provided by Haryana to
the central pool for wheat and rice. This is difficult to measure because the coutribution comes
from both irigated and rainfed land. The contibution for L State of HIayana for the last three
years are:
Year      Rice                 Wheat
............. .(.1,000 Tonnes).
1988       642                 1,266
1989       815                 1,971
1990      1,129                2,591
Source: GOI Statistics Department
The incremental production from the project would represent about 5 percent of the rice
contribution and 9 percent of the wbeat contribution at 1990 levels.
7. Eij  Sustainabft
7.1        he project is expected to maintain acceptable benefits throughout its economic life26,
but benefits will only continue if maintenance is good. Projects which rely upon extensive
construction such as canal lining, which is only a skin laid on earthembne  are more prone
to damage than rigid structures (eg. regulators). Canal lining is unforgiving of poor maintenance.
This is because the occunence of a leak or physical hole in the lining has two effects; it reduces the
beneficial effect of the lining for a large area around the leak and hence the benefits previously
enjoyed, and it causes a foundation instability undemeath, encourging rapid detioratin. This is
25  It should be noted thtCADA was only involved on the peribkey of ayn .
2S a ~~i w                                  CA oya EvLi    
26  For the pmnpose of this wport thde economic lif" of the prgect has been  umd equa to   disconi
period usd In ERR c atons. Iba is. in te ce of dhs proct, 20 yeam



13
acceleraed by the erosive effect of canal water flowing past the eak Continuation of beefits rests
almost entirely upon the standard of construction and regular, good maintenance27.
7.2        At present maintenance is good and financial provision for it is presently at the level
required for sustainability.28 It is important that such provision is continued. Three aspects of
maintenance need some attention:
when lifting gear for regulator gates becomes damaged it must . be repaired
immediatelY;
minor subsidence causing a depression in lining and some cracking should be -attended
to as quickly as possible - there should be an "action gang" at each circle able to move
in and repair such damage as soon as it is noticed; and
some attention should be given to the manner in which grass is prevented from
growing on tile and brick hining joints. Ihegrass roots grow down the sides of the
mortar joints. At present the grass is scraped off, using long handled steel scrapers;
these cut the grass off neatly but tend to leave the roots still embedded in the mortar,
ready to sprout again. An annual treatment at the most appropriate time with a
suitable, safe, herbicide is recommended in addition to the regular scraping.
farmer involvement and Water Users Associations (WUA) are not a major feaue of
the Haryana irrigation system. To some extent this is to be expected in an irrigation
area which has a very long history of watercourse control through the Warabundi
system (paragraph 2.7). Nonetheless such WUAs or Sprinkler Irigation Associations
(SIA) should be encouraged in the lift irrigation areas especially where farmers will be
using sprinkler irrigation. The present arrangements for SIA's were very late in being
instituted and are not strong nor being enthusiastically promoted by the government.
7.3        The shortfall in construction of regulatory structures will affect the overal
performance of the project and is disappointing because the project was a canal modernization
project intended to have a substantial impact on regulation.
7.4        Watercourse maintenance will become a problem because the use of rigid lining
materials upsets, to some extent, the former responsibility of the farmers to mamtain the
watercourses (Haryana Canal and Drainage Act). WhILst the SAR envisaged HSMITC repaining
the lined watercourses on a contract basis, provision has to be made for the funds to pay for the
work. This is a problem given the farmers' reluctance to pay additional fees and the politicians
desire not to insist. At present maintenance is carried out on an ad hoc basis with labor contributed
by farmers, and materials and experise by the HSMrIIC.
7.5        A good deal of training and encouragement has been devoted to maintenance during
the implmentation period, more is needed. It is a subject that should be addressed through the
27 See also issues paragraph 13.11, domestic water supply demands will reduce the net gain of water provided
by this project by about 80 percent by 2012.
28    The water courses are not the subject of a fonnal budget and whflst being maintained at present on
an ad hoc basis by both farmers and govermment, may suffer from lack of forma funding and hence
maintenance in the future.



14
next Bank water resource pwject in Haryana29 by an effecdve operadon and maintenance Iraining
and execution component, alternatively it might be addressed at national level because it is a
problem that is not restricted to Haryana but is of national concern.
8. Bank Perfi=ang
8.1         The main strength of the Bankes performance throughout most of the project cycle has
been its mature and professional approach to supervision, and its ability to respond to the need for
change when parts of the original (appraisal) design were found to need adjustment. This was
reinforced by the very high standard of engineerng supervision provided, which was effective
although field visits were of short duration30.
8.2         Bank performance during project preparation/appraisal stages can be faulted in a
failure to incorporate the experiences of Haryana I which resulted in the inclusion of ATWs;
inadequate specification of the research components (the relevant SAR annex of three pages covers
fifteen subjects); and an inappropriate attempt to pilot-test "improved upstream and downstream
automatic control structures" 31. This was resisted by te Iigation Department and no such gates
were tested. Nevertheless the SAR was overall a competent report which designed apractal and
effective method of increasing cropping intesity and reducing loss of water.
8.3         Some of the pilot works  (i.e the Canal Operation Study and the Groundwater
Recharge Study) were designed with major help from the Bank during implementation. WhL  it
may be necessary and, in fact. essential to leave some design at this stage, it is preferable to design
a component before implementation. This is certainly the case here. Conceptual problem in the final
design could have been avoided if rigorous analysis of the proposal had been carried out at
appraisal.
8.4         Supervsion was well carried out with a flexible approach and a good understanding
of most problems and excellent efforts at solving them. There were fifteen supervision misions
over the period April 1983 to January 1992. Usually missions visited twice a year but this
dropped to once a year in 1989 and 1990. The composition of the missions was predominantly
technical with only one visit from a financial analyst and one by an economist. In view of
recurrent supervision reports about moderate problems with finance and management the inclusion
Of more financial analysts' time and a few visits by a managementspecialist might have helped
29  lbe proposed Water Resources Consolidation Project.
30  Usually missions spent five days in the field, whicb, even aUowing for the closeness to New Delhi and the
compact project area, is too short a perod to supervise an area of about 2 M ha. As a result some items
(particularly R&D) apper to have received lees attention than would have been desirable.
31   Esntially the Neyrtec design. A very good system in appropriate cizumstances. This was probably not
the best place to try such a system since at this stage half the canal system had already been lined on a
uniform flow design and by the dme this pilot test was complete the other half would have been copleted
to the same design. In view of the Banks adverse experience with these same gates in Chambal 11 (soe PCR.
India, Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Irrigation U Project, Credit 1288-N) it would seem that the use of these
gates in an old, established Indian system, such as Haryana, might be reviewed in depth. It shold be bome
in mind that pdority in dealing with regulation problems should be accorded to improving existng system
operation and assessing whether the hydrology of the system allows more sophisticated methods to be
used



15
resolve or ameliorate the problems32. As noted above the superson field visits were of short
duration and Xt staff involved did a very good supervisory job. Had they been allowed more time
it is likely that the subcomponents and smaller components would have benefitted greatly.
8.5        Experience gained from this project provides the following lessons:
(a)    Maintenance of the project works are crucial to the sustainability of the
project. Future projects must address this problem. (and study how, within
Bank and Borrower constraints, a solution may be provided which
guarantees establishment of continued effective maintenance).
(b)    Lessons from a closely related and very relevant project (Haryana I) should
have been more closely studied and analyzed. This would most likely have
avoided the waste of time and resources on ATWs.
(C)    Components such as   ch  and DeomentandTechnal Servces must
have Borrower commitment. Posts in RD&ET are not popular with Irrigation
Departnent engineers. Project design should seek methods to make swh
postings more attractive. This might be remedied by including promotion and
other material advantages.
(d)    A tougher attitude during the implementation period to Haryana's enforcing
supervision criticisms (e.g. reduction in funding in some years, delays in
issue of go-ahead for agricultural census by Haiyana Agicutural University,
delays in purchase of equipment, etc.,) might well have inceased the rate of
progress and shortened the implementation period.
(e)    Given the negative reaction of GOI to expenditure on imported items
(trenching machine, foreign consultants, VHF equipment), it would be
desirable, in future, to provide fully detailed specifications in the SAR and
make the clearances required for purchase either a condition of effectiveness
or dated covenants.
(0     Given GOHrs almost complete embargo on vehicle purchase for use by the
rrigation Department, the vehicles included in future SARs should be fully
specifed and the purchase within 6 months of effectiveness made a condition
of the credit agreement33.
(g)    The general need in fte prevailing conditions to design the project at appraisal
time in such a manner dtat bureaucratic obstacles to implemenation are, so far
as possible, minimized. lTis should include ensuring Borrwver commitmt
to aU components and taing early and firm action to assist the Borrower
when delays occur.
32  See paagrapb 105 regarding re-alloctdon of project funds by DEA.
33  At present te ID has a technc staff of 2,611 engineers, out of an authorized establishment of 2,800.
They have a total of 253 Jeeps and 9 saloons. Of these 35 vehicles are condemned, and al but 53 have
logged more than 160,000 km (43 have achieved more than 300,000 kn). Average vehicle age is about 8
years.



16
(h)    It is customary 34 to use the project implementation indicators listed in the
SAR (normally under the "Project CostsW section) as the nonn for measriing
progress during supervision. There is a large variation in the detail in which
these indicators are given in SARs. In this case the very minimum detail was
given in the SAR. Nonetheless the supervision reports used the SAR format.
There is a danger here in that if the details of each component are not fully
described, supervision wi}l dwell on the obvious indicators (eg. canal lining
done) and overlook individual items (eg. structures associated with the
lining). It is apparent that two methods of dealing with this problem am
possible, the first is to ensure that appraisal teams fully detail the indicators in
the text of the SAR, and the second is for supervision missions to examine
the SAR indicators critically and if not satisfied, set up their own indicators
based on the SAR Detailed Cost Tables.
9. BorroMy rPerfor_ance
9.1       The main strength of the Borrower was the ability to undertk a very large progmm
of design, procurement and construction and maintain a high quality of work. This was partly the
result of the experience gained during Haryana I and demonstrates the advantage of in-work
experience and the desirability of time slice projects. Some problems arose in having procurement
(particularly of imported items) authorized by the Central Government.
9.2       The main weaknesses of the Borrower were a lack of management continuity, cash
flow aiculties in mid-project (state level) and inital under-funding of HSMIlC partly caused by
releasing the farmers from paying for watercourses. The management problem was caused by the
frequent transfers of senior staff -- not by an inherent lack of expertise. Budget cuts ate a familiar
feature of large projects once implementation has commenced, the reasons for this may be
convincing but a Borrower should meet the agreed obligations and should realize that delays in
implementation caused in this way will adversely affect future project benefits. The management
problem was also reflected in the lack of awareness of the need for modernization and of lack of
drive and continuing momentum instilled in the R&DT program.
9.3       The main lessons for the Borrower are:
(a)    The need to keep senior staff in the same post throughout the implementation
period.
(b)    The need to complete a component in order to obtain maximum benefit (e.g.
the stuctures part of the cana lining component).
(c)    The need in future projects to give priority to watercourse lining in pump-lift
areas m order to locally optmize the use of water and provide more equity in
supplies.
(d)    The need to ensure the flow of local funds to the project.
(e)    The need to ensure provision of adequate transport for use of construction,
operation and maintenance staff.
34  'Guidelncs for Preparing Project Completion Reports'. Cental Operatons Department, World Bank, June,
1989, Table 4. Page 8. Annex A.



17
(f)    The comprehension by the Ihigation Department that studies to allow better
system management and to identify methods of dealing with waterlogging
and salinity and disposal arrangements are as important as construction
components. This leads to the need to ensure that the R&DT departmt
should be strongly staffed and encouraged to lead the Irrigation Deparnment
into the future.
1Q. ELgie, Relatognship
10.1      The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was positive and constructive.
The proximity of the project area to the Bank's Resident Mission in New Delhi enabled the
Borrower to keep more closely in touch with the Bank than would normally be possible3S.
10.2      Enquiries to the Borrower about project components included in the SAR, which the
Borrower felt inadvisable, led to a response that because the donor had demanded these items the
Borrower had been reluctant to exclude them.
10.3      The Bank had good working relationships with Central Government Departnents
(DEA, CWC) and with participating institutions (CRRI).
10.4      Coordination between the Irrigation Department and other GOH departments was
required, and generally worked well. However there were difficulties in obtaining approvals from
the Central Government (particularly CWC) for purchasing imported equipment, although their
technical contribution to the activity was minimal.
10.5      Towards the end of the project about SDR15.0 million was canceled from the credit at
the request of DEA but without discussion with GOH. There was a delay of several months before
GOH, at Bank insistence, was informed. During that period GOH committed much of the
amnount on project works. The result of this lack of communication by the Central Goverment
resulted in budgetary embarrassment for the Irrigation Department, an ongoing dispute between the
two parties, and damage to trust and working relationships.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Consulting services, although provided in the SAR, were sparingly used. Only three
consultants were employed, one on systems analysis, one on dynamic modelling, and the third on
ox-cart modernization.
11.2      The ox-cart modemization study was to develop a new ox-cart wheel which would not
danage black-top roads (the traditional type of Haryana cart had steel tired wheels). Appraisal did
not take account that pneumatic tires were used on modem carts and generally preferred by
farmers. Conflicting reports have been received about farmers reaction to "improved ox-carts"
issued for trials. No fmal report and feedback from the Buildings and Roads Departnent have been
received by CRRL
11.3      For systems analysis and dynamic modelling, GOH employed independent
consultants to assist in development of the computer cell and with two studies in 1989 and 1990. A
35  The mission several times came across instances where when the Irrigation Department applied for changes
or assistance in interpretation from both Bank and Cental Government. the Banks response could be
measured in days wbilst that of central government in months.



18
systems model using dBase language and a dynamic canal flow model using "Dwoper"36 were
commenced. The cel has m ide good progress  leaing how to use the "Dwoper model but has
done no i.eld calibration. Field calibration should be carried out in order to ensure that the
"Dwopet' model can be properly tested and then used.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The legal agreements for the project worked well, no real problem arose in connection
with them. GOH complied with all of the covenants, except one which was deleted in October
1987 requiring that 'Haryana shall promptly make adequate arrangements.... to ensure hat current
charges collected annually shall include: .. (b) at least 45 percent on average of the investment
costs amortized over a nine year period for watercourse modernization, including maintenanc
charges of about 3 percent per annum of the watercourse capital cost." This deletion was a
recognition of the reality that such charges were not being levied in other states and thus considered
politicaly not possible in Haryana.
12.2      The SAR was a useful document for the main components and formed a prctical
fiamework for Bank and Borrower during project implementation. It would have been even mome
useful had it contained detailed specifications for equipment to be purchased (drainage trenching
machine, VHF sets) and had specified the studies to be carried out in more depth.
12.3      The data relevant to the PCR were examined both in Washington and New Delhi.
Most of the data required were readily available. Correspondence had been excellently kept and
filed in the Bank's New Delhi Office but Irrigation Department quarterly reports had not been
systematically kept. Difficulty was experienced, as usual, with the consolidation of national and
credit funds and their split into the amountsi spent on each component. During this particular period
n India difficulties occurred in reconciling accounts in sums expressed in US$. SDR, and
Rupees, because of the rapid decline in the value of the Rupee.
13. Issues and the Futue
13.1      This section of the PCR considers issues relevant to preparation of future projects for
Haryana and its adjoining states. Some of these comments apply to India as a whole.
13.2     Issue No.1: Acceptance of ChangCe. Results of this project in terms of modeniion
of irrigation have been disappointing. The targets of canal lining and an increase of irrigated ara
have been achieved, but this depended upon using familiar techniques. Wherever the project
attempted to bring about change from what is known or widely practiced, little happened (e.g.
modemization of canal structures and regulation equipment, radial gate, etc., and RD&T Unit
studies on informal canal operation and regulations).
13.3      Several hypothesis can be advanced for this reaction; it could be the effect of:
-      difficulty of organizing the execution of items which impinge on other
Irrigation Departnent section's responsibilities;
-      lack of exposure to design of modem regulating structures;
-      a general philosophy that if a procedure works, even if inefficient, it is not
worth the effort to change it;
36  Dynamic model developed by U.S. National Weather Service.



19
-       lack of suitable traning both factual and inspirational;
-       overworked design circle.
Whatever the cause, the forthcoming project preparation teams need to identify these constraints
and to take them into account in designing the project. It is the missions view uat an essential start
to solving this problem is that the appraisal process should obtain commitment for the changes and
that staff changes should be kept to a minimum. The mission also thinks that selected design
engineers who would be required t sta in their pr9je  Posts for the pmject   od should be sent
abroad to study and learn the design aspects of modem structures (U.S.A., Britain, the
Netherlands, Germany).
13.4       Issue 2- System   eraton. The current basis of rotated canals and Warabundi is not
fully enforced. It is apparent that though new, lined watercourses, had been provided, the
necssary "new" warabundi has not always been arranged and that it ould be very difficult to
chage ncetheuntevisdJA rabundi becatne V=cdgatL
13.5       It is difficult to properly operate the canal system  without efficient regulating
structures. The position about building these has been described earlier (paragraph 6.3). The
apparent lack of awareness of the importance of these structures is indicative of the lack of
appreciation of the need for good operation in order to achieve maximum return to water.
13.6       Similar lack of awareness and drive was noticeable in the approach to operational
studies for dynamic canal regulation, canal system management, and computerized water
scheduling37.
13.7       Future design of projects must reemphasize systems operation and also ensure that
supervision is carried out in a most detailed manner.
13.8       Issue  No. 3: Solution of the Three-State Drainage and Disposal Problem and the
Urgent Need to Model the Whole Drainage System. The drainage problem (described in
paragraphs 2.8 and 2.9)38 is general and involves Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. Eventually a
common disposal system will be needed after localized measures have been exploited. Any wa_
resource proect repared for Haryana must take account of this problem and deal with it as a
matter of the highest priorit.
13.9       Issue No. 4:  t Type of Drainage to be Used. Work was done on both verdcal
(wells) and horizontal drainage (tiles), but the results, whilst indicating that both could be used,
were not successful in providing the cost and technical parauneters necessary for planning, and
decisions on timing, and type of installation. Any water esource project ppared for these states
must take account of this problem and help by creating studies to assist in identifying a solution
37   he Irrigation Department is not short of staff, the technical establishment (in position) includes 2051
engineers or about one engineer per 1,600 ha cultivable command area (CCA)- a very generous overall
allowance.
38 For a fuller description of this subject see "TIhe Rising Water Table and Development of Water Logging in
Northwestem India' (a Drainage Subsector Report), W. Barber, South Asia Projects Department, Irigation
II Division, July 15, 1985 and also 'Land Drainage and Reclamation". Irrigation Sector Review, L.K.
Smedema, Euroconsult, Armahem, Netherlands, for World Bank, India Department, March 1990.



20
(t  OpgeXg    wesi  dia Danage S              is a start in tIis direction. and would have bn
tPmmh enhanced if dt  adee   from r sn iZ    th eXtn an d giad at a0pial)
13.10      Isue NH. 5; de Need froeign   ertise. Waterlogging and salnity problems ax
relatively new to India, and the expertise required to plan remedial actions is not available. It is
essential that experts be provided to concemed institutions to assist with planning. In addition,
study tours for design and monitoring staff, who would be reouired to sta in thi Ut for the
Qjc pedgrioLshould be funded for these staff to visit countries which are experienced in dealig
with the problem (Australia, Egypt, Pakdstan, USA). Any water resource project prepared for
Harvana or oter concerned states must orovid  he minimum  racticable foreien input and the
mainrum lea                  tndian instutin;;
13.11     Issue No. 6: The Problem of Domestic Water Supply At present domestic demand is
about 7 percent of irrigation supplies and demand at 2012 is estimated to be about 15  rcent of
supplies. The estimated increase in demand over the next twenty years rpm,nt ahQi.tiJprcnt
of te ,estimated water saving provided by this project. Whist there will be some return of this
water as sulage (mainly to groundwater and probably high in dissolved solids), water is lost from
the gravity system and a good deal will contribute to the saline watertable areas where it cannot
easily be reused for irrigation. AWy water resource roiect repad for Haryana must be aware of
this need and design a proiect that takes account of and orovides for the future domestic water
suDply ne  of the 
13.12     Issue No. 7: The Problem ogf ShortPost I,ncumbency. A factor of particular relevance
to the limited success of the institutional components of the project was the frequent changes of
incumbent in senior posts of the technical line departments. For example the Engineer-in-Chief
(EIC) post had five changes of incumbents in the period May 1989 to July 1992 (average
incumbency about 7 months), these changes related to three engineers - that is the EIC was being
posted back and forth (generally between ID and HSMITC but occasionally including CADA).
Similarly there were six changes at Chief Engineer level in the Irigation Dqnrte   in the period
May 1989 to February 1992. It is obviously undesirable that such short-term postings should
occur. Future project praton missions swold fte1w if some                           d
this situation could not be devised.
13.13     Lssye No. 8: Viability of Sprinlder Irri ation. In view of the slow implementation of
the Sprinkler Irrigation Associations (SIAs) and their perceived necessity for effective use of
communally-owned overhead irrigation sets, thej    as ti, whether spinlde irrigadon is viable
a.s utainable basis shoul be examined and reported upon in detail in the forthcoming Hyana
V IRCP.
13.14     Issue No. 9; Cost Recovery for Works Maintenance. Maintenance of lined
watercour  raises the issue of farners' payment for such works, and the further issue of whether
it is correct tc charge farmers for expenditure on wodrs which the farmers did not request. This
issue needs lobe solved by the appraisal mission for th,e WRCP. Such examination should
consider the policy with regard to watercourse lining charges in neighboring provinces (Utwar
Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan). In addition the mission should determine whether it is ethical to force
39 NwNwhcst Drainage Project", Draft final report, 3 Volumes, Water and Power Consultancy Services (O)
Limited, New Delhi, India, May, 1992.
40  It should be noted that tbe Indo-Netherlands Collaboradve Project working through the CSSRI at Kal,
Haryana, is a very positive example of technology exchange on this subject at national level which will
undoubtedly be of assistance to Haryana. However, assistance is also required to be injected at state
institutional level.



21
farmers to pay for works they did not request, and lay down a method of consultaion with farmers
to decide which groups would support lining and give a guarantee to pay for the maintenance in the
forthcoming project
13.15     Issue No. 10: Use of Sea= Water Suntiesbv Pumpin or Through GravtM.m
oMMUt  te use of scarce water                   tU,D hil pmth irueh    tv An
ihe plains) needs to be resolved. The WRCP apprsal mission should examine this issue in detail
and effect a solution by establishing values for snd quantfying the environmental benefits
obtained, the effect of reduced seepage by sing sprinlers and the loss of percolation water to the
saline water undedying the hill areas. In addition the socia benefits of setding the previously semi-
nomadic gypsies in the hill areas should be established.
L,.fli



22
PAIRT4II
PRECT REr FQ  BOa:WtERStS PMRSPECTIVE
Confirnation of Adequacy and Accuracy of
infoz=atiop in Part I end III.
1.1     Information contained in Part T and Part III have
been verified and ound to be generally satisfactory.
Corrections where requited based on the facts have been made
in 'Red Ink' for consideration.
2.       Evaluation of Ban'-s perfroxrance during project
evoluticn !snd iUnP1leentariA2.
:2,1     In order to alleviate poverty  specially in the
Rural a:eas, GOI gave prioxit7 to projects for increasing
production and creating productive amplo,inent. Recognising
Agriculture Projection levels in the irrigated areas consider-
ably lower than the potential for a number of reasons, this
project was prepared jointly by GOH and Centzal Water Commissio.
001. The project focused on modernisaticn ofr Shara and IJC
Canal Svstts, improving conveyance, distribution and operatio=
efficiencies of these systens, aun;enting Drinking Water
Supp4lies.
2.2      The agreement 'or t'he project was signed on February
-23, 1963 and it was..taken up in continuation .of Haryana
Irrigation & CAD Project ( Cr. 843mIN) i.e. phase-I Project.
Haryana Irrigation Project II also comprised of several
components like the phase-X.
2.3      Bank's performance has been excellent throughout the
implementation period of the project. The Bank}cs representative:
were highly professional and gave GOI/GOH officers sufficient
guidance in successful ctnpletion of the project. Response of
the Bank to the problems referred by GOH was invariably prompt
and constructive whiCh helped in achieving the physical
targets and objectives of the project.
.. .2



23
2.t4     Dur'iZg tlle 'nPleentaton of the pcojectBank oi!cia
made several visiws to the project and contacted GOH and proj5
of fic4rs and gave suggestions for proper execution of the work.
Project scope was changed from time to time & major increases
were made in village wa-er supply and village access r-ads Wi$
the suppoct of the Bank.
2.5      Sucaeestions :
a)    On the basis of the experience gainedit is
suggested for consideration of the Sank to allo
procu-ement of certain eqipnent/vehicles for
which the GOH & GO! have a Rate Contzact Agreement
with the suppliers. These agreements are finalised
after inviting local competitive biddings.
b)    Bank may als consider reimbursmnent of land
and establizIment expenses on the project which
will help in mitigating the financial constraints
generally wperienced by the project.
3,      Evaluation of Borrowers' Own performance during
the Project Evrolution & !mnlementation,
3.1    Coparison of the Appraisal and closing date estlnatec
indicate that the irrigated area after completion of the
project has increased by 1,74,600 Ha. inspite of the fact
that availability of water in the closing year was less by
about 2,38,000 Cusecs days. This has been possible due to
Impr oved distribution systen and better water man agiient under
the project.
3.2     The project was taken in hand in continuation of Harya
zrrigation & CAD Project (Credit 843-:M) to give further impet
to irrigation developnent. As per the agreement with the World
Dank  the project should have been canpleted byHarch;1988.
The delay in completion was due to various reasons mentioned
below:s
a) Shortage of local funding during certain period.
b) Continued d:ought conditions lasting four years
which was followed by centuary's worst floods of
1988.
c) Past Appreciation of Echange rate.
d) General price rise.



24
3.3    Undulating command areas of lift schenes having
pezmeable soils are best suited fos sptin]kle: irtigation.
Steps have been initiated to hand over CM of the SprinkleJ
to the beneficiaries.
3.4     Standard of construction of lined water courses
has improved due to involvement of farmers in the supervis:
of the work.
4.      Assessment of Bank.Borrower Relationship during
Prol ect ;221ementation.
Relationship bet:ween the Bank and the project
officers was good and effective in all respects.



25
CD14{;UTS ON  cRAE' PDJEC  COMPLET N REPO I(PCa)
OF MARYrAIA IRR=ATON_II PRJ:-C^ (Ca. 1319-lU)
Ca) Pniert Deslan & OeranisaLt
Para 8(i) While appreciatig that the project was generally successful
it is stated that "The components involving less attractive
staff postings such as training and research. and those which
required specialist knowledge NOT- FULLY AVAILALE In InDIA
(Sprinkler irrigation, water logging and salinity pilot
studles and planning drainage development) were lesu
successfult.
The observation that specialist knowledge in above spheres
is not available ln India is not true. It is observed that
the prgress on spriinkler irrigation is 80% and t-he Bank's
Supervision Mission Report dt. 31-1-92 has even appreciated
the progress made onxthis component vide para 21. It is also
to be mentioned that-enough expertise is available in India
in -Water logging, salinity and drainage aspects.
Para 8(i1)Furtliri it is-tated "Those-components which were not thouaht
thcouah (-ATW's Ox-Cart Dewelopment) did least well.
*43omments
The chagge that these components were not TSItX-ir TN)UGH
is also-firt correct because they were well planned and
properly executed as is .m   out from the periodic dorld Bank
Missions reports. This needs rewording.



26
(B) P ro iect !mDlement ati n
?cra 1   Giving the-. reasons for delay In Iplementationtit is stated
. elay also occurred whenever clearance had to be obtained
from Central gQternment, this mainly related to purchase of
izqported goods'.
aQmtnents
It is our considered op&pion that the delay in import clearancO
was mainly contributed by Hlaryana State Minor Irrigation and
Tubewell Corporatlon, the agency which had moted the import
proposal. This 4s evident from the fact -that after the
essentialities for this Import was certified by CtIC in July.
=SB 1985 and 0TD clearance conveyed to HS14tC In November
1985. the HSM3:C explained to CQC only in August 1969 ile.
'after a gap of 3 years and 5 mnths, that the already clearei
proposal could not be implemented because repeated and
exhausttive enquiries had to be made f om various agencies at
international level and that the WTD clearance should be
got revalidated by CGC. There was also a delay in supply of
reeiiant information by-Haryana authorities.  toreover, there
was a lack of ooordination amongst'different formatlons of
Haryana :rrigation Deptt. as the case was handled by ISJC
initially, by Haz:yana Irrigation Research & Training Institute
(HMI), Kurukshetra later on and by Chief Engineer(R&1$,finally*
. ThO revaldation of WTD clearance was taken up by CEC with
DBTD which took some time. t'eanwhile another similar proposal
for import of drainage trenching machine was received from
Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Department. As the concerned
project report showing provision for this equipment ha.4 earlier



27
resources after consulting lare faunbec of manufactuces: and
cepocts on use of this equipmnt wcking undec silac
condition in Pakistan and other countcris.
parC      It is stated that There was an nability to keep construction
coherent Sn woe cases llned watec CoUrse weOce constcUted
-on unlined canals and vice.-vergao.
it is not understood how could this happen. This needs to be
substantiated by giving specific reaches. Hwever* State
Govt. may clarity the position.
(C) ,ieet Rit1onshi
Para 4   ?her veto difficulties in obtalnng approvals f wm Central
Govt. (particularcly  O4C) for pucchasing imported equipment
altbougb their technical contribution to the activity was
minimL
-Same a given -n parc I w. Pxoject_ ;mp entation" at (8)
ca 5   u!4wards the end of the pcoject about US $S 119 M was
cancelled fwum the prject credit, without dlscussion with
a00f at the request of OFb Tbere was a delay of several
ucuths before GOH wee informed (at Bank Insistence) and
during this period GOH ummnitted much of the auunt On
pIDject works. the result of tt.is lack of comunicatlOn by
centcal govt. Is budgetacy eubacrassment for the IDM an
ongoing dispute between the two partles and damage to trust
and wockig relationsh1p.



28
This is Impoctant. DEA should look into this observ.dtion.
(a)   ssues andthe Putu re
Issue No 1        a    f eharhae
It Is stated that "Results of this pcoject in terms of moderni-
sation of irrigation have been disappointing
whezeer the project attengted to bring about change from what
ia 'known as widely practised, little happened (eg. mdernisation
of canal structumes,regulation equipment, radial gate etc. an-d
RXU studie. oninformal canal operation and regulations).
The Bank fucthei recommends that selected design engineers
who would be required to stay in their pcoject posts for the
project peciod should be sent abroad to study and learn the
design aspcts of modern structures".
Onuwents
'The reasonsfoc non-acceptance of change attemted to be bcought
by the project are not agreeable. The Govt. of Haryana and CG^C
have suffic4ent -expertise to bring out thecqhanges ceferrei to
in the PCM Howeveri these could not be achieved due to in-
sufficient closure periods of the channels. Regarding trainings,
It is  ported by State Govt. that a core and guest faculty In
HIVI and Kurceshetra has been established for sending some
project engineers abroad.



29
Issue No-5  Solution of the three-state drainage and disposal problem
and the u:gent need to model the whole drainage system.
*   -The North-West Drainage Studies have already been
coap'leted by WAPCOS The same. have been submitted In
)Earch 1993. The report has suggested certain solutions
for the drainage problem after due interaction with the
once=ed State Govts.-
ZsIa* 210.4 ?e1-- 2f RAlnie to be used
Work was cfbe on both vertical(wtells) and horizontal
4cainage(tiles) but the results whilst indic.ating that
both could be used were not successful in provi3ing the
cst and technical parameters necessary for planning and
dcisions on timing and type of installation.
-s I
The pilot projects which have been taken up by the state
Govt. definitely have provided technical parameters for
Viability. However* cost-effectiveness can rif be
.Mcked out on the basis of pilot projects. For this, a
full scale pcoject has to be taken up.
*   ~~~   ,ee6fo =FOC2eig  Exnertise
Water_loggW2g and salinity problems are relatively new
to Iidia and the expertise required to plan remclial
*        actions is not available.



30
water logg and salinity pmlems are not ne. to India.
These have been successfully tackelej in some parts of the
countiy and sufficient technical know-how and expcrtiso is
available. TtWse culd not be taken up at the large 3cale
due to paucity of funds and order of the pcrority.
(0a P1@ect Results
Para 1  lIt is stated that uThere is some &ubt about tlhc actual
amunt of water saving taking place. This has been resolved
so far as possiOle whilst completing this report. It Is
unllkely that a fully accurate fiture can ever be isolated
because of the nuaber of parameters Involved (Raitifall.
river flows. cropping pattern, farmer's choice in allocating
water).
State G6vt. in their quarterly progress report for -quarter
-  ending -,A7eu-1991 -have -clarified on .this Assueoi as follovs:
"Tbere is a saving of 1210 CS in the 11 Phase. The
1rtigatlon has increased from 1865 th.ha. in 19f33
to about 2000 th.ha. in 1990. Thq other a&antagus
achieved ares
1. -Reduction in maintenance cost.



31
2) Reduction in traveY t4m  from head to tail.
ObsegyatSons made In different canals show that
it has been reducedff4om 8.701. to 20.83,4 in
longer distr bbutaries and f om 43.756 to S3; In
*shbcter canals.
3). Reduction in X-sectional area after lining
of channels has resulted in percentage
saVing of 7.8% to 44.0 %.
4)  Saving of land widthtfrom 16.67X  to 25.0, after
lining of channels.



32
PART III
L Related Bank Loans and Credits
Lss/CiGdit Mthe              Pupo                        Datc od           Swi               Cnme
Cdit 843-Ift                 To inwrease agruievtura     August 197       Poet  cl           Pojet met mt
H an Irigation Pwjiect       production and ialeviate                     August 31,1983,    of its prescribed
(USS111 M)                   water loggng by reduction of                 but aU physical     agets except
canal and water course                       constuctiod,      those dependent
seepae. ncasd VW of                          (except Credit     upon Credt.
pounduater and                               itetits) c        on-f arm  deve-
modernization of irrigaion                   b Feby  t    28,   l         .opment(0FD)
Roads, war spplyand                          1983
medsessinwctudee&   -                             r?ached  702
ostarget.
Credit 889oN                  o sustain actad             bard 29, I79.   Project dosed      Prject M  mmt
Punpb oui  Projet            production by reducing                       luac 30, 86        of its precrbd
(USS29 M)                    lo    Of water from Canals                   adter a two-yar    t w
and water courses                            etcnio             course lninig ws
delayed, but
uotually
exceeded tapt
by 2S%.
Crdit 1177-lIt               To increase agricultural    September 1981   Project closed     Project met its
Madhy PrAdesh Maor           production by completing                      iune 30Q1991      targs in tems
rigtion Proiect              two dms, laing of main and                   having been        of phpcal
(SDR 1952 14)                disributary canals and soae                  extended four      constructio
watr courses and                             Years in all       Peet
_mo     ation of control                                        itionis ar
Structures.                                                    thu Wm eiieut
opeation and
maintenane the
project wil be a
sucess.
Credit 5624                  To increse agricultural     lune 197         Proect cosed       most prescribed
MY. Chambal Command  em   prodution and farm iux_                         lAin 30. 196T      project wo
Develpmet Pject              throuh the upading (                         after a twoye      eceeded targets,
(US4. M)                     irrigation bdtlies and                       extesin            but OPD woas
provision of dainag, OFD                                       52% beow tare
woks and rural roads in the                                     Proec
COambal Project in Madhya                                      considerd a
Pradesh.                                                       failure on Wter
management
Credit 1288-IN               ImpDvment of canal          August 1982      Project closed     Poect net most
Chbal (Madhy Pradesh)        conynce and daina                            March 31 1989,    of its targets for
Iri  ion a Prajet            s    ,tem  more equitable                    having been        seepae contrl
(SDR 276 M)                  irrigation supplies, some                    extended two       but did not doso
additional oad                               Ya                on coal
regulation woeA&
frmradste and
twalk te
-~~~~~~~h of
ibro  hi



33
2. Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned        Date Revised        Actual Date
Identification &    na.                 n.a.                1982
Prepartion
Appraisal Mission   April 1982          -                   April-May 1982
Credit              n.a.                n.a.                December, 1982
Negotiations
Board Approval    -                                         .25 Januaxy. 1983
Credit Signature                        -23 Febmary, 1983
Credit                                                      1 April, 1983
Effectiveness
Credit Closing      31 March, 1988      31 March, 1989      31 March, 1992
31 March, 1990
31 March, 1991
Credit Completion                                           31 July, 1992
Comments: Delayed implementation, slowed disbursements and some national
funding difficulties reslted in a four year extension ci the credit closing date to 31
March 1992, to enable extended scope of project works to be completed and to
draw down as far as possible funds available in the credit. The last disbursement
was made on April 29, 1992.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements (US$ Equivalent)
DRDW/DA  FI Yew  190   14  18    186   17   13    139  199   1991   IM92
ApprisalEstimate    4S   34.0  77.1  1263  i5s
Reised Esdmate                           1083  124.1  144D  149.1  I5S.9  14S2
Actul            4.   2    44J   72.7  9L1   106.0  110.  124.4  L373  14*
Actud as % of    94   70   58    S7    61
Appns  umat
s9fRewined                               84    8S    77    83    88    10
Da d F nal Disbuem  . April 29, 1992
5o= WozM Bk, Mm DdbL Month di_menz pesfatmaixe p-,



34
4. Project Implementation
Nialudless                        Uskt        Appa" lS          vied      Al as  Acuu   i
ldadmmt    Uadaak .        as Munk    of RVA"ha
ModernAisa  of Cmna"l                            20            2500           27             10
Mdion of WatW                      a              2300          2S.92         2500           1p
Cor
Augmemao Tcabefl                                    32S            so
-0jU0                                                                         50           lOS
-Dcow                                                                          soQ.         tO
.-&C'glaed                                                                      6            12
Sp%ukledt L*gai                 N  (set)            10            10             9            97
Vlw at Sp* Scms    No of                            360    700b/    700                      10
Vill    AM   Roads                km             L96.0         3630          WM               s
TwmivmlniRsAvbt &                Pa. MK            =1         97.40 c/         96.          9941
j/Modunmiu of cana compoe  incuds lig of bmch disbty and mino c_anas i Shak  anh
WYC Cal Sysm. Im met ad modrizio of caqnmutu  and _ulas eupmnt,. nd
adon ofa    * twao wayadionetob pre canalsaztsubcapon.. Canlwis
*acl d u"  nd minor) linig and souue modat   phyl quaies dt I   t mabl
separatel. Canclation of AuWentadoa tubewal (ATWs) constiuctio in *mew of S complete (o a
todatl .3)   sapeed ta aper fth Arocititm,IOc            lte fm ML Ube  AU"  Dlecmc Iadia Department,
Mr. Kazao==ouluj-:RP.                   GOHadcuildAT%W pro                 duetocchronicpoe ompsad
fud t    unconomi  a_d diu  to mang In tim  of scm  wAd u            b  powe suppl
Co       e    _    _ sSmica suboompnnes  n. filn_ance  Phys    qundte wae     Ie pdy due to minw cd a
inthe scope at wo    afeed t a p     - amedmen t shdule 2 of dO.    The  quant   wr subsequently
evie in Mr. JJL DuaSIP GOS rs lette of anay 2% IM  to Mr. N.K Suo. Add    SknOay
DIA. GOO
b/Appram t tmght
Sepmber1. 1990 lter w           ivovd amndmen to Put E of Scbed      2w Develpme  Credt
Agseamn (OCA) Tb  amendme   ea  as follom   COvsrucioa of abou 213vqege ev             olies  sCheme   to
serve about 700 vlae in te Pje  And.'
q/ Cedit alcation n per Sank's Jamay A  19 leer   DAu    Rasesreb an Devlopment Trainn
Tecncl Suvie ad M ad E   S   an SDR3.i5 million.
4lAruoun spen uP t Ath fina projec cloig dat In MardiU 31,99 rupeseOte abou E* pOysia
P mp_etion of Torainiag   R uad D Compocut
$ouve. rpto  Departm, CGovment of Hayan   and  the World  Bank    New t Delhi Office.



35
S. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost (USS Millon Equivalent)
...  E- ia_ ....   ... R        S    _ ....   ..... A"...
Lawn  Fomip   Told   lowt  Foaip   TOWi  lost  Fmsp    Tod
Cana Modemnisaiton       83au     14.4   962   149.1      00   149.1  142.4      0.0   142
Wateuours Medcziti       6S.1      7.2   723      82       0.0    9.2   7S.1       OQ     71
Aupeowon TabowUs          1.7      32   1U9       W        Q 0.0       . 08       0*       0*
Spii.r lnipdio            Ii       0.     25      34       OA      4      22      0*       2
vfpWatSuppy               19.      4.1   2&1    32.2       00    322    29.1       OD     2.1
VIDag Aesas Roads         43       1.     13      A        0Q     TA      57      an O     5.7
R&D and Tmnn              5.0      10             as 8 S   0QO   5        5J   O           S
as Cot                 1913      31.5   2S
Phica CGontinnacies     13       22    155
Pnce Contingences       52.9     U6    61.S
ToWS Pmjec coo                  413   3OQ     33              ma    261S               26L
a/ Dhesk4own into bus cma is aic available for tbs Revisd Bstimaft
3. Project Fiamcing    (US$ Million Equivalent)
.....        e  .... ............ Fal a/
uSSM               (M)         uSSM               ()
WDA (Total)                              150.             500           144.8           5S3
Civi Works                                17                             140.7
Equipment & Vehicles                       82                              0.1
Techkal Senrices                           43                              4.0
Unalocatd                                  48
DomestLc                                 1503             S0.            117.0           44.7
Totd ProjeCt Cost                        3003            1000            261.             100
Soe: For Plnned F         _ig page 84 of SAR
a/ To 31 Match, 1992.



36
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                       Appraisal    Estimate at
Estmate   Closing Date
Increased Irigated Areas (ha)                      245,000        174,600
Increased Foodgrain Production  tons)                  437            334
Increased Oilseed Production ('O tons)                  lt            25
Increased Cotton Production ('000 tons)                 47            48
Value Added (1992 Rs. M) a/                1,450         20SS
IncreasdFarm Incomes (4 ha Holding - Rs)               n.a.         3,2
a/ Includes all incremental production.
b/ An increase in net farmn income of 8%.



37
B. Economic Impact a/
Indicator                                           Appras  Estimate               ICR Esimate
ERR Overa  Project (all costs)                               29%                       33%  b/
Undelying Assumptions
Dscunt Period (Years)                                         20                          20
Standard Couvaeon Factor (SCF)                                03                         08
Details in Anne  1.
b/ 17% if SAR yield estimates used, See Annex 1
C. Studies
Study               Prane aDefned at ib         Status
Impwved desip       GOH to develop new or       Standards being followed by   A few C-os replation
standurds of waur    ipovd design sgandard      ID ar those gren in        sructures were modemized
et       fai        for moenizaion of canal    Cetua Dtsip  0         _tion   ude the prolee
(SAR pan 39)        and watr regulti            Hand Book rcad with those
failties                   bomed by the Bureu of
kdina StadadLr
anklertIripo        TeSti  dfferat types of     lmrved and auated          Improved Sprinkers not 
(SAR pan 3.)        SprInerequipeenaand         (Centre-pNot e.) Sprik ltested.
dewlap procedures fo       Sytms id id    A pilot
tabdishingand  antaii      stud in SpInkler I tn
effec   farmers            manamemet   as oducted
IwolvemeaL                 from Apicturltu   PinanCO
CoponioN Bombay. Tbe
Study Report nld
proposas for aeating
awarens amongt th
Sprinlder Irdgator for thei
effective partian at
P i  s .   4
iplemenatio, and OhM
taes of sprklerrsm
Srnler Irigo        Afterav Can   erional  M             frequent   edu  for   None
(A R par 3Al)       p        fot suapply of wter    water Spp to spgne
to sprinkers One           scheme not yet tested.
fequet sceu  wud be
0e11ed.
Srinkle ahio        Fum=  Icipatiofr            Sprinkler I tion           NelIgobls fan
(SAR  pase 3A4)     00sbii  ad maintesafn    Aneis            (SIA) bh
Suinkles scema.            been fmIn ano the 97
sr rinler SW in eae a
on aLud remmIn
ea9eadluan ooM  nd
ato ser  as Advluq
Committe hor 6ekit
suabl ie   p I'ud



1   1ii . I    I'il  ,tll
:itIllIxl!



39
Study             lurpose ea Defis   at te    SU"                   mpdat Study          Comme
Appwo
Pilot War         Applying new. mor          Stuy sated in       -T   dta gatd           Preferti
Management Ar    effi t canal sysm           19844S on three       (n the pilot and      preetenrined
(SAR pa  35)    opastina produr              shakn Main ine        cental distributares    schedule cun  be
better matched to moder    tail syten, damput,  indicate that (i)      expatnded ner the
rquema  for Cmal           J*AQd and Givram    Crp yields Qn both    entite Daba avd
Commands where Noarth      oistbutaies in       ae samc (i)  Ptarmae    WYC Ca(a Systems
Wesem  Serms of            Khardf 198S Jahod    a    ppy with the      On shal  ae
waead for wator            Wm repaced by        rlable pdtetermianed teleass ao inve
dirbuton amrontgsr         Ihna                 Oid schedul; (iii)     consideation. for
rigtot of a ca   outlt     distbuty.            Pefeontial supplies    hydropm
i beig follawd and        Sabsequeydy             e made to pilot      generation-wile an
dwing periods of low       are was incrsed      distributares sx       WYCsppe qv
supply canals are operated    to 60,000 and 120I000  compard to the ras    frm  16,000 In kbif
an changing priority turms    ha in 1985.86 and  (iv) Under both       to 200 cc dur
Ufect of ed  and           19864 rpevy.   sstems farmers hae    RabL A dsk sdy
predetermined Cana supply  to addition to 1     to supplmaent Canal    needs to be atempted
in the cropping pattern and   Piot Channel of   fOs with groud         fot th two cnd
yiels was also to be       st ud     6 Contol   water.                 system on improed
studied. nput of asswd     Channel wer as                              seeduin basd om
supply wa condeed as an   monitored for soco-                          the last now  da1a to
incentive to an irgato ont   econmic impat of                          test fesibili of its
a caa for arangng other   predetermined canal                          application for the
inputs and plan farming in    water supply                             entire commuands af
advane                     schedulc. rhe study                        the two systemt
is reportd to have
been discontinued
frm  Rabi 1990-9L
Vomttiue or       To hep remo  t             Volumeti or           Wate ch       billed  W he study commenced
Wawametie         ctraint in the presnt      Wariitc system        otr the two WYC       about more than 16
wat cha           stem  of water chaes by    was adopted on        system dcannels have    yas ago, me
steas study (SAR   crop accoding to the arca  espednmental basis  bncresed. On the       problem being bced
p   357)          irrigated which has no     on Softe doituy   thee  dakra-e             should be  imo  .' by
direct relationship to the  of Bbakm Canal      channlds of the study   carring out the
amount of water acualy     system in 1976. Fme   area chares for the   rquied hngs in
deve   to a bnaer. TMe    moe irigation         water supply on       the Act so that the
main pwpose of the stdy    Channels - 3 an      walumetric basis hv    sudy doesv no rmain
is that under the North     bakta and 2 oan     decreased. ration    incndcui
Went Warabandi system      WYC ae  included    Deparent has listed
each farmer would pay for   in the study during  both minus and plus
wat according to the       1982.                points for the study.
amount of time when bh                          Irigtion Depart
actuay receives wat La.                         plan to remove the
accdig to the number of                         problem in
irnis he receives.                              vumetc sstam by
ammeling the Cal



40
Study                          Purpoxse  Defied at the    Sta"                      mat Of Study
Other Studie and EAperiments    Other topics of studics and   a) Siodata of al ID
(SAR pa  353 Annex 1)         expeziments which would    Officers being caected for
be orWnied amd supported   better nmagement,
under the project thorougnuational aalyis nd
RMU include:              manpower needs.
management and            b) Plot sudics ate being  Impact stage no yt
orpaizational analysis and   coanducted by           reached for (a) and (b).
manpower needs 4i tht     Director/Apo EconfmiCS
Irtiptoa Depannnt         at Hisr.
based on proected         c) Coputer pgamme         data yet to be anasd (c)
opetional rquirements    (ENrERLOG) and
&ad performance           CUMDLOG dveloped by
objectives: comand area    Dr. SG. Naraynamuny and
capacity fact  used *for   computer promme E22
cal operaio, and actual  PRO developed in
recored water deliveries  Computer Appliatin Cel
compared to estimated     of ID for entedag data on
cop waer use during the    8 daily indent/discag of
ason for actual and      dcanels in the computer
optimum crpn patterns   and data frm Dec. 1989
umder alterstive war        wards (up to May, 1992)
decvey pattens            loaded.
Efficient Operation &         Efficient brigation system  Proformas have been      Proformas dvised for
Management of higption         Operation & Managament   devised and included in the   M&E reporting. Scope for
Syteam (SA  pau  5.17, Annex    require dose monitoring of  report Tvaluation of    the use of prforas in ID
1  :)                         the perfonrance and        Benefits from             can be considerd.
guar eporting of          Modernation of Cal
prfoma    relts           Phase-, Oct 199, and ae
R)T  woud design, tt    gv  at Annex NM  1,2,3,6
and impleent an           ad 8 of the rpot
Improued management
information and rpotng
system which would indude
water deley target,
achevent, Irrigated
eas, Yi4ds, fandul
expenditure and rcet



41
Study                         ?rpt= as Defind at the    Ste                       k c of Sady
Dynamic Regulation            Study would anatyse the   This study was taken up in   lrigptlon Depamnmt
(SAR, pag 101,                feas4bility and potentil  Computer Application Cell  hopes to continue the
paaa 2, Annexute4-)           benefit of applying dynamic  (CAC) of Computer      study. No impact yest.
canal reguation technoloV    Dircorate also and initial
to Hasyana Canal System.   difficulties were felt both
This study has been       by CAC and CWPRs Pune
entrusted to CWPRS Pun.  is simulating the
and objective af the work    Dwoper/Network softwae
ae:                       though Mr. Albinson of
a. To test the vario     World BsanL
features built into the
Dwopr/jNtwok Software   On trceipt of advice from
provided to CWPRs wbich   Poft Lany through Mr.
ate appileab for studying   Albinson of World Bank
dynamic flows in irrigation   indepent trials wer
canals sytems. for desip  made both in the CAC
and operational pupos.    IBHO, Haryana as well as
b. To test the model on a    at Ceatral Water and
repestation of 8MB in    Power Researcb Stations
Haryana and, to          (CWPRS) at Pune and the
demonstrate how it can be   problms earlier
used for a practical     encountered in simulation
application arising in    of the distributaries and
operation of a canal      falls have been overcome
system.                   successuly.
e. To prepam a detailed
documentation on the use    The Computer application
Of thc software fof the  cell has succssfuly
above purposes, for       completed the independent
dsemination a long State  trial runs of 9 fanls and
rrigation Dept and train    simulation of canal network
swlected Hupna Irgtion    having S falls and 7
DepL engneets on use of    disuibutaries on PC-AT
the software.              mputer. Furthe work at
CAC computer could not
be done due to the
linitation of the capacity of
the computer.
As per information
received from Punt, the
CWPRs has made
suacessful runs of network
with 9 falls and 32
distubutaries and going
ahead with tcalistic
simulation of Bhakm Main
Brach for whih the
CWPRs had submitted the
estimate of ils8,93,600/-
whkh has been sanctioned
by Chief Engineer/
Project.



42
Stedy                          Purpo  a Deied at the    Sta                         IMPact dStd
Piot Schem  of VYrtbal         Use of backish and sagne    In the scheme, 1I drainage   Without operating dainage
Drainage Sysm  t tas wana      water in combination with   tubmtts have been        scheme, depth to water
Ditrit r                       cana water in specific soil-  installed and disposal of  table tAn    fom 06 m to
watrerop envionment       drainage afuent from       1.6 m. She maximum
with application of suitable   study amea of 8B ha has  4wrage depth of water
amendments.               been made into Batwala     table on accunt of
Link channel.             operation of scheme and
Prevent water logging and                            oter factots remained in a
soil salinization by suitable   Durng opeation, soil-  re  of about LS m to 2.9
technical eAns            water crop reltionship has   m.
been monitored.
Recbl sater4ogjd sad                                 The EC value of
salioised land by suitable  The scheme was started   poundwaser bas sha
technicat means.          durng 198 and has been    declining trends.
dosed beyond 13.92Z but
--Dispoisal of saline dup    the studies are still   The vue of g  aop
water.                    required to be canied out.   production during Rabi and
Efforts are being made to    Kf  has ireed froM
handloer the schemes to   Rs25 lakh to RsO.9 a
beneficiaries for O&tM    and RsI.10 Iakh to Rs8S
Wakh during 1967 to 1991.
The study would help
selecting alteraative sub
surface drainage proposals
for the affected areas.
Modernizing bullock carts. (SAR   Analyse the problem of  60 bullock car in five     Bullock carts with
pars 3.49)                     damage to bard surface     different designs - 4 nos.    pneumatic tyes are
rads by animal drawn      single animal and the rest    preferred by farmes LAe
(bullock) carts with iron  two animal driven with    numbet of such catts wec
rimmed whees and to       wooden and steel bodies,    operating in the rur areas
asses the difficulties likely   different types of bearmgp    befom the commencement
to be faced In moderzng   (tape roller, bush, bush in    of the saudy.
the carts in rural areas to    flexible element etc.). ad
reduce road damage by     with solid/pneumtc
actual usage of about 100    wheels ware fabricated. The
onised cats in            feuible element assembly is
selected area             patented by Central Road
Research Institute, New
Delhi PWD (B&tR)
Hayana report that 60
nes. have been distbuted
througb Aditional Deputy
Commissioners (ADCs)
Outpon, Faridabad,
Sonepat, Rohtak and
Mohindagatb Distics



43
7. Status of Coventants
Coventant    Lega             Subject          Deadline for  Status       Commets
Documet                              Complm"
Section    Project
Aeement
2.04                 Borrower to prepare desig  12/31/83    FUlly    The sdards
standards for water control           Complied followed arn those in
and regplaton facilites based                   CDO handbook and
on projected fture  l                           i5sued by Bureau of
operational eeds.                              Indian Standards
0(a)                 Borrower to prepare and    12/31/83    Fully
fush for rmevw detailed               Complted
plan for estabishing on the
Project water-courses
Shareholders Maintenance
Committee
5(b)                 Borrower to prepare and    12/31/83    Fully
frnish for review draft               Complied
model agreement to be
entered into by ID! EsMTc
with Shareholders
Maintenance Committee for
water-courses maintenance
monitorin and reprtWng.
2.0a)                Borrower to establish with  06/30/83   Fully
Irrigation Department                 Compe
Special Project Unit for field
level research and
development actvities to be
carried out under the project
206)                 Borrower to establish withi  06/30/83  Fully
Irrigation Department                 Complied
Speial Project Unit for
supporting and monitoring
the Sprkler Association.
2.07                 Borrower to prepare and    09/30/83    Fully
furnish for review and Complied
comments a plan for
establishment of Sprinkler
Association at end Spridler
Chak for coordination and
cooperation amongst the
famers.
2.08                 Borrower sh  establish    06/30/83    Fuly
within PWD Public Health              Compid
Branch an appraisal and
monitorig ccll fo appraising
desig of eac vige wa
supp scheme, coordinating
a system for monitoring
operation and monitoring of
the schemes.



44
Coventant   Lea               Subject          Deadline for  Status       Comments
Document                            Compliauce
2.09                 Borrower to prepare and    09/30/83    Fully
furnish for review work plans         Complied
and schedule for training and
research and development
actirities.
2.10(a)              Bofrower to maintain within           Fully
Irrigation .Department                Complied
Research and Development
and Training Unit to cary
out research and
development activites.
2.10(b)              Borrower to maintain within           Fully
fIrrgation Department                 Complied
Research and Development
Steering Committee to guide,
monitor and support the
efforts of RDTU.
3.02                 Borrowers to have their               Fully
accounts and financial                Complied
statements audited for each
FY by independent auditors
acceptable to Association and
furnish audit repor
immediately following
finalization.
3.04a)               Borrower to ensure water              Partially  GOH is inceasg
charges to cover operation            Complied funds for O&M
and maintenance costs                           charges for canals and
thereof as well as a                            water course.
reasonable share of canal
modernization investment.
3.4(b)               Borrower to ensure water                        The Clause
charges include at least 45%                    Cancelation
of investment costs and                         mentioned in the
maintenance charges of                          Assocaiones letter of
about 3% per annum of                           October 26, 1987
water course capital cost                       keter see para& 8 of
Attachment I to
Prqoet
Implementation
Table.
3.04(c)              Borrower to ensure water              Fu11y
charges include full operatin;        Complied
and maintenance costs for
vWilla  water supply schemes



S. Use of Bank Resources
Misaim TVp               Nntbjlesr       so. of Perons         Web               Spssizat7                         Perfor.mir"M                fes 1 of Probeandf
Rating              tresl
Idantificetian              1981              n.M               1.20
tdentification              1982              n.s              14.20
PrAppralsat                  n.s.              n.s.            In.&.
Appraista                    1982              10              31.90
ppraisal                     1983              10              29.60
Supervision                Apr. 83              2               0.71                  E(2)                    1                    2                 n.s.
Suervision                 Oct. 83              6               0.71          E, FA. PE. (2)RE. PO            2                    2                  F. H
supervision                May 84               2               0.71                 E (2)                    2                    2                  F, 
SupervisI m_               Jan. 85             5                0.71              f(3), PE, RE                2                   2                  f. H
Supervisiln                Jut. 8S             4                0.71              E, PE, RE, A                2                    2                   F
lisaif  Tye        MntW*wal        o. o.   Mlission Length Days In Field   Specialfzatt    Avaflabte        Project    Oev. Impact Overatt Status       Legm
Per"ns        (FIetd)                     Represented        Ftws        Management                                 Covents
Supervision         Feb. 86         5             12             60       E(MZ  C,S6Y PC         3             1             1             2
Supervision         Sep. 86         6             5             23         EC2), S(2),           3             1             1             2              -
supervision         Feb. 87         3             5              15           E2), SY            2             1             1             2
Superviston         Dec. S          6             S             30        f(2)    SY, DE         2             1             1             2
Supervision         Sep. U          5             5             25         E(2), , SY, A         2             2             1             2
Supervision         Feb. 89         5             8             40        E(2) DE A, SY          2             2             1             2
supervision         Oct. 89         4             S             20          EC2) A. DE           2             1             1             2              2-
Sv.pervisIon        Aug. 90         3             3              9            E(2) eEC           3             1             1             t              1
Supervlslon         Jut. 91         1             4              4               E               I             I            1              1              1
Supervision         Jan. 92         1             3              3               E               I             1            1              1             1
b Date of return to N.0.
A a Agriculturlst; I * Irrigstion Engineer: FA * Flnalat Analyst; PE a Procurement Engineerw  RE  Roads Engifeer; PO a Project Officer; S = Crouuater Specialist;
ST P Systems Anlyst; DE * Dranage  Engineer; EC a Econmist
el I a Probtem free or minor problems; 2 a Moderate problem 3 a Major problem
f * Flnanolalt; N a Managerial; T a Tecdnical.



HARYANA tRRIGATION 1 PROJECT
(Crdt 1319.IN)
Tablat WMin  Deba am Staff lapel (ceadamed)
S*a tprJ.         ml   FM     FY5   FM    FM    FM   FY31  NU   FM    FMY   mFl  FM' TOM'm
Cy*
my ad   1.2  I4.A1
AJwaIum1                   31Si   29.0                                                                   61.5
Nqad_ms                            9.10                                                                   9.10
Sip 4-leis                         6J0  22.70  2330  41.10  171.0  14.50  13.00   7.70  12.90   60  171.10
This                 1X*.  4&10  45.5   22.70  2O.   41.?  3100  140   13.0   7.70  12.30   6.0 257.10



47
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NDMIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1319-IN)
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.        The Haryana Irigation I1 Project is a comparatively simple project in concept. Two
components dominate - lining and other modenizaon work in canal reaches, and consruton of
lined watercourses. Tey accounted for 76 percent of the cost in the SAR; in the final accounts,
expenditure on these two components is 82 percent of the total. They also were to generate 77
percent of the benefit. Benefits were expected from only two other components - augmentation
tubewells (ATWs) and sprinlders. In the event, the ATW component was virually abandoned, and
the sprinkler component was not executed with the care and commitment needed to derive
significant benefit, and may be disregarded. Substantial expenditures were, however, made on
these components. The SAR did not quantify benefits from the other three components - (1)
Research. Development and Training, (2) Village Water Supplies, and (3) Village Roads.
However, the latter two met or exceeded original physical targets and have been positively
evaluated in qualitative terms (Par L para 6.5 and 6.6).
2.        Thus this analysis evaluates benefits only from the canal modernization and
watercourse components.
3.        The impact of these two activities are somewhat different. In the course of
construction of a water course, the discharge of the outet stucture which provides a fixed flow
of water proportional to the size of the chak (command of the outlet) is not changed (the outlet
strucure itself has, of course, to be adjusted to provide this discharge because the full supply water
level will have changed in the newly-lined minor canal). Thus water saved below the outlet as a
result of water course lining is available only to the farmers within the chak (they receive more
water per tum). This results in extra area being irigated. When a canal reach is lined, seepage
esdmated as saved is reduced from the capacity at the head of the channel. Ths water then becomes
available for use anywhere in the system, and results in extra tuns. Inigated area will increase on
those distibutaries which receive an additional turn at sowing time. An additional tum received at
other times will lead to a larger depth of application to the more valuable crops, providing inases
of yield. This also is likely to increase economic benefits. No data were available to diaggregate
these effects, thus increased area was evaluated, conservatively, as the principal impact of the
Project



48
4.         The area irigated in a year depends on the supplies available at the head of the system
(from the Yamuna and from the Beas, Sutlej and Ravi rivers via the Bhakra reservoir). As
discussed in paragraph -3, additional supplies available at sowing periods are likely to be the main
determinant of additional area. Rainfall occurring at sowing time also could result in larger area
sown.
5.         Table 1 lists areas irrigated for the period 1982 to 1991, water supplied, and rainfall.
The area irrigated in each season and annually is plotted in Figure 1. In addition the 'average" line
is also plottedl. It should be noted that the area irrigated in kharif 1984 is a figure calculated by
taking the mean of the kharif areas for 1983 and 1985. The reason for this is th in kharif 1984
thae was a large and serious canal breach which much restricted the ara irrigated in kharif 1984.
The use of the actual recorded figure would thus have been misleading.
6.         On the above basis the incease in irrigated area over the period 1982 to 1991 is about
175,000 ha (SAR estimated 245,000 ha) or an average of about 19,400 ha per year2. This is the
increase in irrigated area credited to the project and used in the economic analysis. More
sophisticated analysis was tried (multiple regression analysis) but with unsatisfying results. Hence
the simple analysis has been accepted combined with a sensitivity analysis in acknowledgment that
fte actual i e  in irrigated area attributable to the project cannot be accurately known and may
be up to 20 % in error. On the basis of 19,400 ha increase of area per year, Table 2 was
calculated. This provides a first estimate of incremental area by crop for each development year.
Bneft
7 .         The project's main benefit comes from the increase in agricultural production
resulting from the increase in irrigated area as described above. Allocation of incremental area to
various crops had been based on the ten-year average cropping pattern shown in Table 3; area
under miscellaneous has been realocated proportionally to different crops. This cropping pattern
had been assumed to remain the samo over the analysis period.
8.         The re-calculation of the ERR had been based on crop models provided to the mission
by Haryana Agriculural University (HAU) which monitors the project (Table 4). However, as it
was felt that these crop models may not be sustainable over the project life, the fairly conservative
crop models presented in the SAR C(able 5) have also been used to illustrate the possible variation
in the ERRs. In these models, yields have been assumed to remain constant, as improvement of
agriculture was not the main objective of the project. Crop models in the "without project" situation
have been based on the SAR, and shown in Table 6.
9.         Fuiancial and economic prices of various agriculture products and inputs are presented
in Table 7. Economic prices of traded commodities have been derived from parity prices based on
the World Bank Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, June 1992. Export parity prices
have been used for cotton and sugarcane3, import parity prices used for all other crops and inputs
(see Table 8 and 9). As Haryana exports paddy and wheat to ote part of India, prices of these
commodities have treated as import parity pnces, excluding internal transport costs. For non-
1 That is, the ine representing the straight line increase in area irrigated from the totals for 1982 and 1991.
2    This is probably a conservative figure; M.K Oulati and T.S. Pud In their paper "A Study of Comparadve
Effects of Xining Water Courses on Crop Productivity, Control of Risig Watertable and Energy Saving,
give a base figure of 38% incease In overal area under different aops: this would indicate an increase of
about 360,000 ha attributable to Haryana IL (Proceedigs of Seminar on Energy in Agriculture, RAU,
Hissar, 26 Marcb 1988).
3    Traditional export commodity; 180,000 tons exported in 1991.



49
traded commodities, including labor, a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8I has been used to
convert fmancial prices into economic prces.
C=
10.       Direct expenditue on the Project every year has been adjusted by the Indian wholesale
price index (WPI), with base 1981/82, to arrive at the costs in 1992 rupees. Though in the fmnal
year of the Project, 1991/92, all expenditures were not made by March 31, 1992 (end of the Indian
fiscal year) the total estimated for all work accomplished by that date has been ta=en as having been
expended by March 31.
11.       The other cost to be included is the cost of incremental maintenance on the works put
in place by the Project. The SAR anticipates that lining canal reaches will reduce maintenance
requiement on them, but uses incremental cost of 3 percent of lining cost in the economic analysis.
12.      Inquiries with field officers indicat that they do not expect maintenance costs on lined
canals to differ significantly from those on unlined canals, when maintenance is adequate and
regular. Allocations for maintenance have increased substantially in the past two years, and the
Inigation Department expects to reach norms accepted by the national Fmance Commission. Under
this circumstance, it is assumed that no incremental maintenance cost on canals need be ascribed to
the Project.
13.       Cost of maintenance of lined watercourses should be considered as incremental due to
the Project. In the base case for economic analysis this cost has been estimated to be 5 percent of
the work done up to the end of the previous year. Two scenarios with respect to cost and
effectiveness of maintenance of watercourses have also been studied, as explained in a later
section.
Re-estimated ERs
14.       The ERRs have been reestimated based on 20 years of project life, and in 1992
constant prices. Benefits from increased agriculture production have been included in the benefit
stream. Project costs, including maintenance cost, and cost at farm level have been included in the
cost stream. It has been assumed also, as in the SAR, that in the "without project" situation, 20
percent of the incremental irrigated area would be cropped with rain.
15.       As mentioned above, the ERRs have been calculated for two scenarios: (a) scenario
based on data on crop yields from Haryana Agriculture University (HAU)), and (b) scenarido B
based on SAR crop models and assumed crop yields.
16.       With the above assumptions, the ERRs have been reestimated respectively at 33
percent and 17 percent for scenario A and scenario B (see Tables 10 to 13), compared with 29
percent estimated in the SAR. Both scenario A and B assumed smaller incremental area resulting
from the project, compared with the incremental area expected in the SAR. However, scenario A
generates higher ERR than that of the SAR because of yields assumed in this scenario are far better
than yields in the SAR.
S&nal,xitx
17.       Sensitivity of the ERRs has been tested, assuming a reduction by 20 percent of the
incremental irrigated area resulted from the project. With this reduction, the ERRs would be
reduced by about 5 percent respectively to 28 percent and 12 percent. Tllis indicates that even with
the 20 percent reduction in incremental irrigated ara, the project is still economically viable.
1   Used by the World Bank.



50
FEaumn
18.      As indicated in Table 14, the net revenue per hectae (fnancial ems) was estated at
about Rs. 10,000. The incremental irigated area of about 175,000 ha represent about 8 percent
incra  over the total area of about 2.2 millions hectare in te project ar  Te average holding in
the project area is about 4 ha (SAR), the financial benefit per farm would be about Rs.3,200 (4 x 8
percent x 10,000) or US$114, an increase in farm income of about 8 percent.



51
ANNEX 1
Figure I
Haryana PCR - Area Irrigated
2.2-
2-__ ;_
1.8 _ _ _ 8 sn~nual 
jdPg11.6     --
1 ._1.4_
1.2-_                                      ab_
1.- _K.a.r. 
0.6     -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    --
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Years



52
INOIA
Haryana Irigaton nI Project
Annoit I
table 1. Area Irigated. Water Availabirkty and Rainfall
1982      1983      1984         1985      1986      1987      1986      1966       1990      199
Iriaed Area tlHa)
Sugarcane            2       53738    45667         39926    s2687    62419       44011     44032    44233    551W
Rice              148802    157219   103718        184388   29507S    125290    163638    1556    167453   tI5?
Coaon            340844    3538    238231          298384   238212   361291    357        403275    403375   366711
DaJra             97476      96249    72878          6735    102629   100618      73529     684tO    6200        7
maize              e212       7328      5890         7544      7870      1127      4S83      5068      S130       6m52
Jawar             126672    117993    104200       126039   143521    148485    154149    131333    133005    164665
MIsceLanaKeas     479M2      66314     45870        563s5     54035    53352      45581     40158    48S20       5S53S
Rabi
VVheat            394053    439933    393512       411291   448141    417881    485928    S19005    476000   510000
Safley            25817      25310     19522        23394    22008    31483       35167     26680    32000    250#0
Gram               96281    101182     76847       110014   136808    56773       76068     65996    57000        60000
Oilseeds          17961    1t80177    236528       281904    133524    179164    115311    294745    180000   2S#000
WheatS.          224191    208934    225241        233281    294597   245592    316993    150515   255000    151000
Misceganeous       08667    93505      89547        96184    87511    98587       96194     79516    94000    81000
-674262
tharif           848069    855409    822381         6 789353   894329   859788    844268    878652   88816   679167
FabI             1018660  1049041   1041197       1156068  1121839  1027480  1125661   115I456  1094000  1160000
Annual           1864729  1904450   1863578       1945421  2016068   1887268   1969920  2035308   1980016   2039167
Average          1864729   1884111   1903493      1987S  1942257  1961639   1981021   2000403  20197           20t167
Supplie (cusec-day)
lowi            2493263  2159902   1628769        1867885  2431544  2251028  2251097  2544099  2485394  232066o
Rabi             1927480   1922582   1539353      2081318   1936427   1492129  1889733   1649927  2061438   1785419
Anntual          4420713  4062484  3168122        3949203  4367971   3743157  4140830  4394026  4546832  4182270
Rainfl (mm)
Htssar               382       486       379          352       328       173       S65        170      428        tio
Jnd                  304       802       344          562       377       162       672       226       300
KVAt"a               911      1408       699         1099      10t7       676      1614      1083       661
Kanml               485        885       438          442       518       255      1020       464       767
O= rigial area recorded for 1984
P- Revied (averaged) 1984 area used for analysis



INDA
~~  W   ll pr                 --                       -~~~Mul
,~~~I                                                                 htexld
Table 2. Increase of Cropped Area
Unlt: ha
%I/ 183184   1984186   186616   190887   1967/1     1989   19890   199M1  1I/00  1t8/s   199/9  Onwds
I. Inremental area nl)
Incremental (each yeat)    19,400    19,400    19.400    196400    19,400    19,400    19,400    19,400    19,400  0        0        0
CLSwauile               19,400    38,800    58,200    77,600    97,000   116,400   135,800   156.200   174,600   174,600   174,60    17400
It. Aa by c    )
Paddy            10      1,940    3,880     5,820    7.760     9,700    11,640    13,590    15,520    17,460    17,460    17,460    17,400
Coton            18      3,492    6,984    10476    13j968    17,460    20,952    24,444    27,936    31,42B    31,42B    31,428    31,428
Basa              5       970     1,940     2.910    3,880     4,850     5,820    6,790     7,760    8,730     8,730    8,730     8730
Jawar - bodder    8      1,552    3,104     4,656    8,208     7,760     9,312    10,864    12416   1968    13968    13,968    13968
Wheat            38      7,372    14,744    22116    29,488    36,860    44,232   *51,604    58976    68,340    66,348   68348    66,348
Gram              5       970     1,940     2,910    3,880     4,850    5,820     6,790     7,760    8,730      730     8,730     8.730
Barey             1       194      388       582       776      970      1,164    1,358     1,552    1,746     1,746    1,746     1,746
Sugarcane         3       582     1,164     1,746    2328      2910     3,492     4,074     4,656    52238     5,238    5,238     5,238
Mustard          12      2328     4,656     6,984    9,312    11,640    1%968    16,296    18,624    20,952    20,952    20,952    20,952
Total           100    19,400    38800   65200    77,600    97,000   116.400   135,800   155,200   174,600   174,600   174,600   174,600
1/ based on 1  2 averaerpping paitnnand assuned contant; maize Is negileable.
Area ulwder mlsceNmw_c has been aocated propotonsly to othr crop..



;;4
WA
~~~~~lh,*
Uhn: he
19W    1X          1964,6   1 S         -        1        1997^B   t911Bj    1989       19019t-1 -    Ea 9     z  TM    To1 9
WhVat            33%   616,244   646,867   61,73   844.572              742,73    663,473   02,921    a9,50   731 00 600    33%  6.610,06   35% W
EBa              1%    25.817    25,310    19,522    23.394              22.006    31,46     35,167    26,880    32,000    26,000   1%   266.381    1%  iN*
Grmn             5%    96I261   101.182    76,847   1100,14             13066    56,773    760068    85,966    57,00o    66,000    4%   6862l1    5%  unn
Pady             86%   148,602   1t5,219   16M716   164,368             295,075   1259M6   163,638   166,556   167,453   16S2,27   6%  1,734,236    6e% FC
Ebaa             5%    97,475    996249    72,678    76,735             102,829   100,816    73.529   86,410    88.200    79;223   4%   879.344    6% "a
mm"ze            0%      8.212     7,326     5,690     7,644               7,870    8,127     4.503     6,068     8,130    5,252   0%    62,824    0% 1A120
Jater            7%    128,672   117,993   104;#00  126,039              143,521   148,4a5   154,149   131,333   133,005   164,S65   8%  1.382*3    7?% ,ahw
S& risna         4%    68.352    53,738    48,667    39.926              s2,687    62,419    44,011    44,032    44,233    55,167   3%   510.2       asqom  r3mns   U'
?Ajdmd           10%   179.651   16A0177   236,528   281,904             133,524   179,164   115,311   294.745   160,00    296000   14S4 2,078,X04   11% OUlsad     4
Cotat            19%   348.844   353,566   236,231   298,64              238,212   361a91   356,797   403,275   403,375   356,739  17%  3,3581R30   17% CO6M0
Msclanous         6%   146.579   159,819   135,417   152,541             141,546   149,939   141,755   119,674   139.520   136,584   7%  1,42324    7% mtos
Toot                1,664,729  1,904,450 1,715,449  1,945,421         2,016066  1,867;66  1,969I029 2,035.308  1,980,916 2,039,167    19,35605



55
-   ~~~~~~   ~~~  ~~~~ '~~~~~ ~Annvc 1
Table 4.QC2 Input Fn&Menbtpar HuCeS 11
cp   -Yield          N     P      K     CEl      eul 9s       J       i;Chembs - Muse TIU-
Inn    k!      kg    !Q       md                FRS       RS       RS       RS
Paddy               5      160     52      0      104        4       260      440      220      75
Comm                t.5    95      30      0       e6        7       175      040       1      700
Base                1.1    24      2       3       33        5        so        a       60    438
war- fodder        36.0    40      6       0       40        4       227   -   0        42    450
Whe                 3.7   100      55     10       55        6       494      t90      119    M6
Gram                0.9     2       4      0       25        6       479       15        0    363
Barey               3.1    70      40      0       49        5       us         0       82    726
Sugvne             55.0   132      21     1o      132        3      1482      226      340    668
Muslvcf    -        1.5    5o      30      0       37       10        40       49       82    642
1/ based on dca ftom Hrwa AAgcuIal Usrutmy.



INDIA
Haryana Irrigafaon It Project
Arnex I
eTable 5. Crop Input Requirements per Hectaire 11
Crop       Yield    N      P       K     Labor   BUiloCks   Seed  AChemicalf Manure
ton     kg     kg     kg       md       pd        Rs       Rs        Rs
Paddy               3.5    75      30      30      125        24      260      440       220
Cotton              1.2    45      20      0       105       22       175      940        15
Bara                0.9    20      10       5       55        16       80        0        80
Jawar- fodder      320       0      0      0        58       24       227        0        42
Wheat               23      65     25      10       78       22       494       190      119
Gram                0.9      0     20      0        45'       12      479       1S         0
Barley              1.2    25      10       0       70        18      588        0        82
Sugarcane          40.0    75      30      10      200       38      1482      226       340
Mistard             0.7    20       0      0        63        18       40       49        82
1/ based on SAR



57
IN01A
Haryamn btigaUon 11 Project
Annex i
Table . Cwp Input IeaquIrenmnts pe Hectare 11
(woaut the projec1
Ciop                Y         fd  N  P       K      Lab"    WHO        Sed  A.M Ois  M rs
to"     kg     kg      kg      md        Pd        Rs        Rs        Rs
WIUWtloam                     1.1     20      0       0        e8       18       300          0      *00
Gtam                         0o.       a     10       o       46        12       300         0         0
Sartey                        0.9    20      10       0       66        18      .400         0        82
Mustard                       0.4     1S      0       0       SO        18        40         0        82
1/ based on SAR



58
INOUA
Haryana Irdgation it Project
Annex I
Table 7. Financial and Economtc Prices
Crop        Unit            Financial                    Economic
1992               1992               2000
Paddy 11          Rs/t               2,800.0             4,734.0            4,309.0
Cotton 1/         Rs/t              12,300.0            11,533.0           14,500.0
Bajra 3/          Rs/t               3,140.0             2,860.0            2,995.0
Jawar- fodder 21   RsA                 280.0              224.0               224.0
Wheat I/          RsIt          -    2,400.0             5,670.0-           5,873.0
Gram 2/           Rsit               6,500.0             5,200.0            5,200.0
Barley 2/         Rs/t               2,750.0             2,200.0            2,200.0
Sugarcane 1/      Rs/t                 420.0              328.0               559.0
Mustard 1/        RsIt               7,500.0             4,411.0            4,411.0
N 4J             Rs/kg                  - 7.0              14.4                16.3
P 4/             Rs/kg                   6.2               12.6                13.5
K4/              Rs/kg                   5.3               10.7                11.5
Labor 2/         Rslmd                  35.0               28.0                28.0
Bulloks 2/       Rs/pd                  65.0               52.0                52.0
1/ parity price for economic.
2/ financial price converted into economic price using SCF 0.8.
3 import parity price of sorghum reduced by 25% to reflect quality differential.
41 derived from Import parity prices of urea, TSP, and MP.



INCA
Hwpm  ,dggtbn 11 Af-OE9rnex 1
Table 8. Dhrivlon d Economic Prices In Yew 1992
Ulift  I    Ex Part     IrmoiPtPriwy    1                            ImPrtPrw-
I Coltoni   Sna I Paddie   WheaI |  islerd Stnilower SrGLm            L ea      TSP        Mv   |
Wald Miet Prce 21            L$MT
In i65 cnstant UL                           930       137       192      11                            69        98        82
In 1S l consantULa31                       1,422      209       294      174       415       460      106       150       125       98
QuWhIVAdmustnent             %                90        90        so      100       100       100       8o       100       100      100
Wold   W EqjuvSen            U3$SUIT        1,280      189       235      174      .415       460       84       150       125       93
freolht& nsurance            L(0)                       (35)      35       35        35        35       35        35        35       35
aF Ind Pcr
- InU19$                    L6$Mr          1,210      154      270       209       450       495      119       185       t60      133
- In Rs P8ARsXu1S$)         As/mr        33,876     4.299     7,556     5,861    12,600    13,880    3,343    5.176     4,491     3,724
PaCt hwges                   Rs/MT           (0        (240)     240      240       240       240      240       240       240      240
lntUnnlTranspol              f(sfl          (400)     (180)    (160)    (80)       180       180      180       180       160      18O
Inten ltctggandHrcdg         FbAsT            (65)    (100)      100      100       100       100      100       t00       100      100
ProcesrngAato                %                35        10       62        95        34        34      100       100       100      100
WbhesWeValue                 Rs/MT         11,603      378     4,784     5,720    4.461     4,889     3,863    5,696     5.011     4,244
Laa mmlnceg & vansprt        As/M (l70)                (SO)      (50)     (50)      (50)       50)     (50)       50        50       50
Form -  t pice               RsiMr         11,533      328     4,734     5.670    4,411     4,839     3,813    5,746     5,061     4,294
( ):negSM negtre.
I/ Indkk Is a net ImgpnEr In tiese cmmodcWes, howm   Hrywan Is an eolng state vhiin lnda.
Ecnomic Pice two been derved tom Impot pica, excludlng Intrnamnsprt cost
21/vWd Bank, eWslcn d PAlmary Oommodty Price Fcramsts, Juna 1902.
91 WN15281.



INDIA
Haryaa Irrigaial II Project
.  ~~~~~~~nex 1
Table 9. DerIvation of Economic PriCes in Year 2000
Ihnit    _ Expor Panty       Import PaFt 1/  I                       Import Party
Cotita    SCane    Paddy   Vlteat    Mustard Sunflower Soruhrum    Urea       TSP       MP
Wodid Market Price 21        US$/MT
In 1985 cnsteftUS$                         1,150      197       172       119                           as      116        90
In 1992ocnstantUS$3/                       1,758      301       263       182      415       460       101      177       138       109
0uWItyAd$ustment                              90        90        80       100      100       100        90       100      100       100
WoddMaeot Equldnten          US$JMT         1,583      271       210       182      415       460        91      177       138       109
Frolt & Insurance            US$rMT          (70)      (35)      35        35        35        35       35        35        35        35
CIF hcda Port
- in US$                    US$lMT         1,513      236      245       217       450       495       126      212       173       144
- in Ftl (28Ram1US$)        RsW          42,353     6,611     6,671     6,075    12,800    13,860    3,523     5,947    4,833     4,032
Port Chorgas                 F3ReT           (20       (240)     240      240       240       240       240      240       240       240
hnteml Tmsport               Re/MT          (400)     (18i      (160)    (10        10        180      180       180       180       180
htomX Mktg and Hndg          Re/MT            (65)    (100)      100      100       100       100       100      100       100       100
Ptoceesh biO                 96               35        10        62       95        34        34       100      100       100       100
WhdeanJe Vdue                RawM          14,570      609     4,359     S,923     4,461    4,889     4,043     6,467     5,353    4,552
Loed malketing &transport    R/tf            (70)      (50)      (50)     (50)      (50)      (50)     (50)       50        50       50
Farm - gate price            Rs/MT         14,500      559     4,309     5,873    4,411     4,839     3,993     6,517    5.403     4,602
( ):negatwflgure.
1 India Is anot Imporerin these commodtlio, however Ha,yana is an exporlhg state whin hdia.
Economic ptuc, have boon dedved from import price, exdt ing Intemnal transport coot
2IWodd Bank, Revision od PrmaryCommodity Prce Forecasts, ,ine 1992
31 MUV 152.91.



INDIA
Haryana Irrfgation Project
Annex 1
Table 10. Economic Crop Budget (1892) I
Unit Rs/ha
crop        Main     ay-      Gross        N          P        K      Labor 3  Bullocks 3   Sead 3/   Agra-    Tracur  Manurei     Total   NeL
I         Product Product 2/  Value                                                               Chemical                       Cost    Benefit
Paddy             25,090     2,5C9    27,599       2,304      655        0     2,912      208       208       440      875       176     7.778    19.821
Cotton             17,645    1,765    19,410       1,368      378        0     2,408      364       140       940      700        12    6,310    13.100
Sara               3,003       300     3,303        346        25       32       924      260        64         0      438        64     2,153     1,15C
Jawr- todder       8,064       806     8,870        576       76         0     1.120      208       182        0       450        34     2,645    6,226
Wheat             20,696     2,070    22,765       1.440      693      107     1,540      312       395       190      916        95     5,688    17.077
Gram               4,732       473     5,205         29        50        0       700      312       383        15      363         0     1,852    3,353
Barley             6,820      682      7,502       1.008      504        0     1,372      260       470         0      726        65     4,405    3,097
Sugacane          18,040     1,604    19,844       1,901      265      107     3,696      156      1.186     226       588       272     8,396    11,448
MustErd            6,396      640      7,036        720       378        0     1,036      520        32       49       642        66     3.443    3,593
I/ based on HAU crop Input requirements,
2/ assume 10% of main product.
3/ applied SCF 0.8.                                                                                                                                   0%



INDIA
Hanpena Inrbation Project
Amex 1
Table I1  Economic Crop Budget (2000) 1/
Unit: Rsha
Crop       Maln      By-      Gross      N         P        K      Labor 3/ Bulbcks 3/ Seed 3/   Agro-  Manure 3/   Total      Net
I             Product Product 2/  Value                                                              Chemical             Cost    Benefit
Paddy            22838     2284    25,121      Z608       702        0      2,912      208      208       352       176     7.166    17,955
Cotton           22,185    2219    24,404      1,549      405        0      2,408      364       140      752        12     b630    18,774
Balma            3,145       314     3,459      391        27       35       924       260       64         0        64     1,765     1,695
Jawar-lbdder      8,064      806     8.870      652        81        0      1,120      206       182        0        34     2276      6,594
Wheat            21,436    2144    23,580      1,630      743       115     1.540      312      395       152        95     4,982    18,599
Gram              4,732      473     5,205       33        54       .0       700       312      383        12         0     1,494    3,711
Barley            6,820      682     7,502     1,141      540        0      1,372      260      470         0        65     3,848    3,654
Sugarcane        30,745    3,075    33;820     2,152      284       115     3,696      156     1,188      181       272     8,040    25,779
1Austard         6,396       640     7,036      815       405        0      1,036      520       32        39        66     2913     4,123
1/ based on HAU crop Irput requiremerts.
2Vasssume 1% of miln product.
3/appi1ed $CF 0.8



INGA
ynar tlratdan If Prolect
Mtnex1I
Table 12. Economic AnalysIlsth I-IAU Yields and Inputs
LnIt: MW. Rs;
1982M3   1963l94   1964495   1965498   196847   1987i96   19l8s89    1ESw9D   60491   1991492  1SSlil3  1993494  OmerO s 2nCXE2a4
A WM=HOUT PO.JECr 1/
Ctopvakae                              0.0      14.0     28.0      41.9     55.9      69.9      03.9     97.9    111.8    125.6    125.8    125.8    t25.8
Ctop cost                              0.0      11.6     232       34.8     46.4      58.0      69.6     812       92.8    104.4    104A      104A      104.4
Not beneIt                             0.0       2.4      4.8       7.1      9.5      11.9      14.3     16.6      19.0      21.4     21.4      21A      21.4
8. WTH PRWOECT
I. Benefit
COnpwkjeR/                              0      340.5    681.1   1,021.6   1,3622    1,702.7   2.0432   2,383.8   2,724.4   3,064.9   3,064S   3,084.    3,0e4s
H. Costs
Projict cost airent                  424.5    481.1    401.6    440.6    347.6    265.9    235.3    507.0    845.7                                             0'
PrIce Index                          112.9    120.1    125.4    132.7    143.6    154.3    165.7    182.7    206.0
Prolect cosw 19o                     770.6    821.2    656.5    680.5    496.2    353.3    291.1    568.9    845.7
?Aalnerancel cost                       0       11.1     26.6      38.3     47.8      54.3      57.1     58.5      67.2     60.9      80.9     8o.9      80.9
Crapcost2/                                     100.8    201.6    302.4    403,2    504.0    604.8    705.6    806.4    907.2    9072          907.2    9072
Tola costs                           770.8    933.1    884.7   1,0212      947.2    911.6    953,0   1,333.0   1,7193      988.1       81     988.1     98.1
Il. Net bendlMh tmst                (770.8)   (592.6)   (203.6)     0.4    415.0    791.2   1,090.3   1,0509   1,005.1   2,C768   2,0768    2,0764   2,0764
C. NEt' ENEFrr                       (773.4   (597.    (210.4)      (9.1)   403.1    776.9   1,073.6   1.0318      983.7   2,065.    2,055A    2,0554A  2,054
ER-            33%
1/assume20% dc h1sed area would he ben oed wth ralnfed
2/bas oncrpibudeW stnd area.



9 *
INOA
_   _  _ 1 1gat  It Pre                                                      Anwm I
Tahb 13. Economic Ana1yslJSAR Cop Budget
Unlt: MR. Ho
1w2Al3  198384   1984M6   19853     19667   1987J8   19889   1909/90  19933 1UPI92  1939j     1993t4  OiWdi  2004
A Wltnw PROJEC  1i
COcpvalue                             0.0      14.0     28.0      41.9     65.9     69.9      83.9     97.9     111.8    125.8    125.8    125.8    125.8
WapCcicst                             0.0      11.6     23.2      34.8     48.4     58.0      69.6     81.2      928     104.4    104.4    104.4    10.4
Neltbiellt                            0.0       2A       4.8       7.1      9.5      11.9     14.3     16.6      19.0     21.4      21.4     21A      21.4
B. WTH PROJEC
I. aeneut
Oa3apIue2                              0     231.1    402.2    893.4    9245    1,155.6   1,380.7   1,17.    1,84.9   2.080.1   2,080.1   2,080.1   2,080.1
It. Ccms,
PFolectcastauent                    424.5    481.1    401.6    440.5    347.6    26589       235.3    507.0    845.7
Frice ln                            112.9    120.1    125.4    132.7    143.6    154.3    165.7    182.7    2D5.0
Ro0)ectcicE197 770.8    8212                           656.5    680.5    496.2    353.3    291.1    568.9    845.7
tInorunce cost                         0       11.1     26.6      38.3     47.8 ,   54.3      57.1     58.5      67.2     80.9      80.9     80.9     80.9
oapcost2I                                      99.5    199.0    298.6    398.1    497.6    597.1    696.7    796.2    895.7    895.7    895.7    896.7
Total coso                          770.6    931.8    882.2   1,017A      942.1    905.2    945.3   1,324.0  1,709.1    976.6    976.6    976.6    976.6
III.NotbaneltAthwpro"t              (770.9)   (700.7)   (419.9)   (324.0q    (17.6)    250.4    441.4    293.8    139.9   1,1035   1,1035    1,103S    1,103S
C. NEt BEEFIT                        (773.4   (705.9)   (427.1)   (333.9)    (29.5)    236.1    424.7    274.8    118.5   1,082.1   1,082.1   1,082.1   1,062.1
ERR=           17%
llassne 20% at kwased ars woMi hwe been roxed wIh rahled.
2j basWdn oamp budg  and area.



INDIA
Irnkralrption If Proleot
Tabe 14. Financil Crop Budget (1002) t/
Unit: R/ha
Crop       Main     By-      Gross      N         P        K       Labor   Bulodes   Seed    Agro-   Tracbr   Mane    Total          Net   Pepwtion N.Rweu
Roduct Product 21  VaLe                                                            Chemkal                       Cowl    Benefit             per ha
Paddy           14.840    1.484   16,324     1,120      322        0         0      260      260       440      075      220     3.497    12.407       tO     1203
Conon           18,819    1.882   20,701      a6s       186        0         0      456       175      940      700        15    3.136    17,665       16    3.162
Baa              3.207      330     3.627      106       12       18         0      325       80        0       438       60    1,119      2,507       s       125
Jawr- oddW    10.080    1.000   11,088         260       37        0         0      260      227         0      450       42    t129       CM792       8       783
VWheat           6.760      876     9.638      700      341        53        0      390       494      t9o      .16       119     3.203    6.433       38     U44S
Garm             5.016      692     0.507       14       25        0         0      390      479        15      363        0      t;28B    6           5       261
Earhy            8.625     e65      9.378     490       240        0         0      326      56W         0      726       02    2.4588  8.919          1        6
Sugwosn         23,100    2.310   25.410      924       130       53         0      195     1.482      226      668      340     3.38   21.472         3       044
Mustrd          10.R75    1.066    11,963      350      1ee        0         0      660       40        49      642       02      1.099    9,964       12    1.199
Total                                                                                                                                                        9.666
1/based on AU caop kiptAreosenmwet.                                                                                                                                    L
Vassurne 10% d main product.



66
PROJECI COMPLEIION REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1319-IN)
ANNEX 2
THE PUKKA NUKKA
1.        Control of flow in a watercourse is achieved by use of small removable gates which fit
in purpose made structr built into the watercourse wherever it is desired to control discharge or
tunout water on to a farmer's land. There are weU over a milion such gates (known as Nukkas)
in Haryana irrigation areas, so although the cost of an individual gate may be small, the overall cost
of Nukka gates forms a large sum.
2.        When watercourses are unlined the Nukka may be a vety casual control - often just a
few shovel-fulls of mud to dam the flow in the channel and a cut in the bank to flow the water out
on the field. Even with earth channels however there is usually a small strucure with, originally, a
liffting steel gate. With the advent of lined watercourses the need for an effective control gate
becwane more pronounced
3.        Steel gates are unsatisfactory, mainly because they are light, difficult to seal and easy
to sell as scrap. Concrete gates are better because they are too heavy to art away easily and less
easy to sell, however they too, are difficult to seaL The farmers solution to this problem is to seal
whichever type of gate he inherits with a few shovel-fulls of mud from the watercourse banik In a
very short fime this exposes fte lining and a lining/watercourse colpse becomes inevitable.
4.        The "Pukka Nukka" was an attempt to avoid this problem by providing a mass
produced but water-tight gate. Essentially it consists of a circular disc of concrete with an ogee
section edge that fits into a purpose made hole in the sloping bulkhead in the structWe. Tlis hole is
also provided with a matching ogee section around its edge. In theory the disc and the bulkdead
sealing surfaces are manufactured (in fact ground) to such a close tolerance that the gate seals on a
concrete-to-concrete contact In fact, the seal is very good but not perfect, some water escapes; the
farmers solution to this is to use a hoe full of soil to seal the "Pukka Nukka", thus again, damaging
the watercourse bank (but more slowly - less earth being used each time).
5.        Similar devices but using a rectangular gate have been developed and tried; they leak
more than the circular one.
6.       In fact the impossible is being auempted. It just is not possible to build a low cost,
high volume product using concrete-to-concrete seaing contact, under field conditions.
7.      I The most ikely alterative would appear to be the rectangular nukka referrd to above
but with its sealing surfaces (or those upon which it will bear on in the structre) covered with a
compressible medium, attached to the concrete by a modem two pot water-proof adhesive. The
objection to this solution is that such a seal increases the level of sophistication of the product and
provides a gate which may be subject to physical damage (the sealant may be scraped or abraded in
some way). With suitable choice of sealant and adhesive such possible damage should be reduced
to acceptable levels - certinly no more than occurs to existing concrete gates which become
chipped and cracked quite quicldy. The level of sophistcation charge is valid - but men to achieve
a water-tight nukka is a sophisticated request



.,_____________________                                          IBRD   16552
SUTLEl, BEAS, AND RAVI RIVERS DEVELOPMENT                                                     j reOkO.Nen9QI hed*Qd:
AND BHAKRA-NANGAL CMPLEX                                                                      'see /,,     8)Je
NYr rO SCALE             ^       -      PANDOH
C~~~~~~~~~~~ U N II 
ODAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A
.  ay _.  . ,H..MACHAL v-I
HARYANA IRRIGATION  U PROJECTAR
C          ANAL COMMAND AREAS
Irrigotion Canal Command oreas //h
Irrgation cirde boundories L  / 
-- Irrigation division boundones          L. O    H   u.,J              r/.XDELHI 
Canals:             R                     I       Ft
Existing                                             =                s       rGug7e                     S
-    NaoUnder construction                        '                .A    \                /
op8c Rivers 9,\\/4
14    Dams bieSh       
Main roads                                       l     ,,T;             e                   Sh 
o   Cities and towvns                              \,       -                           7                        3
(i   State capital                                    --                ,    /       -    9 
69   National capital                              3+c                          J) 
State boundaries
R A J A S T HAN A N
Kilometen 0   20      40     60      80    10too                                                     t,
Miles.         20           40           60
flot ,op ho b..,ppn  P_ Tb. TW. RonA'. .
=1_tpd,.1, i-_d  IhQ 
ont Go.1nd toli  n wo.
7h. %9
w                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEBS 199



