Document of
The World Bank                              HL O
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4099-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
January 5, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =  Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASIJRES (METRIC SYSTEM) 2/
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)             =  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 milion acre-feet (MAF)                 =  1,235 Mm
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)    =  28.32 M cubic meters
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) =  0.028 cSbic meters per second (cumec)
1 cfs                                    =  102.9 m /hr
1 ton                                    =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and GOH            -   April 1   -  March 31
NABARD, Cooperatives  -   July 1    -  June 30
Commercial Banks       -   January 1 -  December 31
1/ The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 9.0, which represents
the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.
2/ The Metric System has been used in most cases. However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units
are still widely used, and were also used in this report in cases in
which a conversion to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC   -    Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation
ATW    -    Augmentation Tubewell
B&R    -    Bridges and Roads Branch of PWD
CAD    -    Command Area Development
CADA   -    Command Area Development Authority
CCA    -    Cultivable Command Area
ERR    -    Economic Rate of Return
FSL    -    Full Supply Level
GOH    -    Government of Haryana
GOI    -    Government of India
HAU    -    Haryana Agricultural University
HSMITC -    Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
ICB    -    International Competitive Bidding
ID     -    Irrigation Department
IDA    -    International Development Association
LCB    -    Local Competitive Bidding
M&E    -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF    -    Million acre-feet
NABARD -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
O&M    -    Operation. and Maintenance
PH     -    Public Health Branch of PWD
P&T    -    Post and Telegraphs Department
PWD    -    Public Works Department
R&D    -    Research and Development
RDTU   -    Research and Development and Training Unit
SCF    -    Standard Conversion Factor
SDP    -    State Domestic Product
SE     -    Superintending Engineer
SEB    -    State Electricity Board
SIA    -    Sprinkler Irrigation Association
SMC    -    Shareholders Maintenance Committee
SPU    -    Special Project Unit
SYL    -    Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal
UNDP   -    United Nations Development Program
WUA    -    Water Users Association
WYC    -    Western Yamuna Canal
GLOSSARY
baira  -    pearl millet
gram   -    chick pea
chak   -    watercourse command area
kharif -    wet season; early May-early October
rabi   -    dry season; mid-October-late April
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ............................            1
Introduction     .....................1................. 
Agriculture and Irrigation in India ...............            1
The State of Haryana ...... ..............                     3
Agriculture and Irrigation in Haryana .............            3
Agricuilture        ....................................    3
Surface Irrigation ....................                     4
Groundwater   ................................              5
The First Haryana Irrigation Project ..............            6
Constraints to Irrigation Performance in Haryana ..           10
IL. PROJECT AREA ..........................................            11
Physical Features .......  .     ..........................   11
Climate and Soils                  ..                         11
Farmers and Land Holdings ..........................          12
Crops and Yields ...................................          12
Agricultural Supporting Services ......... .........          12
III. THE PROJECT ...........................................           13
Project Objectives and Major Features .............           13
Canal Modernization .....     ..........................      14
Watercourse Modernization              ..                     19
Augmentation Tubewells ..............  .. ............        23
Sprinkler Irrigation ...............  .. .............        25
Village Water Supply ..............................           26
Village Access Roads .............. .. ..............         27
Training      ....................... ...................     28
Research and Development and Technical Services ...           28
Project Implementation ............................           31
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
India in May, 1982 and comprised Messrs. R. Reidinger, Y.K. Choi, G. Corey,
H. Plusquellec and Ms. N. Pinto (IBRD), and Messrs. W. Barber, T. Wickham,
and S.G.V. Ramanan (Consultants). Messrs. J. Cunningham and D.D. Taneja
(IBRD) assisted the Mission in the field. Word processing was done by Mrs.
4. Aniba.



Page No.
IV.   COST ESTIMlATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS  ...                 .......       32
Project Cost Estimates  .....             .......................           32
Financing ...................                                               33
Procurement  ...... ...............             ..................          33
Disbursements .....................................                         34
Accounts and Audits  ...............          ..     ..............         35
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................                         36
General       ...........................................                   36
Coordination         ..................... .................                36
Project Management  ..................               ............           36
Operation and Maintenance .&  ............. .........                       40
Quality Control .................................                           42
Monitoring and Evaluation  ............           ..     ...........        42
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND BENEFITS  ..................                          43
Agricultural  Impact  ...............         ..     ..............         43
Market Prospects ....                                                       47
Financial Prices and Crop Budgets .........             ........            47
Water Charges and Cost Recovery                     .         .             47
Repayment  for Watercourse Modernization  ...........                       50
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..................                           51
General       ...........................................                   51
Benefits and Beneficiaries  ...........           .. ...........            51
Economic Analysis Assumptions  ..........           .. .........            52
Economic Rate of Return for the Project  ...........                        52
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks                     .         .              54
Environmental Impact  ..............          ..     ..............         55
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM!ENDATIONS  ....                  ..........       55



-iii-
Tables
1.     Seasonal Surface Irrigation Supply
2.     Estimate of Annual Groundwater Recharge and Use
3.     Achievement under Haryana Irrigation I Project
4.     Climatic Data
5.     Crop Yields, Present and Proiected Cropping Patterns
6.     Proposed Canal Modernization Program
7.     List of Proposed Canal Radio Stations
8.     Project Cost Estimates (Tables 8a-81)
9.     Estimated Financing Plan
10.     Procurement Schedules (Tables lOa-lOd)
11.     Estimated Implementation Schedule
12.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
13.     Allocation of the Credit
14.     Present Irrigated Area and Estimated Water Use
15.     Changes in Irrigated Area
16.     Crop Area Changes
17.     Incremental Production and Value
18.     Economic and Financial Prices
19.     Financial Crop Budgets
20.     Crop Input Requirements
21.     Revenue and Expenditure for Bhakra and WYC Systems
22.     Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
23.     Estimated Farm Budgets & Project Rent at Full Development
24.     Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery
25.     Incremental Costs and Benefits (Tables 25a-25e)
ANNEXES:
1.      Proposed Research and Development Studies and Experiments
2.      List of Documents in the Project File



-iv-
CHARTS:
Relevant Departments of tlhe Government of Haryana (24085)
Haryana Irrigation Department Organization Chart (24086)
HIaryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation (24087)
Details Showing Single and Double Tile Lining (24096)
Lining of Existing Channel versus Construction of Parallel
Channel (24098)
Typical Cross-Section of Lined Watercourse (24082)
Improved Turnout (Nukka) for Watercourse Modernization (24083)
Canal Regulation Pilot Proiect (24084)
Project Implementation Schedule (24097)
MAPS:
Canal Command Areas (1655:2)
Agro-climatic Zones and Groundwater Quality (16553)
Proiect Area and Irrigation Components (16554)
Typical Watercourse Commanld (16555)



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The major constraint to increased crop production in the State of
Haryana is limited irrigation supplies. Located in the northwest of India,
Haryana is mostly arid or semi-arid and depends heavily on irrigation. Avail-
able surface water resources have been fully developed or committed.
Groundwater development has been carried out aggressively by both the private
and public sector and is now nearing full exploitation. Further expansion of
agricultural production therefore will require improved efficiency and per-
formance of existing irrigation systems. The proposed Haryana Irrigation
II project would focus on this requirement.
1.02      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance to
finance the second four-year time-slice of the on-going first Haryana
Irrigation Project (Cr. 843-IN, referred to here as Haryana I) which is
expected to be completed by February 28, 1983. The proposed Haryana Irriga-
tion II Project (Haryana II) would finance primarily canal modernization,
watercourse modernization, augmentation tubewells, development of sprinkler
irrigation, and training and research all aimed at increasing the efficiency
and performance of the State's canal irrigation systems. The project would
also include investment in village water supply and a small village access
roads component. Haryana I has been well managed and the Government of
Haryana (GOH) has demonstrated strong implementation capabilities. Haryana
II would build on the experience and achievements of Haryana I, aiming in
particular at intensification of the irrigation modernization process. The
overall objective would be to improve the quality of canal irrigation service
for nearly 2.3 M ha of irrigated command area covering most of the State.
The project was prepared by GOH and the Project Preparation Cell in the
Central Water Commission of GOI.
Agriculture and Irrigation in India
1.03      India has a population of about 684 M which is growing at an annual
rate of about 2.1%. Since 1960, per capita income grew at an annual rate of
1.2% and reached US$240 in 1980. Although the average per capita income has
increased and access to public services has improved, there has in general
been little change in the incomes of the vast masses of urban and rural poor,
who comprise about 50% of the total population. Accordingly, GOI's develop-
ment plans give priority to alleviating poverty, increasing production and
incomes, and creating productive employment, especially in rural areas.



- 2 -
1.04      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 45% of India's exports. GOI has devoted con-
siderable resources to agricultural development, especially irrigation.
1.05      Irrigation development has been given a very high priority since
the beginning of the planning era in 1950. Some 57 M ha were developed by
1980/81, of which about 58% receive water from surface sources and 42% from
groundwater, and in recent years, irrigated area has been expanding by about
2-3 M ha annually. It is estimated that the increased production resulting
from investment in irrigation has accounted for at least three-quarters of
agricultural growth since 1960. Presently, irrigated agriculture accounts
for about 60% of all agricultural output in India. However, production
levels in much of the irrigated area, especially the area irrigated from
surface sources, is considerably lower than the potential for a number of
reasons.
1.06      At independence, Indian irrigation systems commanded some 23 M ha.
Many of these systems were planned to provide famine protection, had limited
or no storage and did not have sufficient water control structures and
capability. Water supply from such systems was largely unreliable. In
addition, irrigation projects of the early 1960s typically involved a storage
or diversion dam and main conveyance system only, leaving to the farmers
construction of the distribution system from project outlets to individual
fields. As some of these outlets served areas in excess of 100 or 200 ha,
conveyance of water to the farmgate required construction of minor channel
networks that were often several kiLlometers long. In most projects, farmers
were unable to finance or organize construction of the minor channels without
outside assistance, which was rareLy available, and this resulted in con-
siderable delays in the utilization of water from the irrigation potential
created.
1.07      In the early 1970s, the concept of the Command Area Development
Authority (CADA) evolved. The main objectives of CADA were to coordinate
the activities of the State Irrigation and Agriculture Departments and to
assist farmers in obtaining institutional credit for the construction of the
minor systems and for land development. The results of this approach have
been below expectations. Coordinaltion was not entirely effective, and the
attempt to finance on-farm development through institutional credit
(generally refinanced through the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, or ARDC 1/) was generally unsuccessful, because farmers had no
confidence in the reliability of water supply and were therefore reluctant to
undertake loan obligations, and because no facility or framework for effec-
tive group action had been developed in the irrigation sector. This
experience indicates that: (a) more emphasis is required on improving the
1/ ARDC ceased to exist as of July 12, 1982. The refinance functions and
obligations of ARDC were assumed by the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD), a COI undertaking which was formally con-
stituted on the above date.



- 3 -
efficiency and reliability of the conveyance system from the water source to
the irrigation outlets; (b) Government should assume greater responsibility
for conveying water to an outlet closer to the farmgate in order to
facilitate construction of watercourses conveying water to each individual
field; and (c) Government should promote the development of effective farmer
involvement by providing the necessary mechanism, framework and support for
efficient group action and cooperation among irrigators. There are clear
indications that when the farmers are fully confident of their water supply,
increased cooperation is encouraged, and they will undertake investments in
modern inputs and make full use of the water supplied. These concepts have
been used in the design of the proposed proiect.
The State of Haryana
1.08      Haryana has a population of about 12.8 M.  In 1977/78, the State's
Domestic Product reached Rs 18,800 M, and per capita income at nearly
Rs 1,500 in 1977/78 is one of the highest in India and has been growing at a
rate of about 12% annually in recent years. The State has made significant
development progress since it split from the Punjab in 1966, and continues to
progress rapidly in expanding its economic base and providing access to
public services. Today, for example, all villages have electricity, most
villages have all-weather access roads, and most farmers have access to at
least some irrigation. About 78% of the population is employed in the rural
sector, and average farm family size is six. Agriculture is the dominant
sector in the Haryana economy, and Haryana is regarded as an agriculturally
advanced State. Because the state is generally arid and semi-arid, irriga-
tion is essential for high agricultural production, and the State has
invested considerable resources in irrigation as the basis to promote
agricultural growth. Today, among the States of India, Haryana ranks second
after the Punjab in terms of area irrigated as a proportion of total cropped
area.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Haryana
1.09      Agriculture.  Haryana covers an area of about 4.4 M ha, of which
3.9 M ha is arable. Of this about 3.6 M ha or 92% (the total of two seasons)
is sown with crops and the balance remains fallow mainly due to lack of
water. About 75% of the arable area totalling some 2.9 M ha of cultivable
command area (CCA) is served by irrigation canals although only about 55%
(the total of two seasons) of the CCA is actually irrigated in a year because
of insufficient water supplies available for the canal systems. Haryana
farmers are generally progressive, as indicated by the high levels of fer-
tilizer use in the State and the high percentage of area of major crops sown
in high-yielding varieties. Yields of most major crops, therefore, are high,
and average foodgrain yields in Haryana are some 30-40% higher than the
all-India average. The main foodgrains are bajra or pearl millet (about 35%
of the area), wheat (25%) gram or chick pea (19%), and paddy (7%). Cotton is
the major non-food cash crop, accounting for 13% of the sown area. The
present cropping intensity in Haryana is estimated overall at 140-145%. As a
result of the increase in agricultural production, the State which had
deficit in foodgrains before 1966 was now surplus in foodgrains.  In 1980/81,



Ilaryana contributed about 1.7 M tons (out of total production of 6.1 M tons)
of wheat and rice to the GOI foodgrain procurement pool.
1.10      In spite of rapid progress made in agriculture since its partition
from Puniab in 1966, the State is constrained by limited availability of
agricultural lands which can be served by gravity canals, and especially by
lack of surface water and groundwater resources for further agricultural and
irrigation development. Therefore, the main potential source of agricultural
growth depends upon the better use of available irrigation water, increase in
cropping intensity, and application of modern farm technology to raise yields
per unit of area and production per unit of water. Improvement in the
efficiency and performance of canal irrigation is an essential requirement
for continued agricultural growth in the State, and is the primary objective
of the proposed project.
1.11      Surface Irrigation. Canal irrigation in Haryana comprises mainly
the vast Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal (WYC) systems covering much of the
State, plus the relatively new pump-lift canal systems in the western and
southwest regions which are served from the WYC system and the mainly
non-perennial Agra/Gurgaon canal systems in the south (Map 16552). Bhakra
and WYC, the two major gravity systems in this State, provide irrigation to
some 63% of the cropped area or about 1.0 M ha and 0.7 3M ha respectively.
Averaged together, the two systems supply about 5700 m  per irrigated hectare
each year (Table 1). The Bhakra Main Canal, completed in the late 1950s, is
supplied 3from the large Bhakra Dam, which was completed in 1963 with some
7,200 Mm of storage on the Sutlel River in the Indus River Basin. The
Narwana Branch Canal from the Bhakra Main Canal links the Bhakra and WYC
systems. NWYC, constructed on its present alignment in the 1820s and first
built by the moghul emperor Feroz Shah Tuglag in about 1355 and later
renovated by Akbar and Shahjehan in the 1500s and 1600s, diverts water at
Tajewala from the upper Yamuna River which is a tributary of the Ganga River.
A second diversion from the Yamuna River at Okhla below Delhi supplies the
Agra/Gurgaon Canal system which serves a smaller area in the southeastern
corner of the State with mainly non-perennial water supplies.
1.12      The Bhakra-Nangal faci:Lities on the Sutlej River, which supply
Bhakra canals in Haryana, are a major source of irrigation and power in
northwest India, serving Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan (Map 16552). Below
the Bhakra Dam is the sma1l Nangal Dam and reservoir used for balancing
diurnal variations in water releases from Bhakra; the hydel channel which
supplies Bhakra canals in Haryana offtakes at Nangal.  Under the Sutlej, Beas
and Ravi Masterplan (non-Bank), 1the Beas-Sutlej Link canal has been con-
structed to supply water to Bhakra from the Beas River which is controlled by
the Pong Dam. The Ravi River would be controlled by the proposed Thein Dam
and linked to the Beas via the Madhopur-Beas Link canal (non-project). The
Masterplan is a joint undertaking of GOI and the States concerned, and the
facilities are managed under the auspices of GOI by the Bhakra-Beas Manage-
ment Board (BBMB) located in Chandigarh.
1.13      The State's only remaining unutilized surface water source is its
share of the Ravi River water allocated to the State based on the division of
Indus River waters between India and Pakistan under the Indus Waters Treaty



- 5 -
of 1960. The Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal, now under construction and due
for completion in 1984, will augment canal water supplies in Haryana by
nearly 50%. It will benefit primarily the WYC command, particularly the new
pump-lift areas, which are served from the tail reaches of the WYC system and
are acutely short of water, and to a lesser extent the Bhakra and Gurgaon
systems. T e pump-lift command areas, comprising the Sewani, Jui, Loharu,
and Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) schemes, total over 450,000 ha. Canal construc-
tion is complete for about 210,000 ha in the Sewani, Jui and Loharu commands.
However, in these areas construction of watercourses and on-farm development
work have proceeded relatively slowly due primarily to limited water
availability, extremely rugged terrain, and sandy soils.
1.14      The CCA served by the various canal systems in Haryana and the net
area irrigated by each averaged over last five years total some 2.9 M ha and
1.6 M ha, respectively, as follows:
Canal                CCA             Irrigated Area
System                ha                   ha
Bhakra           1,166,000                871,000
WYC              1,085,000                652,000
Jui Lift            30,000                 12,000
Sewani Lift /a      72,000                 14,000
Loharu Lift 7@    125,000                  11,000
JLN Lift           227,000                 18,000
Agra                61,000                 32,000
Gurgaon            131,000                 15,000
Total        2,897,000               1,625,000
/a Earlier called BNC scheme.
/b Earlier called Indira Gandhi scheme.
1.15      Groundwater.  Groundwater development in Haryana has progressed
rapidly in the last fifteen years, particularly in the private sector. Cur-
rently about 223,000 private shallow tubewells, 34,500 open wells with pump
sets, and 1,560 public direct irrigation tubewells serve about 1.4 M ha.
Bank Group support has been available for private tubewell development
through the Haryana Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 249-IN) which was fully
disbursed in the early 1970s and also through the nationwide Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) Projects (Cr. 540-IN, Cr.
715-IN, Cr. 947-IN and Cr. 1209-IN Ln. 2995-IN). Present utilization of
fresh (high to marginal quality) groundwater is estimated statewide at about
64% of average recharge, but in certain fresh groundwater areas, resources
are more highly committed (Table 2). However, there still remains con-
siderable scope for public sector development in some areas of fresh and
marginal groundwater quality, and in brackish water areas provided the lower
quality brackish groundwater can be diluted with canal water supplies.
Groundwater will be developed under the project to augment canal water sup-
plies in several areas where uncommitted groundwater supplies are available.



- 6 -
1.16      Groundwater quantity and quality varies considerably through the
State (Map 16553). In the eastern regions of the State, fresh groundwater
supplies are generally available at: depths of about 3-6 m. Private exploita-
tion there has been heavy, and in some locations water table levels have
adjusted to modified abstraction patterns. In the western interior basin of
the State, groundwater is generally deeper, perhaps 15 to 20 m on average,
and is generally brackish or saline except where freshwater lenses have
developed in the vicinity of larger elements of the surface distribution
system. Due to the increase in canal irrigation in the western areas par-
ticularly during the last 20 years, with high seepage losses from unlined
canals and deep percolation from farmers' fields, the groundwater balance has
been disturbed with increased recharge, and saline groundwater levels have
been rising at an average rate in some areas of about 0.5 m per year. Brack-
ish groundwater areas in eastern and western regions account for about 60% of
the total CCA of the Bhakra and WYC systems. Investments under the proposed
project will address this matter primarily through efforts to increase the
efficiency of water delivery and use under canal irrigation, and through
research and investigation to provide a basis for recommending and designing
remedial measures considering both the impact of modernization efforts and
additional water supplies expected from the SYL canal.
The First Haryana Irrigation Projecat
1.17      Background and Summary of Progress.  The first Haryana Irrigation
Project (Cr. 843-IN) has assisted the State to modernize about 30% of its
canal irrigation network, develop supplemental groundwater to augment canal
surface water supplies, and promote the development of irrigation in
pump-lift areas. It has also helped accelerate construction of associated
rural infrastructure comprising village water supply, rural roads and
agricultural markets. The project was appraised by IDA in December, 1977.
Based on estimated project costs of US$222 M, the project was financed by an
IDA credit of US$111 M. The project became effective December 14, 1978 with
an expected completion date of August 31, 1982 and closing date of August 31,
1983.
1.18      Progress on most project components has been satisfactory (Table
3). It is expected that all physical appraisal targets will be achieved by
February 28, 1983 except for watercourse lining, markets, and land levelling
which were financed as credit items. These components suffered start-up
delays while working out a methodology for sanctioning of credit for each
sub-project by ARDC. In the case of watercourse lining and markets, no
construction was done during the first 4-6 months of the project, putting
these components behind schedule from the start. Subsequent shortages of
cement and coal further delayed implementation. The land levelling component
for the pump-lift areas never seriously started because most farmers
preferred to use their own resources for land levelling rather than institu-
tional credit.
1.19      In order to complete all expenditures under the project by
February 28, 1983, some funds may need to be reallocated under the credit
from watercourse lining, land levelling and tubewell electrification to canal
modernization work to cover cost overruns under canal modernization due to



- 7 -
higher than expected costs for cement and lining tile. In addition, excess
funds from the agricultural markets component may need to be reallocated to
village water supply schemes. All such changes would require IDA approval.
The markets component would be completed under alternative arrangements by
GOH using readily available market committee funds; markets are not included
in the proposed second-phase Haryana II project. Land levelling has also
been excluded from Haryana II because of lack of farmer interest during
Haryana I. The shortfall in watercourse lining has been taken into account
in designing Haryana II.
1.20      Implementation Organization.  Under Haryana I, implementation of
canal lining works was the responsibility of the GOH Irrigation Department
(ID). The public sector Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corpora-
tion (HSMITC), in practice an arm of ID, had responsibility for watercourse
lining and augmentation tubewells. Other components and the agency respon-
sible were: land levelling -- Command Area Development (CAD) wing of the
Agriculture Department; village water supply -- Public Health (PH) Branch of
the Public Works Department (PWD); village access roads -- Buildings and
Roads (B&R) Branch of PWD; and agricultural markets -- State Marketing Board
and individual market committees.
1.21      Cost Estimates.  Estimated project costs totalled Rs 1,909.1 M
(US$222.0 M) at appraisal. Unit costs for canal and watercourse lining have
been much higher than anticipated at appraisal. During the project period,
labor costs rose faster than anticipated, and the cost of lining tiles
increased by 100%. As a result, actual costs and disbursements under the
canal lining component at project completion will be some 32% over appraisal.
However, because of the short-fall in physical achievement under watercourse
lining and land levelling and cost savings for tubewell electrification,
disbursements for those components will total about 35% less than
anticipated. These reductions will roughly match the excess costs for canal
lining. Similarly, costs for water supply schemes exceeded appraisal
estimates by about 15% due to design modifications and improvements.
1.22      Design Standards and Quality Control.  Design standards on all
components have complied with the Project Agreement. During the coal
shortage some precast concrete slab canal lining was used in place of clay
tiles (coal is used to make the burnt clay tiles used in canal lining). In
addition, since removal of the cement supply constraint, lining with two
layers of cement plaster has been adopted. Several tests have been made to
replace the impervious plaster layer with a polythene membrane. This tech-
nology is undergoing further tests before adoption on a large scale.
1.23      Quality control has remained excellent throughout the project.
Although canal lining is done in existing channels during normal operational
canal closures of about 16 days duration, strict quality control has been
maintained, and the resulting lining is excellent. To improve the quality of
canal lining tiles, ID is installing 5 automatic kilns to make tiles. Both
ID and HSMITC established Monitoring and Evaluation Cells under the Haryana I
project. These units, although requiring considerable time to develop, have
played a key role in gathering and analyzing data regarding quality control.



- 8 -
1.24      Implementation Capacity.  Appraisal estimates of implementation
capacity were accurate for canal lining, augmentation tubewells, water supply
schemes and village roads. However, estimates proved somewhat optimistic
for watercourse lining, given the unexpectedly long start up period,
materials shortages, and cash flow and liquidity constraints faced by HSMITC
during the course of implementation. Similarly, the markets and land levell-
ing components were not completed on schedule for reasons unrelated to
implementation capacity which could not be anticipated at appraisal (para
1.18). Implementation constraints encountered in Haryana I have now been
largely resolved and have been considered in the design of Haryana II.
1.25      Issues Considered in Appraisal of Haryana II.  Several issues in
the appraisal of Haryana II arose from experience with Haryana I, related
in particular to the project SCOpE!, transition from Haryana I to Haryana II,
and cost recovery for watercourse modernization and O&M of village water
supply schemes. Modification in project scope from Haryana I to II are
primarily the exclusion of markets and land leveling components from Haryana
II (para 1.19). Transition to Haryana II is complicated by the fact that
Haryana I was not designed as a time-slice project, although in practice it
has been implemented (and viewed by GOH) as a time-slice operation. Transi-
tion arrangements are based on completing all expenditures under Haryana I by
February 28, 1983, with reallocat:ion as needed among credit categories
including unallocated; in general, savings and underspending for watercour-
ses, land leveling and tubewells would be reallocated to canal modernization,
while underspending on agricultural markets would be reallocated to water
supply schemes (paras 1.19 and 1.21). These reallocations will not sig-
nificantly affect the productive performance of the project.
1.26      Under Haryana I, cost recovery for watercourse modernization was
complicated by the financing arrangements which were directly linked to loan
recovery. Watercourse costs were financed through loans to all farmers
served by each watercourse.  In practice, the loans were actually made to
HSMITC which constructed the watercourses on behalf of the farmers served;
80% of the construction cost for each watercourse was financed through
institutional credit (refinanced by ARDC) lending to HSMITC, with the remain-
ing 20% provided by GOH as a State loan or equity contribution to HSMITC.
Farmers were held individually responsible for repayment of the total cost of
each watercourse in proportion to their land holding size, with repayments
based on amortization over nine years at 10.5% interest excluding one year of
grace for the construction period (the same terms as those applied to HSMITC
by participating banks); watercourse maintenance work was the responsibility
of HSMITC, paid for by the farmers through an annual maintenance charge (2%
of the watercourse capital cost) added to the loan amortization payment.
Although it was the de facto borrower, HSMITC essentially acted as a credit
intermediary. Billing to farmers for loan repayment was done by HSMITC, but



- 9 -
collection of farmer payments was done by GOH (which also guaranteed repay-
ment of the lending banks' loans) through the Revenue Department which
handled nonpayment as arrears in land revenue. 1/
1.27      Under this approach and at GOH initiative, 100% cost recovery for
watercourse modernization was the aim. Prior to and early in Haryana I,
repayment rates by farmers for watercourse modernization loans were high,
exceeding 90%.  However, following a severe drought and failure of the 1979
monsoon it became apparent that many farmers, particularly small holders,
would not be able to meet their repayment obligations. In addition, GOH
considered that watercourse modernization results in a substantial increase
in irrigated area and water charge collections, and also that under revised
national policies for similar CAD works in other States farmers were not
required to repay the full cost. Furthermore, the procedures used appear to
have encouraged controversy, in that farmers had to pay for the works in
proportion to their land holding size rather than their benefit (unlike water
charges which are levied according to area irrigated), and that once a deci-
sion was made to improve a watercourse the process was essentially involun-
tary for the farmers involved who had little or no role in planning or
implementing the works and no option to refuse or modify such investments and
loans "on their behalf". GOH therefore decided to modify repayment require-
ments, eliminating repayment for farms of 1 ha or less and reducing repayment
by 50% for farms larger than 1 ha. These arrangements were intended to be
consistent with revised norms for GOI-sponsored CAD programs. Considering
all farm sizes together, repayment would average about 45% under this for-
mula, with GOH providing the remaining 55% directly to HSMITC. Because of
the sensitivity and controversy of this issue, GOH has not effectively
enforced any repayment during the last two years, and only in February 1982,
made these modifications official; as a result repayment rates during the
last two years were negligible. However, GOH has started implementing the
new system in the 1982 kharif season and has also strengthened its efforts to
recover arrears in repayments. In general, farmers in the project area
appear willing to repay following the above terms.
1.28      Under Haryana II, cost recovery for watercourse modernization works
would be effected through the Revenue Department of GOH as a direct charge to
benefitting farmers, and financing would be through GOH rather than loans to
farmers. GOH would recover about 45% (50% from farm holdings of more than 1
ha, and nothing from smallholders of 1 ha or less) of watercourse modern-
ization costs from direct beneficiaries over a nine year period at 10.5%
interest, plus an annual watercourse maintenance charge (3% of capital costs
1/  The approach of lending to farmers to finance construction of such "com-
munity" irrigation works was consistent with standard practice throughout
India for CAD programs including watercourse construction at the time
Haryana I was appraised. However, the practice has since been modified
because of the generally disappointing results obtained. The present
practice is to complete watercourse construction down to the 5 to 8 ha
block as part of the government system, with the cost financed through
the State budget rather than through loans to farmers.



-- 10 -
in Haryana II), as above. GOH would provide the remaining 55% and ensure
that HSMITC receives financing adequate to undertake watercourse modern-
ization works according to the project implementation schedule over the
four-year project period.
1.29      For village water supply schemes under Haryana I, the present
practice, instituted in January 1982, is that individual village panchayats
(councils) pay operation and maintenance (O&M) costs up to half their annual
revenues. At present this totals about 45% of full O&M costs. GOH will
ensure full O&M cost recovery from village panchayats for village water
supply schemes under Haryana II.
1.30      Benefits of Haryana I.  Both ID and HSMITC now have Monitoring and
Evaluation Units. These units have just recently been fully staffed, and
only preliminary studies have been completed on the benefits from the various
project components. Several of these studies have dealt with effects of
canal and watercourse lining. In general, they tend to confirm the benefits
of canal lining estimated at appraisal in terms of seepage loss reductions,
although results so far indicate that the initial direct benefit in irrigated
area increase from watercourse lining may have been slightly overestimated.
The studies have also tentatively begun to measure improvements in canal
system operational efficiency which were not quantified in the Haryana I
appraisal due to lack of data, and have identified changes in agricultural
practices reportedly due to increased quantity and reliability of water
supplies, such as increased fertilizer use, crop pattern changes and higher
yields. The main difficulties so far in documenting project benefits are in
measuring the operational benefits from canal and watercourse modernization
and lining which may well equal or exceed direct benefits from reduced canal
seepage; also, the disaggregation of benefits as to source is difficult
because the canal system is undergoing modernization concurrently with normal
operations. Estimation of benefits expected from Haryana II take into
account the experience of studies under Haryana I.
Constraints to Irrigation Performance in Haryana
1.31      The performance of canal irrigation in Haryana generally ranks
among the highest in India. Nevertheless, a great potential for enhanced
performance remains untapped which can be developed by raising the physical
capabilities of the canal systems, and by improving equipment and modifying
operational procedures to increase the efficiency of canal system management.
Major constraints to improved performance (neglecting Bhakra-Nangal operating
procedures) which the project will deal with through investment or R&D
activities include the following:
(a)  canal networks which by design are very extensive and chronic-
ally water-short and which in addition incur high seepage
losses because channels are unlined;
(b)  canal regulation technology which is based completely on
upstream control and manual operation, resulting in slow
response of the system to changing water supply and demand;



- 11 -
(c) canal communications equipment which is slow and frequently
out of order;
(d) canal operating procedures using target capacity factors which
are not closely related to actual or estimated crop water use,
and canal rotational schedules which interact to produce
unreliability and uncertainty in water deliveries to farmers;
(e) canal administration practices and legislation which do not
provide mechanisms and an institutional framework to promote
development of effective farmer involvement and participation;
and
(f) canal operating staff who are competent but generally not
trained and oriented in agriculture and crop water requirements.
II. PROJECT AREA
Physical Features
2.01      The project area stretches north from Delhi about 150 km to the
Ghaggar River bordering on Punjab, and west from the Yamuna River about 150
km to the Rajasthan border. It covers the entire command of the Bhakra and
WYC systems totalling nearly 2.3 M ha, along with part of the Jui and Sewani
pump-lift commands totalling some 69,000 ha on the southwestern side of the
area (Map 16554). The project area is nearly 70% level plain, with undulat-
ing terrain in the southwestern region where the pump-lift schemes are
located. Natural drainage from the interior basin in the middle and western
portions of the area is very limited.
Climate and Soils
2.02      Climate in the project area is sub-tropical and generally arid in
the west and semi-arid in the east (Map 16553). Three distinct seasons
exist: the kharif or wet season from late June to early October, the rabi or
dry season from mid-October to early April, and the hot weather season from
mid-April to mid-June. The mean monthly temperature ranges from about 13
degrees C in January to 34 degrees C in June, and mid-day temperatures some-
times exceed 45 degrees C in the hot season. The average rainfall of the
area varies from about 300-400 mm in the west to 960 mm in the east. About
75% of the rain falls in the wet season, with the wettest month August and
the driest April (Table 4). Predominant soils of the project area are sands
in pump-lift areas, sands and sandy loams in the northern and western Bhakra
and WYC areas, and loams in the eastern WYC areas. Nearly 85% of irrigation
works proposed under the project will be located in sandy and sandy loam
areas where seepage loss rates from canals and watercourses are high.



- 12 -
Farmers and Land Holdings
2.03      The farmers of the project area are generally progressive and
energetic. Of the 913,000 farmholdings in Haryana, about 81% are owned and
self-operated, 12% are rented and 7% are partly owned and rented. Average
farm size is about 3.8 ha statewide, 4.6 ha in the Bhakra command and 3.6 ha
in the WYC command. In terms of number of holdings, farms below 1 ha in size
account for about 31% of the total in the Bhakra command and 42% in the WYC
command; however, less than 4% of the area is in holdings of 1 ha or less in
both Bhakra and WYC areas. The permissible land ceiling per household under
current law is 7.25 ha for land with assured irrigation where the possibility
of double cropping exists, and 10.9 ha on land producing only a single crop.
Crops and Yields
2.04      The irrigated crops grown in the areas are mainly bajra (pearl
millet), cotton and paddy in the k;harif (wet) season and wheat, gram (chick
pea) and mustard during the rabi (dry) season (Table 5). Bajra, gram and to
some extent mustard are drought resistant crops and are often grown by
farmers in the project area as a hedge against uncertain canal water
supplies, in addition to cotton and wheat, for example, which are more
profitable but also more drought sensitive. The most common cropping
sequences are bajra-wheat, bajra-gram and cotton-fallow; fallow-wheat is also
practiced. Considering both rabi and kharif seasons together, the Bhakra
area has higher irrigation intensity (88%) than the WYC area (64%), while the
WYC has higher rainfed. intensity (73%) than the Bhakra area (50%) because of
more favorable rainfall patterns ;prevailing in the eastern region where the
WYC system is concentrated (Map 15553).
2.05      Average yields in Haryana for major foodgrain crops are among the
highest in India; for example, 3.4 t/ha compared to the national average of
1.8 t/ha for paddy, and 2.1 t/ha compared to the national average of 1.4 t/ha
for wheat. Haryana farmers make heavy use of high yielding varieties (about
93% for wheat, 92% for paddy and 70% for bajra) and fertilizer (currently
averaging 64 kg/ha, nutrient basis). Nevertheless, yields are far below
their potential for these crops under irrigated conditions. A major objec-
tive of modernization works under the proposed project is to improve the
quality of irrigation service, particularly the reliability and timing of
water deliveries, thereby enabling Haryana farmers to better utilize the
potential of modern agricultural technology.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.06      Agricultural supporting services in the project area are
well-developed and considered adequate to support developments under the
proposed project. The Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) located in
Hissar provides agricultural education and research for the entire State.
HAU is also the main center for the all-India coordinated research project on
water management and soil salinity, with the major objective being develop-
ment of technology for efficient use of irrigation water. The Training and
Visit system of agricultural extension was introduced into Haryana in early
1979 assisted by IDA under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project



- 13 -
(Cr. 862-IN) to intensify extension services. A close linkage exists between
the extension service and research provided by HANJ. Production and distribu-
tion of high quality seeds and the supply of fertilizer and agro-chemicals
are well developed in the project area, as are marketing, processing, storage
and transport facilities.
2.07      The agricultural credit system in Haryana is highly organized and
effectively managed. Loan recovery rates in recent years have been satisfac-
tory, with about 75% recovery for short- and medium-term production credit
and 90% for long-term loans. Farmers, in general, have adequate access to
institutional credit facilities for their agricultural operations. Credit is
provided through commercial banks, land development banks and cooperative
banks with offices spread throughout the area. Refinancing of agricultural
credit in the project area has been provided by ARDC and will continue to be
provided by NABARD, which has replaced ARDC. Concurrently with the proposed
proiect, credit institutions and banks in the project area will organize a
credit consortium to further strengthen credit services in the project area.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Major Features
3.01      The proposed project focuses on modernization of the Bhakra and
Western Yamuna Canal (W4YC) systems, respectively serving nearly 1.2 M ha and
1.1 M ha of command area. It aims to improve conveyance, distribution and
operational efficiencies of the systems, augment water supplies available to
the canal network, and improve the equity and reliability of water distribu-
tion within the systems. Project components are:
(a)  Modernization of Canals -- lining of about 250 million ft
of canal sarface (equivalent to about 2,900 km of branch,
distributary and minor canals) in the Bhakra and WYC gravity
canal systems, improvement and modernization of canal struc-
tures and regulation equipment, and installation of a two-
way radio network to improve canal communications;
(b)  Modernization of Watercourses -- lining and improvement of
structures for watercourses totalling about 23.0 million
running ft (20 million running ft in gravity areas and 3.0
million running ft in pump-lift areas);
(c)  Augmentation Tubewells -- installation and electrification of
325 augmentation tubewells, each of about 1.75 cfs capacity;
(d)  Sprinkler Irrigation -- installation of 100 sprinkler sets
as an expanded pilot project primarily in the sandy pump-lift
areas;



- 14 -
(e)  Village Water Supply Systems -- construction of about 120
water supply systems to serve some 360 "scarcity" villages
located in the project command areas;
(f)  Village Access Roads -- construction of about 196 km of
all-weather access roads connecting 111 villages to major
roads;
(g)  Training -- development of a long-range manpower training
program in the Irrigation Department for in-service and new
recruit training; and
(h)  Research and Development and Technical Services  -- support
of pilot projects, experiLments and studies related to modern-
ization activities and aimed at raising efficiency and
performance standards of canal irrigation in Haryana.
Canal Modernization
3.02      The project would finance canal lining, improvement of water
regulation facilities, and installation of a two-way radio network for
improved communications.
3.03      Canal Lining.  Some 2,859 km of canal length on about 285 different
channels in the Bhakra and WYC systems would be lined. The unlined wetted
perimeter to be lined would total approximately 250 M ft2, equivalent to 212
M ft2 on a lined basis (Table 6). The Bhakra and WYC systems comprise in
total about 8,900 km of channel length. Prior to Haryana I, about 700 km had
been lined. Haryana I completed (or will complete by February 28, 1983)
approximately 2,700 km of additional lining. Upon completion of Haryana II,
a total of some 6,200 km of channels or about 70% of the Bhakra and WYC
systems will be lined, as follows:
--------------Length of Canal Lining---------------
Lined        Lining             Lining
Name of       Before      Completed          Proposed       Lining
Canal     Haryana I    Haryana I          Haryana II        Total
System        km             km                km              km
Bhakra       344            1,378              1,545         3,267
WYC          340 /a         1,294              1,314         2,948
Total     684            2,672               2,859         6,215
/a  An additional 1,517 km of canals were lined in lift areas
fed by the WYC system.
3.04      The practice in Haryana has been to line existing canals, rather
than construct new parallel (lined) channels as in the Punjab. To undertake
lining works, canal rotational schedules are organized to provide 16 day
closure periods during the November to June construction period, resulting in
approximately 100 working days for canal lining works per year. However, the
actual number of full closures obtained depends very much on the amount of
water supplied to the system, and closure periods are particularly limited in



- 15 -
the Bhakra system which averages about 278 annual running days compared to
WYC with 200 running days. The need for lining in the Bhakra System is
particularly urgent because of high seepage losses in sandy areas, brackish
and rising groundwater, and the likelihood of increasing difficulties in
obtaining sufficient closure periods in the future due to additional water
supplies expected from the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal.
3.05      The Bhakra system therefore would receive special priority in
implementation of the lining work. In places where obtaining sufficient
closure periods is difficult lining works would be done by constructing
parallel channels, particularly for larger canals (Chart 24098). Comparative
cost studies indicate that the costs for lining existing canals and con-
structing parallel lined channels are approximately equal in the case of
larger canals. Parallel lined canals have been constructed satisfactorily
under Haryana I where closures could not be obtained. For WYC, Haryana I
procedures are satisfactory, and lining would be done on existing channels.
3.06      Design of lining works would follow the detailed criteria adopted
by GOH and used effectively during Haryana I. Design criteria would depend
on the capacity of the channel and on the construction methods appropriate to
the site. Two basic designs will generally be used (Chart 24096):
(a) for canals with capacities up to 2,000 cfs -- a single-
tile lining comprising a single layer of 5 cm-thick burnt
clay tiles bedded in 1:3 cement mortar, over a layer of 1:3
cement plaster, over a 1:5 cement plaster layer on a compacted
sub-grade. The 1:3 cement plaster layer is the seepage barrier,
with the tiles providing mechanical protection. Where neces-
sary, mechanical protection may be provided by pre-cast
concrete slabs; in addition, polyethelene film may be substi-
tuted for the 1:3 cement plaster layer. The thickness of the
1:3 cement plaster seepage barrier will vary from 10 mm for
smaller channels to 16 mm for channels up to 2,000 cfs; and
(b)  for canals with capacities above 2,000 cfs -- a double-tile
lining with four layers, comprising 5 cm burnt clay tiles
bedded in 1:3 cement mortar, over 1:3 cement plaster, over
a second layer of 5 cm clay tiles, over 1:5 cement plaster
on a compacted sub-grade. Canal beds would have single-tile
linings except under high water table conditions where
double tile lining would be used.
3.07      Burnt clay tiles are generally the preferred lining material.
Approximately 5 improved automatic tile kilns each costing an estimated
Rs 750,000 (US$83,300) with modern tile molding equipment would be set up
under the project to manufacture high quality clay tiles to uniform stand-
ards.
3.08      Water Control and Regulation.  Improved water control and regula-
tion capabilities are essential for more efficient management of the Bhakra
and WYC Systems. Many existing control structures were designed to outdated
standards which do not enable the degree of water regulation required in the



- 16 -
systems today for efficient and timely distribution and delivery of irriga-
tion supplies; in addition, some structures are in poor operating condition
and have reached the end of their useful life. Project modernization works
would include replacement of canal regulators on all canals over 100 cfs in
size and on an estimated 50% of smaller canals, installation of water measur-
ing devices in the head reaches of larger channels, remodelling of 5,550
watercourse outlets, provision for added escapes as needed, and remodelling
of falls, as well as the construction of ancillary facilities including cow
ghats, bridges, and buildings.
3.09      Design of water regulation and control facilities would provide for
future upgrading of canal system performance capabilities through the intro-
duction of technologies for improved canal control. Design standards needed
to accommodate future upgrading requirements may include: radial gates with
gearing mechanism and designed for eventual mechanization with electric
motors, particularly in larger canals; canals with their cross-regulation
structures constructed with sufficient freeboard to accommodate in the future
level-top canal banks for approximately 40% of the canal reach just upstream
of each structure; and cross-regulators spaced to avoid excessively long
unregulated reaches of canal. For efficient water regulation and control,
direct outlets on larger canals would be eliminated where feasible. Agreement
has been reached that GOH will develop by December 31, 1983 new or improved
design standards for modernization of canals and water regulation facilities
to adequately reflect operational requirements.
3.10      Canal Communications System.  Canal communications would be
upgraded through the installation of a two-way radio network. The present
canal communications system uses telegraph and magneto (local communication)
telephones to connect some 100 stations at major regulation and control
points.. Essentially without modification this system has been in operation
for the last 100 years and cannot cope with modern-day requirements for
accurate and rapid canal regulation. Field reports indicate that the system
is undependable and out ot order 25 - 35% of the time, often when it is most
needed (as when canal breaches occur). Fast and dependable communications
are required in order to improve canal system operations and management
efficiency.
3.11      The project would provide for two-way radio sets for voice com-
munication between approximately 22 of the most important stations in the
Bhakra and WYC systems as a first step in upgrading canal communications (Map
16554). The stations to be upgraded'are located at regulation points for
water supplies for main canals of the Bhakra and WVYC systems (including
pump-lift areas served by the WYC system), important cross-drainage points,
and locations involving inter-State water regulation (Table 7).  GOH has
applied to the GOI Post and Telegraphs Department (P&T) for allotment of a
frequency, and P&T has agreed to provide base station two-way radio sets on a
rent and guarantee basis at the rate annually of Rs 36,400 (US$4,044) for
each set. Radio units will be housed at existing communications facilities,
and operated by existing signalling staff. The project would also provide
for about 50 additional hand-held units and the services of a local consult-
ant to assist with planning of the canal communications network to maximize



- 17 -
system management and operational efficiency. P&T has indicated that fre-
quencies between 68-88 MHz or 146-174 MHz may be available for the network.
GOH has initiated a feasibility study on which basis the final allocation of
frequency band(s) would be made. Assurances were provided by GOI and GOH
that the feasibility study would be completed by April 30, 1983, and that
depending on the results of the study the system would be set up by June 30,
1984.
3.12      Benefits of Canal Lining and Modernization.  A primary benefit of
the canal lining program is to save water through a reduction in seepage
losses. Any water saved through lining is of high value, as the canal systems
were originally designed to be "water short". Water availability at the
headworks is sufficient to irrigate only about 35 to 40% of the area com-
manded each season, and consequently any added or saved water in the system
can be immediately used by farmers with little or no additional investment.
3.13      Savings in seepage losses depend on soil type; sandier soils which
predominate in the Bhakra command generally have somewhat higher seepage
losses than the more loamy soils in the eastern part of the WYC command.
Measurements of seepage losses for unlined and lined channels have been made
experimentally under Haryana I on some 32 scattered channels in sandy loam
and loam soils, representing typical conditions in the project area. Average
results of these experiments are as follows:
--Seepage Losses--      Seepage Reduction
cfs/M sq.ft.           due to Lining
Soil Type    Unlined       Lined         cfs/M sq.ft.
Sandy Loam      8.1          1.4             6.7
Loam            6.6          1.3             5.3
Average /a    8.0           1.4             6.6
/a  Weighted average based on amount (area) of lining
proposed in each soil type.
3.14      Based on the above measurements, average seepage losses2used in
evaluating canal lining benefits under the pr2ject are 8 cfs/M ft of wetted
perimeter for unlined channels and 2 cfs/M ft for lined channels, resulting
in2an average direct seepage loss reduction due to canal lining of 6 cfs/M
ft . These assumptions are conservative. Using inflow/outflow methods 1/
actual measured seepage losses from unlined channSls in the seepage loss
experiments above rangei from 7.4 - 10.4 cfs/M ft  in sandy loam soils, and
from 5.5 - 8.8 cfs/M ft  in loam soils; measured losses from lined channels
ranged from about 0.8 - 2.1 cfs/M ft . Some 83% of the length of canals to
be lined under the project would be in sandy loam soils.
I/   In general inflow/outflow measurements more accurately represent actual
canal operating conditions than do ponding measurements. All but two of
the measurements on unlined channels and half the measurements on lined
channels were done using inflow/outflow techniques.



- 18 -
3.15      Seepage loss savings due to lining result both from the direct
reduction in seepage due to the lining itself, and from the reduced wetted
perimeter made possible by having a lined canal cross-section.  Based on
experience with Haryana I, the reduction in canal cross-section averages
about 15%. Using the direct seepage loss estimates above, and a 15% reduc-
tion in canal wetted perimeter, primary seepage loss savings under the
project would total nearly 1,600 cfs, estimated as follows:
Without Lining            With Lining
Name of   Existing  Seepage         Lined      Seepage       Savings in
Canal     Area      Losses         Area       Losses      Seepage Losses
System    M sq.ft.   cfs           M sq.ft.    cfs              cfs
Bhakra        172      1,372          144         289           1,083
WYC            78        625           68         136             489
Total      250       1,997          212         425           1,572
3.16      Combining expected Haryana II seepage loss savings with those
estimated from Haryana I estimated at about 1,300 cfs, total direct water
savings as a result of canal lining under the two projects would amount to
over 2,900 cfs.  Assuming annual running days of 278 for Bhakra Canals and
200 for WYC, the volume of water sgaved annually through the canal lining
program wouli total some 1,600 Mm  (1.4 million3acre feet or MAF), comprising
about 720 Mm  (0.6 MAF) in Haryana I and 960 Mm  (0.8 MAF) in Haryana II.
This neglects seepage losses saved when water remains standing in the unlined
canal profile below the sill leveL of watercourse offtake structures during
off-rotations of canals.
3.17      Operational benefits should also be substantial, but are much more
difficult to quantify.  A preliminary study of operational benefits for nine
distributaries lined under Haryana I for the period 1978 to 1981 indicates
the following:
(a) reduction in maintenance costs by nearly 90%;
(b)  reduction in canal breaches by nearly 85%;
(c)  reduction in water travel time for filling canals after
rotational closures by about 40%; and
(d)  increased command (elevation of water surface)
at the canal head and tail averaging 10 cm on each
distributary (a small increase in water elevation
can have significant efficiency benefits).
Overall, considering channels in the study for which data is available, the
area irrigated per cfs-day 1/ increased by about 10% per year between 1979
1/   Area irrigated per cfs-day (a quantity of water) can be considered a
rough measure of overall operational efficiency.



- 19 -
and 1981. Canal lining and consequent reduced seepage from canals is also
expected to help slow the rise in saline groundwater levels in the interior
basin of western Haryana. Although difficult to measure in terms of iden-
tified cause and effect, this is perhaps the most important long-run benefit
from the project. Monitoring and evaluation of these and other benefits from
lining was started on a limited scale in Haryana I and will be expanded in
Haryana II.
3.18      Costs.  Costs for canal modernization including structures, staff
support (including construction of housing units for watercourse construction
field staff), engineering, and physical and price contingencies average about
Rs 5.51 (US$ 0.58) per ft . 2Base costs for canal lining alone are estimated
at Rs 4.36 (US$ 0.46) per ft . Base costs for the radio communications
network total an estimated Rs 3.2 M (US$361,000) over the four year project
period.
Watercourse Modernization
3.19      The proposed project would finance modernization, mainly lining, of
about 1,700 watercourses with an estimated total length to be lined of some
20.0 M running feet (Rft) in the Bhakra and WYC gravity areas, and an addi-
tional 200 watercourses with an estimated total length to be lined of some
3.0 M Rft in the Jui and Sewani pump-lift systems which are still under
construction and development. The project would also include, as necessary,
completion of watercourses started in Haryana I. Each watercourse serves on
average about 50-60 farmers linking individual farm plots to the main canal
network operated by the Government. Haryana has a total of about 12,500
watercourses including approximately 9,400 in the Bhakra and WYC systems.
Some 924 watercourses are envisaged for the Jui and Sewani systems.
3.20      Typically, a watercourse serves an area (chak) of perhaps 200 to
300 ha, has a capacity of between 1 and 2 cfs, and is perhaps 15,000 ft in
total length (Map 16555). Because of its length and chak size, a watercourse
in Haryana is roughly equivalent to a minor canal in many other Indian
irrigation projects, particularly in the southern States. Watercourse
capacity and chak size is determined according to a duty of about 1 cfs for
168 ha. 1/ Considering normal canal operating procedures and channel rota-
tions, watercourses provide each farmer with enough water on average to
irrigate about 30 - 40% of his irrigable land each season.
3.21      The Haryana Canal and Drainage Act of 1974 (the Act), as amended in
1976 and based on the Northern India Canal and Drainage Act of 1873, governs
operation of the irrigation system and allocation of water among farmers.
Under the Act, operation and maintenance of a watercourse is the respon-
sibility of farmers holding land in the chak served by it. Each earthen
1/   This applies to gravity areas; in pump lift areas, a duty of 1 cfs for
133 ha is used to determine chak size, but watercourse capacity is based
on a duty of about 1 cfs for 100 ha because of larger supplies provided
in the kharif season.



- 20 -
watercourse was originally constructed by the farmers, or shareholders, in
the chak, and the farmers in effect own the watercourse in common. The
alignment of each watercourse is determined by the Irrigation Department
under the Act.  Once legally registered, the common watercourse channels
within a chak are designated as "sanctioned", and supply of water to all
individual farm plots can be and is enforced under provisions of the Act.
3.22      Gravity Areas.  In Bhakra and WYC command areas, approximately
3,400 watercourses have been lined tnder Haryana I and a preceding scheme
financed by ARDC. With completion of Haryana II, a total of nearly 5,100
watercourses accounting for about 54% of the total watercourses in both
systems will have been lined, detailed approximately as follows:
Canal      Total No. of        --     Number of Watercourses Lined------
System     Watercourses        ARDC    Haryana I      Haryjna II    Total
Bhakra         5,292           1,315      1,125           1,211        3,651
WYC            4,075             381        569             489        1,439
Total     9,366           1,696      1,694           1,700        5,090
3.23      Under Haryana II, watercourse designs for lining which have been
proven effective and economical in Haryana I would be employed. Designs and
procedures for watercourse lining and modernization are well specified in a
watercourse design manual developed by HSMITC under Haryana I. Two alterna-
tive watercourse lining designs would be used depending on local costs and
site conditions (Chart 24082):
(a)  vertical sides constructed of brick masonery using 1:4
cement mortar, with channel bed of 4 cm thick 1:3:6 cement-
sand-aggregate mix over a subgrade of 2 cm thick slate pieces
(kattals) in the, bed; and
(b) vertical brick masonery sides as above, but with channel
bed of 7.6 cm thick brick masonery in 1:4 cement mortar over
compacted subgrade.
3.24      In very sandy areas the inside face of the brick masonery lining
would have cement mortar plaster to minimize leakage; it is estimated that
plastering would be required for about 20% of the total length of lined
watercourses. Where the height of watercourse walls exceeds the normal five
to six courses of brick, the wall thickness below the sixth course would be
doubled for added strength. Polyethelene sheet in the watercourse bed would
be used where necessary, particu'Larly in sandy areas, to reduce drainage of
water from the cement-mortar and as an additional seepage barrier (or where
justified in place of plaster in sandy areas). On a small portion (about 1%)
of the watercourse lining program, innovative designs and materials would be
tried out and the results monitored and integrated into the ongoing program.
3.25      The lining for an individual watercourse would average
approximately 75% of its total length, the same as under Haryana I. In
general water losses are highest in watercourse head reaches, because the
head reach runs for more hours during a season compared to the tail reach



- 21 -
(due to operation of the warabandi rotation). However, farmer pressure has
been strong to line 100% of the watercourse length on equity grounds, because
under the Act all shareholders share equally in the lining cost on the basis
of landholding size, rather than on the basis of the amount of additional
water actually received. Under the Act, the watercourse remains the property
of the chak shareholders, and therefore lining of 100% of the length of a
watercourse would be accepted under the project if shareholders are prepared
to bear the extra cost through an appropriate repayment schedule. Lining
would also be done on already lined or partially completed watercourses to
bring them up to the standards of the proposed project. General criteria for
determining the length of a watercourse to be lined would include the follow-
ing considerations:
(a) lining of any particular main or branch watercourse would
be stopped at the point where the remaining time in the
warabandi rotation schedule falls below 8 to 10 hours in
the weekly rotation period; and
(b) no shareholder in a watercourse command would have to
convey water for a distance in excess of 1,000 ft (300 m)
from the end of the lined watercourse to his farm gate.
3.26      Watercourse modernization would include construction of improved
gated turnouts, division boxes, culverts, cross-drainage structures, falls,
etc. The present practice with earthen watercourses is for the farmer to
take water by making a cut in the bank of the watercourse to obtain water
during his warabandi turn. Watercourse modernization would provide improved
permanent farm outlets (nukkas) with gates on the lined and unlined portions
of each watercourse (Chart 24083). Permanent crossings over watercourses
would be constructed to enable access to each holding by bullock cart or
tractor. Watercourse modernization would also include provision for main-
tenance during construction and a run-in period of about six months (before
it is considered complete) for each modernized watercourse during which time
performance would be monitored to insure design specifications are met and
any repairs or modifications needed would be made; this would be done in
conjunction with efforts to improve quality control standards (para 5.25).
In addition, the project would provide for buildings, staff housing, and
staff support necessary for speedy implementation of watercourse modern-
ization (para 3.18).
3.27      Lining can reduce seepage losses from watercourses substantially,
particularly in sandy areas. Measurement from scattered watercourses in the
Bhakra and WYC systems indicate losses often in the range of 20 - 30 cfs/M
ft2 without lining, which are reduced to about 3 - 6 cfs/M ft2 with
lining. 1/ In addition, lined watercourses provide reliable water supplies
1/ The above are steady-state loss rates; during the first 24 hours of a
newly-opened channel segment, loss rates may exceed 50-100 cfs/ Mft2.
Such high rates would occur continuously on various channel segments as
the warabandi rotation progressed, and would be repeated each week.



- 22 -
particularly to watercourse tail areas because breaks (accidental or other-
wise) in the watercourse are reduced, and increase equity because all
shareholders regardless of their location on the watercourse receive essen-
tially their full share of available water supplies. In practice measured
seepage losses are not directly proportioned to total water savings because
watercourses do not flow continuously throughout their length but rather
operate on a rotation basis. In addition, increased reliability and equity
are difficult to evaluate. Nevertheless, the impact of watercourse modern-
ization can be seen in increases in irrigated area with lining compared to
without lining. Based on data from a total of 375 watercourses monitored
under Haryana I, the average increase in the irrigated area of a watercourse
due to its modernization is estimated at about 20% and 11% in Bhakra and WYC
areas, respectively.
3.28      Pump-lift Areas.  The Jui and Sewani projects envisage a total of
about 924 watercourses. Some 16 were constructed under previous ARDC schemes
and 105 under Haryana I. Haryana II would add an additional 200, bringing
the total to 321 upon completion of the proposed project. Lined watercour-
ses are particularly important in the pump-lift areas for several reasons.
Pump-lift water has both high cost and high value, and it has a high oppor-
tunity cost. Soils are very light with low retention capacity, leading to
exceptionally high seepage losses measured in the range of about 30 to 60
cfs/M ft2 from unlined watercourses. 1/ In addition, the terrain in pump-lift
areas is undulating with sand dunes and valleys, and watercourses frequently
must traverse depressions and sand dunes where lining is required to stabi-
lize the channel.
3.29      Without watercourse lining, water supplies under these conditions
are very unreliable for all farmers except those closest to the outlet from
the canal. Development of irrigation in the pump-lift areas as a result has
progressed very slowly. Watercourse modernization work in much of the
pump-lift area is essentially the construction of new watercourses and is
necessary to obtain significant irrigation benefits from costs already
incurred by GOH for pump-lift facilities. In addition, pump-lift area
farmers are typically small-holders and poor, and the area is chronically
drought and famine prone. Project watercourse investments in the pump-lift
commands would produce significant social benefits which are not considered
here.
3.30      Watercourse design and structures in pump-lift areas would be the
same as in gravity areas, except that design option (b) with brick masonery
bed would be used exclusively. In addition, because of exceptionally high
seepage rates and difficult terrain, 100% of the watercourse length would be
lined.
1/ With a typical unlined watercourse of about 15,000 ft and the normal rabi
season flow of about 1 cfs, water would travel only about 6,000 ft with
such high seepage rates, leaving about two-thirds of the watercourse dry.



- 23 -
3.31      Costs.  The average cost of watercourse modernization over the
project period including lining, small structures, engineering and physical
and price contingencies is estimated at Rs 37.90 (US$ 3.99) per Rft tn
gravity and Rs 42.10 (US$ 4.43) per Rft in pump-lift areas. Field testing
of various types of lining and structures would continue throughout the
project period in both gravity and pump-lift areas, and specifications would
be modified and improvements introduced if iustified.
Augmentaticn Tubewells
3.32      The proposed project would finance installation of 325 augmentation
tubewells (including tubewell construction, link channels, and electrifica-
tion). Haryana I was to finance installation of 325 augmentation tubewells
(ATWs) in five areas identified by GOH where groundwater quality and
availability can support She development of some 650 additional wells capable
of producing about 450 Mm (0.4 MAF) of water annually. 1/ The proposed
project would be the second phase of that development (Map 16554).  The ATW
program aims at optimizing management and utilization of groundwater and
surface water resources coniunctively for maximum benefit.  In Haryana II,
the total ATW capacity would be about 570 cfs, augmenting Sanal water sup-
plies in the Bhakra and WYC systems by an estimated 226 Mm  annually.  ATWs
under Haryana I and 3II would have a total capacity of over 1100 cts and pump
an estimated 447 Mm (0.4 1MAF) annually, as follows: 2/
=-------Haryana I--------  --------Haryana II-------
Name of            Dis-                         Dis-                Total
Canal   No. of  charge  Quantity   No. of  charge  Quantity   Quantity
System    ATWs   cfs      M cu.m/yr   ATWs       cfs   M cu.m/yr  M cu.m/yr
Bhakra    250    438          178       288      504       205        383
WYC        75    131           43        37       65        21          64
Total    325    569          221       325      569       226        447
Note:  The discharge estimates are based conservatively on 1.75 cfs per
tubewell; quantity estimates assume annual pumping of 4,000 hours
in Bhakra and 3,200 hours in WYC areas. In practice discharge
rates achieved are about 2.0 cfs per tubewell.
3.33      ATWs and Link Channels.  ATWs would be constructed in groups to
reduce the cost of electric service and link canals, and to make the combined
discharge large enough to be operationally significant when used conjunc-
tively with surface water supplies in the canal system. The wells would be
1/ Some 38 of the ATWs planned for Haryana I will not be installed before
project completion due to unavailability of sites.
2/   Combined with some 1,250 ATWs installed by GOR prior to Haryana I, the
estimated total capacity of the wells (upon completi n of Haryana II)
would be about 3,300 cfs adding an estimated 950 Mm (0.8 MAF) annually
to available canal water supplies.



- 24 -
about 135 m deep with discharges of between 1.5 to 2.0 cfs. They would be
spaced at about 500-1,000 m intervals generally in a single row along a lined
link collection channel discharging into a main canal of the gravity irriga-
tion network. Minimum spacing between ATWs would be about 450 m. Minimum
spacing between ATWs and private tubewells would be about 150 m, and local
farmers who had to lower their pump sets due to a drop in the water table
resulting from ATW operation would be compensated. Project ATWs would be
located in the same Branch canal areas as in Haryana I, but in different
blocks; i.e., in the Ratia, Rori and Sirsa Branch areas of the Bhakra system,
and in the Hansi Branch area of the WYC system.
3.34      Design parameters such as screen length, choice of screen materials
and pump equipment used in Haryana I have proven generally satisfactory
and would be employed in Haryana II; they would be modified as necessary
during project implementation to imiprove technical performance and
cost-effectiveness of project ATWs. Capacitors and other necessary protec-
tive equipment would be installed att each ATW to avoid damage due to power
outages or variations in voltage, which are at times severe.
3.35      Some 225 project ATWs would be located along nine link channels to
be constructed concurrently with ATWs under the project; the remainder of
project ATWs would be located along existing main canals. The length of link
channels required would total about 103 km, plus about 9 km for a main feeder
channel. Link channels would be lined and equipped with suitable outfall
regulators, cross-drainage works, bridges/crossings, and facilities for
lifting water at feeder and link channel tails as needed. Each link channel
would serve on average about 25 ATWs. Construction of one of the link chan-
nels as a level top canal would be considered.
3.36      ATW Electrification.  Project ATWs would be served by dedicated
11 kV feeder lines providing uninterrupted power supplies. An estimated 21
feeder lines, each serving some 15 ATWs and totalling about 320 km in length,
would be required. In addition, two new 33/11 kV sub-stations would be
constructed and 19 sub-stations would be augmented to serve project ATWs;
these additional facilities would be only partly chargeable to the project as
a large part of their capacity will be used by other consumers. Capacitors
will be provided on 11 kV lines at each sub-station to improve the power
factor and voltage at the feeder end. Power requirements for the project at
full development would total some 9 MW, and are negligible in terms of the
projected peak load in the State cf over 1400 MW by 1985. Design standards
for ATW electrification have been satisfactory in Haryana I and would be
continued under the proposed project.
3.37      Costs.  The cost of each ATW alone is estimated at about Rs 180,000
(US$20,000), including engineering and physical contingencies; the estimated
cost per ATW including link channels, engineering and physical contingencies
totals about Rs 347,000 (US$38,600). The cost of electrification is about
Rs 76,000 (US$8,500) per well including physical contingencies.



- 25 -
Sprinkler Irrigation
3.38      The proposed project would finance installation of about 100
sprinkler sets. The sets would be installed primarily in the sandy and
undulating areas in the western part of the State (Bhiwani, Sirsa and Hissar
Districts). Between 1978 and 1981, the Irrigation Department installed and
has operated experimentally some 130 sprinkler sets in these areas with
generally satisfactory results, and the proposed additional sets would be
treated as an "expanded" pilot operation. About two-thirds of the new sets
would be in the Jui and Sewani pump-lift commands which are served by Western
Yamuna canals with the remainder in the Bhakra command. In these areas,
surface irrigation is very difficult and expensive due to heavy land levell-
ing requirements, and application efficiency is low due to the very light,
sandy soils with rapid infiltration and low moisture retention. Sprinkler
irrigation would reduce the need for levelling, and enable high application
efficiencies with the light soils.
3.39      Each sprinkler set would serve a chak area of about 40 ha consist-
ing of perhaps 10 to 20 separate farms. The standard sprinkler chak is
expected to have an irrigation intensity of about 50% in kharif and 70% in
rabi. Cropping patterns, initially at least, would comprise primarily
drought resistant crops like baira and gram, although cotton in kharif and
some wheat in rabi is expected to be grown. A standard sprinkler set would
consist of an aluminium pipe main line and movable lateral lines, sprinklers,
couplers, valves, electric or diesel pump, and other accessories and ancil-
lary equipment and facilities. Capacity of the sets would be sightly higher
in pump-lift command areas compared to the Bhakra areas because of the higher
design water duties provided in lift areas.
3.40      The sprinkler irrigation component will be considered in part as an
expanded pilot effort to test different types of sprinkler equipment, deter-
mine how best to operate the sprinkler units in conjunction with the canal
network, and develop -procedures for establishing and maintaining effective
farmer involvement. Although the standard unit above would be the norm,
other types of sprinkler equipment would be tried and adopted if advan-
tageous, such as small, movable single sprinkler units with flexible hose.
Several management options for sprinkler irrigation will also be tried. For
example, present sprinkler crop patterns emphasize low water using crops like
gram, mustard and baira; several combinations of crop patterns and intensity
would be tested to determine the optimum crop mix for selected operating and
site conditions.
3.41      Alternative canal operational patterns to supply water to
sprinklers on a more frequent schedule would also be tested. With
sprinklers, water application efficiencies are higher compared to surface
methods, particularly in sandy soils, and it is technically possible to apply
much smaller amounts of water during each application without large percola-
tion losses, for crops requiring more frequent irrigation. More frequent but
smaller irrigations would help to reduce water stress and in general raise
yields (depending on the crop), without a significant increase in actual crop
water use. However, present canal system operating procedures result in long
intervals often amounting to 16 or 24 days or more between irrigations. To



- 26 -
gain full benefit from sprinkler investments, alternative canal operating
schedules and procedures, in-canal or off-canal storage, modified canal
designs (such as automatic downstream controlled cross regulation and level
top canals), etc., would have to be developed and tested to match canal
operations with the requirements of sprinkler irrigation.
3.42      For efficient sprinkler operations, cooperation among the farmers
is essential; they would have to bei more highly organized for group action
than is the case under the standard warabandi rotation as is normally prac-
ticed in surface irrigation areas. For example, farmers would have to move
sprinkler lines according to an agreed plan, and take care to protect
aluminium sprinkler pipe, couplings, valves and other equipment from damage.
Under the sprinkler component, a Sprinkler Irrigation Association (SIA) would
be formed at each sprinkler chak to enhance coordination and cooperation
among farmers. Each SIA would be comprised of farmers owning land on the
chak and would be established prior to installation of the sprinkler equip-
ment. SIAs would assist in planning, supervising and operating project
sprinkler sets. Agreements have been reached that GOH would by September 30,
1983 prepare plans to be carried out after review and comment by IDA to
organize and establish a SIA at each sprinkler site. These plans would
include the powers functions, responsibilities, and organizational structure
for SIAs.
3.43      The cost of the sprinkler system for each 40 ha chak totals about
Rs 179,000 (US$ 19,000) for the Bhakra areas and Rs 195,000 (US$21,700) in
pump-lift areas. The slight difference in cost is due to the somewhat higher
capacity required in the pump-lift areas.
Village Water Supply
3.44      The project would finance construction of about 120 water supply
schemes to serve some 360 "scarcity" villages with an estimated population of
over 600,000. Scarcity villages are those where an assured supply of potable
water is not available within a distance of 1.6 km or a depth of 15 m;
available water has excess salinity, iron, fluorides or other toxic elements;
and/or available water supplies are liable to the risk of cholera or guinea
worm infection. The schemes have been selected by GOH on the basis of
greatest need and are distributed through ten districts. Of the 120 schemes,
some 62 would be supplied by tubewells, and about 58 schemes located in
brackish groundwater areas would be supplied from irrigation canals. Many
villages depend during at least part of the year on canals for their domestic
water supplies. Project schemes will provide sanitary water supplies to the
village population and free essential village water supplies from interrupt-
ion due to canal operational requirements and the canal modernization program
under the project.
3.45      Water supply schemes are designed to meet estimated requirements
over a planning period of 15 years (except the distribution system and con-
nections which are designed using a 30-year period), based on daily require-
ments of 45 liter per head. This is the current design rate used for village
water supply schemes throughout the State. To ensure equitable distribution
of scarce resources, private house connections are not allowed at present.



- 27 -
Depending on location, canal closures may be for periods of up to 27 days
after a 7 day running period; canal-fed schemes would therefore need
storage/sedimentation basins with sufficient capacity to meet expected
periods of canal closure, and a feeder channel sufficiently large to fill the
storage in 8 days. Raw canal water would be treated by slow sand filtration
and chlorination; tubewell based schemes would be treated only by chlorina-
tion. Treated water would be pumped into overhead service reservoirs with
capacities of 25% of daily demand supplying gravity-fed distribution mains
designed to supply village populations through standpipes each serving 200 to
300 consumers. PH will install water meters on all tubewells and, for
canal-based schemes, on all delivery mains. Pumps would be electrically
powered from the State's rural power grid; standby diesel pumps and gener-
ators would be provided to ensure against power outages.
3.46      Estimated project costs are based on five separately-costed model
schemes developed on the basis of differing site conditions in various dis-
tricts of the State. The per capita unit cost varies from about Rs 221 to
Rs 348 (US$25 to US$39) according to the type of system (tubewell or canal
based), local conditions, and population densities. The weighted average of
unit costs is about Rs 250 (US$28) per capita.
Village Access Roads
3.47      All-weather access to villages is essential, particularly in a
monsoon climate, given the expanding production surplus to which the project
will contribute and increasing farmer demand for modern agricultural inputs
like fertilizer. Under Haryana I, some 1,300 km of access road construction
and improvement was completed, linking about 950 villages to the State's
all-weather road network. The proposed project calls for construction of an
additional 196 km of similar all-weather access roads which would serve 111
villages.
3.48      All project roads would be designed and built to Indian Road Con-
gress standards and GOH Public Works Department (PWD) specifications for
village roads, which were used in Haryana I and are satisfactory. Pavement
width would be about 3.7 m on a base formation 7.3 m wide over the shoulders
with a right of way 12.2 m wide; embankment height would normally be about
0.9 m with drainage as required. The narrow right of way is sufficient
because farmers prefer to provide soil for embankments from their land,
rather than give up land for borrow pits. Pavement would have a total mini-
mum thickness of 17.5 cm and would be constructed of stone or brick soling
and waterbound macadam surfacing sealed with premix bituminous carpet.
Provision would be made for hard shoulders where soft shoulders are not
suitable because of soil conditions or road elevation.
3.49      In addition to road construction, the project would finance a pilot
study to analyze the problem of damage to hard surface roads by animal-drawn
(bullock) carts with iron-rimmed wheels, and to assess the difficulties
likely to be faced in modernizing bullock carts in rural areas to reduce road
damage. Various cart designs would be tested by introducing about 100 mod-
ernized carts for actual use in a few selected areas. A study of traffic
patterns in rural Haryana will also be undertaken in several selected areas



- 28 -
to assess traffic pattern changes and economic benefits resulting from the
provision of all-weather roads between villages.
3.50      The unit costs for project village access roads average about
Rs 159,000 (US$17,700)/km. The proposed study would cost an estimated Rs 1.0
M (US$111,000).
Training
3.51      Under the project, special training programs would be developed for
in-service (refresher) training, and for orientation training of new recruits
of the Irrigation Department (ID). Both training programs would aim to
provide ID engineers with increased knowledge and understanding of modern
irrigated agriculture and its requirements, and with exposure to improved
technology in irrigation and modern management science and practices. Most
ID engineers are well trained and competent civil engineers. However, most
learned their irrigation engineering on-the-job, and in addition much of the
major civil engineering construction for irrigation in Haryana will be com-
pleted over the next few years. Meeting the needs of the future will require
that ID engineers have a stronger orientation and specialized training
focussed on advanced design and teclnology and management to improve irriga-
tion system performance. The training program under the project would help
provide this orientation and training, and begin to develop a professional
cadre of irrigation engineers and managers who would specialize in irrigation
operation and management, especially among the new recruits who generally
have little or no exposure to modern irrigation, hydraulics, agriculture, or
management science in their formal civil engineering training.  Training
under the project would also include training for Public Health Department
engineers on improved water supply system engineering.
3.52      Agreements have been reached that by September 30, 1983, GOH would
prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and comment work plans and
schedules for a manpower development program for in-service and new recruit
training for ID staff. The program would aim at ID in-service training for
up to 250 engineers annually and II) orientation training for about 30
engineers annually. Cost estimates for training include funds for fellow-
ships for trainees and study tours for ID professional staff.
Research and Development and Technical Services
3.53      The overall objective of the Research and Development (R&D) com-
ponent under the Haryana II project would be to develop and test options for
improving canal system performance capabilities and water delivery and use
efficiency. The R&D component of the project would finance pilot projects,
experiments and studies in support of this aim (Annex 1). It would also
finance the establishment of a modest R&D and training center for ID.
3.54      R&D Concepts and Coordination.  R&D efforts would include elements
of both hardware (e.g., improved canal regulation technology) and software
(e.g., alternative management practices and farmer organization). An R&D and
Training Unit (RDTU) has recently been established in the Irrigation Depart-
ment reporting to the Engineer-in-Chief and responsible for coordinating,



- 29 -
planning, designing, arranging and supervising project R&D work; in addition,
a technical-level R&D Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the
Engineer-in-Chief has been formed to guide, monitor and support the efforts
of RDTU (paras 5.04, 5.05 and 5.06). Along with actual R&D activities, the
project seeks to help institutionalize a system for facilitating and promot-
ing a continuous process of innovation, adaptation, and change which is
essential for effective, long-run modernization. Modernization of the ID
central design office, primarily through purchase of improved equipment and
essential vehicles, would be financed under the R&D component and would aim
in part to help ensure speedy incorporation of R&D findings into planning and
design work for canal modernization. Most of the key multidisciplinary staff
required has already been transferred to RDTU, and the R&D Steering Committee
has been constituted with appropriate membership. In addition to various
studies and experiments which RDTU would sponsor or carry out, major R&D
activities would include pilot projects, a groundwater salinity and drainage
study and assistance with organization of farmer associations at sprinkler
set sites and pilot areas and R&D support of the sprinkler irrigation com-
ponent. All pilot project and R&D activities would be subject to a detailed
mid-term review of objectives, plans and achievements. Assurances were
provided that activities to be carried out through RDTU would include studies
on improved canal operations and regulation, operating performance reporting
systems, and quality control practices, procedures and organization. Agree-
ments have been reached that by September 30, 1983 GOH would prepare and
furnish to IDA for its review and comment work plans and schedules for R&D
activities.
3.55      Canal Regulation Pilot Project.  Accurate and responsive canal
regulation is essential for high operational efficiency in canal system
management.  The technology and design employed in Haryana canal systems is
essentially that developed by the British in the last century. Speed of
response in canal system operation and the precision of control over both
water flows and water surface levels is very limited, even with the best of
management. In addition these technology and design constraints severely
restrict the possibilities for improving management efficiency and developing
and applying new, more efficient canal system operational procedures better
matched to modern agricultural requirements.
3.56      Designs and technologies for improved canal regulation based on
automatic, hydromechanical radial gates and plate distribution modules have
been adopted and employed successfully in a number of developing countries
over the past 20 years to provide improved upstream control and downstream
control in canal regulation (Chart 24084). Under the R&D component, these
technologies and designs would be tested and adapted tor Haryana conditions
in a pilot project which would seek to improve speed of response, precision
of water control and efficiency of management for selected pilot channels.
These improvements are expected to help raise canal system management
efficiency in meeting both existing and future operational objectives.
Detailed work plans for upgrading channels under the pilot project would be
included in the R&D work plans under the project (para 3.54).
3.57      Water Charges and Farmer 0rganization Pilot Project.  In conjunc-
tion with canal regulation pilot activities, the R&D component would support



-- 30 -
a pilot project on water charges and farmer organization. The present system
of water charges, by crop according to the area irrigated, tends to penalize
efficient water use by farmers, and reinforces pressures to keep water char-
ges very low because the water charge levied on any individual farmer has no
direct relationship to the amount of water actually delivered to him during
the season. To help remove this constraint, GOH has experimented with a
volumetric water charge system (termed "warimetric" system) based on the fact
that under the standard warabandi rotation each farmer receives water for a
specified period of time at a design flow rate during each turn for water.
Under the warimetric system, as amended in current proposals, each farmer
would pay for water according to the amount of time when he actually receives
water, or more simply, according to the number of irrigations he receives.
Because each irrigation is for a fixed time and flow, this amounts to payment
according to volume of water. Available results indicate good farmer accept-
ance of the warimetric system, and GOH has plans to expand it to some six
channels serving 105 outlets, estimated to cover about 20,000 ha.
3.58      Areas for the pilot project have been tentatively identified (Map
16554). Proper and equitable functioning of the warimetric system requires
increased precision in canal water regulation to insure full supply level
(FSL) in parent channels, because farmers will be charged assuming the chan-
nels are at FSL when they are operating. The six distributaries and minors
serving the pilot areas would therefore be modernized under the canal regula-
tion pilot project and/or operated with strengthened management to insure
adequate control and monitoring of FSL.
3.59      Increased farmer involvement would also facilitate introduction of
the warimetric system, as well as general improvement in operation at the
chak level. In pilot areas, farmers on each watercourse would be organized
into Water User Associations (WUAs) based on the existing warabandi groups or
shareholder committees to participate more directly in local irrigation
management matters; WUAs would, for example, monitor and report canal flows
at their watercourse outlet which is essential for equitable operation of the
warimetric system, maintain direct reporting links to ID staff on behalf of
their members, and register water deliveries to their members to be used in
determining and/or crosschecking the warimetric water charges. Such WUAs
could also play a part in watercourse modernization and maintenance, for
example, by establishing a committee to monitor watercourse modernization
quality control and watercourse maintenance and repair requirements on behalf
of members. Eventually, the WUAs could assist in further upgrading of
irrigation service, for example, through purchase and operation of sprinkler
equipment on behalf of their members.
3.60      Each WUA would be governed through specific Articles of Association
based on model Articles of Association or by-laws to be developed under the
project; these Articles would specify rights and responsibilities of members
and of the WUA. Each WUA would be registered and supervised by the Irriga-
tion Department and incorporated, if necessary, under appropriate existing
legislation, in lieu of the specific model enabling legislation for WUAs
which would be studied. Detailed and time-bound work plans for the water



- 31 -
charges and farmer organization pilot projects and provisions for estab-
lishment of pilot project WUAs would be included in the R&D work plans under
the project (para 3.54).
3.61      Groundwater Salinity and Drainage Study.  High groundwater levels
are already a serious problem in some areas, and if present trends continue
over the next 20 years, rising brackish groundwater and soil salinization
will become a matter of more general concern in the interior basin of
Haryana. The R&D component would include study of drainage and groundwater
salinity which would analyze management and investment needs for dealing with
the problem, including the feasibility and cost implication of various alter-
natives. The detailed hydrochemical study of groundwater quality recently
agreed for UNDP assistance (US$900,000) would be integrated into the overall
work plan for the R&D groundwater salinity and drainage study. Results of
this study are expected to provide the basis for investments to be included
in future irrigation modernization projects in the State.
3.62      Other Studies and Experiments.  The R&D component would also sup-
port studies and experiments aimed at improving canal system performance and
operational and management efficiency. Topics for study and experiment would
deal with technology, management and farmer organization as related to canal
irrigation, and would also include project preparation (in conjunction with
the groundwater salinity and drainage study) for possible future irriga-
tion/flood control and drainage projects in the State. Topics for study and
experiment under the R&D component would be outlined in the R&D work plans
(para 3.54).
3.63      Technical Services.  Many of the R&D pilot pro,ject, study and
experimental activities proposed under the project are highly innovative and
of an experimental nature for which specialist expertise available in India
and elsewhere is extremely limited. Specialist technical services of
individual short-term consultants estimated to total about 70 man-months
during the project period would be provided through GOI under an ongoing UNDP
water management grant (titled "Advisory Services for Modernization of Land
and Water Schemes") administered by the Bank at an estimated cost totalling
about US$11,700 per man-month. Assurances have been provided by GOI that
consultant experts would be made available through the UNDP grant as needed
for carrying out the R&D activities under the proiect.
Project Implementation
3.64      The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
April 1, 1983 as a time-slice of the ongoing GOH program for modernization
of the Bhakra and WYC irrigation systems (Chart 24097). Non-irrigation
components (water supply and roads) would be implemented in the project area
as part of ongoing GOH development plans in the sectors concerned.



-32-
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost Estimates
4.01           Estimated project costs, net of duties and taxes, would total
Rs 2,702.7 million (US$300.3 million!). Detailed cost estimates, are given in
x of
Foreign    % of Total
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Base Costs
A. Canal Modernization                 754.6  129.7       884.3  83.8    14.4      98.2       14.7         44.0
B. Watercourse Modernization
Gravity Area                       502.0   55.2       557.2  55.8       6.1     61.9        9.9         27.7
Lift Area                           83.7      9.3      92.9   9.3       1.0     10.3       10.0          4.6
Sub-total
Watercourse Modernization              585.7    64.5     650.2  65.1       7.2      72.3       9.9         32.3
C. Augmentation Tubewells
Tubevells                           96.8   21.9       118.7  10.8       2.5     13.3       18.4          5.9
Electrification                     17.1      6.5      23.6    1.9    0.7        2.6      27.4           1.2
Sub-total
Augmentation Tubewells                 114.0   28.4       142.3  12.7      3.2      15.9      19.9          7.1
D. Sprinkler Irrigation                 17.5     5.7      23.2    1.9      0.6      2.5       24.6          1.2
E. Village Water Supply               170.8   36.8       207.5  19.0       4.1     23.1       17.7         10.3
F. Village Access Roads                 38.9     9.1      48.0   4.3       1.0       5.3      19.0          2.4
G. R&D and Training                     45.4    8.9        54.4   5.0      1.0       6.0      16.4          2.7
Total Baseline Costs                1,726.9  283.0  2,009.9 191.8   31.5           223.3      14.1        100.0
Physical Contingencies              119.8    19.6      139.4  13.3       2.2      15.5      14.0          6.9
Price Contingencies                 475.7    77.8      553.4  52.9       8.6      61.5      14.1         27.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               2,322.4  380.3  2,702.7 258.0   42.3           300.3      14.1        134.5
4.02       Cost estimates are based on April 1982 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies, which were estimated separately for each component range from 5 to 10%
and total 6.4% of total estimated project costs. Price contingencies account
4.0,o          (,OSL esLimaces are based on April 1982 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies, which were estimated separately for each component range from 5 to 10%
and total 6.4% of total estimated project costs. Price contingencies account



-.33-
tor about 27% of total project costs and are based on the following expected
inflation rates:
1982/83      1983/84         1984/85         1985/86
Local Expenditures (%)         8.5           8.0             7.5            6.0
Foreign Expenditures (%)       8.0           8.0             7.5            6.0
Financing
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$150.0 M would finance about 50% of
total proiect costs, including 100% of foreign exchange costs ot US$42.3 M
and about 42% of local costs. The IDA credit would be made to GOI on stand-
ard terms. To avoid interruption of work ongoing trom Haryana I, the credit
would include provision of US$3.2 M for retroactive financing of qualified
project expenditures incurred on or atter February 1, 1983.
4.04      The credit would be channelled through GOH to finance GOH develop-
ment budget expenditures on the proiect (Table 9). IDA would reimburse
against eligible State budget expenditures for all components. GOI and GOH
would insure a smooth and adequate flow of financing for project implementa-
tion.
4.05      Agreement has been reached that GOI would make the proceeds of the
IDA credit available to GOH for the project in accordance with established
procedures for GOI development assistance to State governments. Agreement
was also reached that GOI and GOII would insure adequate state budget resour-
ces and financing to implement the project over the four-year project period.
Procurement
4.06      Civil Works.  Construction in the project totals about US$234.2 M
including physical and price contingencies but excluding engineering and
administration costs. The entire construction program consists of either
improvements to existing conveyance systems or development of individually
inexpensive augmentation tubewells, village water supply schemes, or village
access roads. All works are small, and scattered throughout the State, and
for canal and watercourse works because of canal operational constraints,
subiect to short construction intervals. The lining and modernization ot
over 370 different canals and about 1,900 different watercourses would util-
ize approximately US$188.4 M ot the works. The construction ot about 325
tubewells, R&D pilot facilities, about 120 water supply schemes and about 197
km of village link roads serving 111 villages would utilize the remainder ot
the works. The lining and modernization work must be done intermittently in
small portions to minimize interruptions in the tlow of water to the users
and procurement would be a continuous, ongoing process during the project
period (Table 10). Canal closures would generally not exceed about two
weeks. Even though packaging of works would be utilized whenever prac-
ticable, only about US$10.0 M worth ot construction could be grouped in



-34-
packages of a magnitude that would interest foreign bidders. TWorks that
would interest toreign tirms would be procured under international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) procedures with domestic bidders given a 7.5% preference.
The balance ot the works would be grouped as appropriate to attract maximum
competition; however, because of the above mentioned constraints, the bid
packages would generally be of less than US$5.0 million each. These works
would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank and in which toreign bidders would have an opportunity to
participate. Because of the small and scattered nature of the works, and
implementation timing only during canal closures, work order type bidding
procedures would be used on small contracts costing less that US$25,000 each,
and some works would be undertaken departmentally in aggregate totalling less
than 15% of total civil works.
4.07      Goods.  Equipment and materials totalling about US$19.5 M, includ-
ing contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and
procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines (Table 10). Qualified
domestic manufactures would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% and
bid documents would specify their eligibility and the manner of application
ot the preference.  Because ot existing servicing and spare parts facilities,
considerable advantages would be derived from procuring locally manufactured
light equipment and vehicles. Light equipment and vehicles are readily
available domestically at competitive prices. These goods would be procured
under LCB procedures tound satisfactory to the Bank, of contract size less
than US$100,000 and not to exceed US$5.0 M in total.
4.08      Contract Review.  All bidding packages tor works estimated to cost
US$0.5 million equivalent, and all ICB packages for goods, would be subject
to IDA's prior review of procurement procedures resulting in a coverage of
about 70% of the total estimated value of works and 85% of goods procurement.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank.
4.09      Standard Bid Documents.  The Central Water Commission of GOI has
recently developed model ICB and LCB bidding documents and procedulres for
both works and goods procurement. The models have been approved by the Bank,
and GOH will use them in their procurement.
Disbursements
4.10      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported goods,
materials, vehicles and equipment;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory price on locally manufactuired goods,
materials and equipment, or 70% of cost where the ex-factory
price is unavaiLable;
(c)  70% on civil works expenditures; and



-35-
(d) 100% of expenditures on training and on R&D pilot projects,
studies and experiments.
4.11      Disbursements against (a), (b), (c) and (d) will be fully docu-
mented except tor work undertaken departmentally and tor individual payments
of less than Rs 300,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 150,000 for equip-
ment, instruments, vehicles, goods and materials which would be made against
certificates of expenditure itemized by project component. Disbursements for
watercourse modernization and ATWs under item (c) would also require a cer-
tificate of completion certified by HSMITC and/or ID for each watercourse or
ATW. Certiticates of Completion would verity satisfactory completion of all
works according to agreed planning, design and quality standards, and in
addition tor ATWs completion of electrification and operational discharge
capacity of at least 70% of design. Documentation of expenditures would be
retained by GOH and made available for inspection by IDA review missions.
The estimated implementation schedule, estimated semiannual disbursement
schedule, and proposed allocation of the credit proceeds are presented in
Tables 11, 12 and 13, respectively. The estimated disbursement schedule is
based on continued implementation (without start-up period) at rates achieved
in recent years under Haryana I. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by August 31, 1987, about eight months after project completion.
Assurances were provided by GOI and GOH that the project would be implemented
substantially in accordance with the estimated implementation schedule, and
that reimbursement claim applications for ATWs and watercourses would be
accompanied by Certificates of Completion issued by HSMITC.
Accounts and Audits
4.12      The project would be subject to normal Government control and
auditing procedures which are satisfactory. A resident Audit Officer, repre-
senting the State Accountant General, would audit the project accounts.
Separate accounts would be maintained for project expenditures. Although
continuous and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, their
finalization is a lengthy process in the Statutory Audit Report presented to
the Legislature. It would be essential therefore to have interim certified
statements of account. Such statements, certified by the AG or his designee,
and supported by an itemized account and a summary of the expenditures, would
be submitted to IDA as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year.
Agreements have been reached with GOH that they would:
(a) maintain separate accounts for project expenditures;
(b) ensure that these accounts are audited annually by the AG
and the resulting interim statements of account are sub-
mitted to IDA as soon as possible but not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; and



-36-
(c)  make complete accounts and financial statements available
for inspection during IDA review missions.
In addition, assurances were provided by GOI and GOH that audited accounts
for HSMITC for 1976/77 through 1980,181 would be supplied to IDA by September
30, 1983.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      Implementation arrangements for the project would follow the same
pattern as in the ongoing Haryana I Project. Implementation would be the
responsibility of the following specific GOH agencies: Irrigation Department
for canal modernization, sprinkler irrigation, training and R&D; Haryana
State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation for watercourse modernization
and for augmentation tubewells; State Electricity Board for electrification
of tubewells; the Public Health Branch of the Public Works Department (PWD)
tor village water supply schemes; and the Bridges and Roads Branch of PWD for
village link roads (Chart 24085).
Coordination
5.02      To insure adequate coordination in the first Haryana Irrigation
Project, GOH established a Project Planning and Monitoring Committee report-
ing to the Secretary, Irrigation. Under the proposed project, that Committee
would report to the GOH Irrigation Secretary and Finance Commissioner and act
through its member/secretary, the Engineer-in-Chief, Irrigation.  The Commit-
tee comprises the heads of various agencies involved in or related to project
implementation. It provides policy level guidance and coordination, monitors
progress in physical and financial terms, and ensures adequate liaison and
communication between the various implementing agencies, GOH and IDA. The
Committee also helps tacilitate provision ot statf, equipment and other
requirements necessary for satisfactory performance of the project. The
Irrigation Department is the lead agency tor the project, and day-to-day
coordination and monitoring work is supervised by the Chief Engineer,
Projects, in the Irrigation Departmlent, who tunctions as the Project Manager.
These arrangements for coordination have operated satisfactorily under
Haryana I.
Project Management
5.03      Irrigation Department.  Canal modernization would be planned,
designed, scheduled and implemented by the GUH Irrigation Department (ID)
which would also be responsible for implementing the sprinkler, training and
R&D components ot the proposed project (Chart 24U86). Staffing and equipment
tor the canal modernization component in Haryana I have been adequate and
would be continued under the proposed project. For etficient implementation



-37-
of canal and watercourse modernization, close coordination between canal
operations, canal lining and watercourse modernization is essential. This
has been done under Haryana I through informal working committees comprising
the Superintending Engineers (SEs) for the relevant ID circles tor canal
operations and lining and the HSMITC watercourse lining circle in each canal
circle where lining works are underway. These SE committees provide coor-
dination and insure that modernization works meet design standards, are
subject to adequate quality control procedures, and maximize improvements in
operational and management efficiencies from project investments. This
practice would be continued under Haryana II.
5.04      Under Haryana I, a multidisciplinary Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
was established in ID which would continue under Haryana II; ID now monitors
lining work and the impact and benefits of lining for every channel lined
under the proiect. Under Haryana I that Unit had responsibility for R&D work
also. Haryana II would expand R&D activities substantially, and add a train-
ing component. To handle the increased R&D and training workload, a special
R&D and Training Unit (RDTU) has been established (para 3.54).
5.U5      RDTU reports to the Engineer-in-Chier or the Irrigation Department,
and is headed by the Chief Engineer, Design assisted by sufficient senior
statt to oversee worK and activities in several broad areas, including design
and technology, management and manpower, farmer organization, and training.
Senior RDTU statt would be multidisciplinary and would include agricul-
turalists, agricultural engineers, and agricultural economists.  RDTU would
plan, deslgn, arrange and monitor R&D pilot projects, experiments and studies
under the project, and would plan and arrange training programs for ID and
related statt. In general RDTU would implement R&D studies and training
activities through other organizations, institutions and consultants on a
contract basis, although it would undertake such activities on its own or
through ID staff if necessary. It would have specific responsibility to
oversee and coordinate the technical content of pilot project work by Special
Project Units (paras 5.07 and 5.22) and other ID staff working on pilot
projects, studies and experiments.
5.06      In addition to RDTU, a technical level R&D Steering Committee has
been formed (para 3.54). The Chairman of the Steering Committee would be the
Engineer-in-Chief, Irrigation. The Committee would comprise senior GOH
officers from ID, the Agriculture Department, engineering and agriculture
universities, and other organizations and agencies as needed and related to
the R&D and training work program. The purpose of the Steering Committee
would be at the technical level to help advise, guide, monitor and support
the efforts of RDTU. RDTU would function as the secretariat for the Steering
Committee, which would report on a regular basis through the Engineer-in-Chief
to the Irrigation Secretary. Agreements have been reached that GOH would
maintain and appropriately staff RDTU and the Steering Committee within ID,
and assurances were provided by GOH that RDTU would be headed by an officer
not below the rank of Chief Engineer, and that it would have divisions (each
headed by a Director of SE rank or equivalent with necessary supporting



-38-
staff) for advance planning, engineering, water regulation and control,
agro-economics, and monitoring, evaluation and training.
5.07      At the field level to implement sprinkler irrigation, pilot project
and R&D activities, a Special Project Unit (SPU) would be formed under the
Superintending Engineer (SE), Canals for each canal Circle where such
activities are located. SPU would report to the local SE, but would be
functionally responsible to RDTU for the technical content of its work. SPF
tunding levels would be determined by RDTU on the basis of work plans for
each SPU; arrangements for funding SPU activities would follow patterns
already established tor financing other ID project components. The local
SE would insure adequate coordination with other Divisions in the Circle and
implementatlon by SPU ot actual field work and activities according to plan.
SPUs would also undertake farmer organization work under the sprinkler and
pilot project components, and would provide guidance, support and monitoring
as necessary for farmer organizations developed under the project. Each SPU
would comprise a multidisciplinary field team headed by an officer of the
rank of Executive Engineer, and SPIJ staff would include agriculturalists and
agricultural engineers.  SPUs would seek to promote the positive involvement
and responsibility of engineers and other ID staff for efficient management
of water, up to the point of water delivery to farmers and efficient applica-
tion in the field.  Agreements have been reached that SPUs would be formed in
ID as above by June 30, 1983 tor undertaking tield R&D activities under the
project, and for supporting and monitoring Sprinkler Irrigation Associations.
5.08      Haryana State Minor Irrillation (Tubewells) Corporation.  As in
Haryana I, the Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
(HSMITC) would be responsible for modernization of watercourses and for
construction of ATWs under the proposed project (Chart 24087). HSMITC is a
public sector corporation established in 1970 to install and manage deep
tubewells and undertake other minor irrigation works which would improve
irrigation efticiencies throughout Haryana, and to tap institutional finance
sources. In general, financial management of HSMITC has improved considerably
during the implementation of Haryana I. The implementation performance of
HSMITC in Haryana I has been satisfactory, although shortages of key
materials and funding limitations have prevented achievement of appraisal
targets. Implementation rates for watercourse modernization and augmentation
tubewell construction proposed under the Haryana II project are based on
actual achievements under Haryana I. The multidisciplinary Monitoring and
Evaluation Cell established under Haryana I by HSMITC has also operated
satisfactorily, and its work would be strengthened in Haryana II to more
rigorously quantify the progress, benetits, costs, and general impact of
watercourse modernization using outside contracted research agencies as well
as HS-ITC statt and resources.
5.09      GOH would provide for adequate financial support to HSMITC to
enable construction of watercourses and construction and electrification of
ATWs, according to the project implementation schedule. GOH would also



-39-
collect from beneficiaries partial repayment of capital costs for construc-
tion of watercourses and a watercourse maintenance fee which would be trans-
ferred to HSMITC. Assurances have been provided by GOH that HSMITC would
maintain separate records to reflect revenues received and expenditures
incurred on operation and maintenance of watercourses modernized under the
project.
5.10      Haryana State Electricity Board.   The Haryana State Electricity
Board (SEB) is an autonomous government agency which has general respon-
sibility for electricity and power matters throughout the State. Under the
project, SEB would provide lines and power connections for the 325 project
ATWs. SEB makes some 20,000 tubewell power connections a year, and connec-
tions under the project would be only a small part of the total SEB program.
SEB implementation capacity is adequate as demonstrated in Haryana I.
Assurances have been provided by GOH that SEB will provide uninterrupted
power supplies to project ATWs through dedicated power lines, and that no
other connections will be allowed on those power lines.
5.11      Public Health Branch of PWD.  The Public Health (PH) Branch of the
Public Works Department (PWD) would be responsible for design and construc-
tion of village water supply schemes under the project. PH is responsible
for construction, operation and maintenance of all rural water supply schemes
in Haryana and would undertake the survey, design, administration and super-
vision of village water supply works included under the project. The Public
Health Engineering Department is headed by an Engineer-in-Chief based in
Chandigarh who would oversee implementation of the project. He is assisted
by a Chief Engineer, twelve Superintending Engineers, and other technical and
non-technical staff. To implement the project, PH plans to increase its
implementation capacity by increasing field staff strength the equivalent of
about two new Circles. To insure a continuous and up-to-date picture of
expenditures on water supply undertakings in the State, GOH would establish
an Accounts Unit in the PH head office. Overall direction of all sanitary
projects in Haryana is vested in the State Sanitary Board which formulates
general and technical sanitary policy for the State, and has consultative,
executive and directive functions. The implementation performance of PH
under Haryana I hias been satisfactory.
5.12      Under the project, PH would also establish at headquarters a
suitable Appraisal and Monitoring Cell headed by a Chief Engineer with key
staff including one Superintending Engineer, four Executive Engineers, four
assistant Engineers and supporting staff. The Cell would appraise the
detailed design of each water supply scheme with particular reference to cost
effectiveness, submit reports on each scheme, and develop and coordinate a
system for monitoring the operation and maintenance of completed schemes in
order to help provide data to verify or improve current design criteria tor
future schemes. Assurances have been provided by GOH that a centralized
Accounts Unit would be established at the PH head office. In addition,
agreements have been reached that GOH would establish by June 30, 1983 a
suitably staffed Appraisal and Monitoring Cell in PH.



-40-
5.13      Buildings and Roads Branch of PWD.  The Buildings and Roads (B&R)
Branch of PWD would be responsible for implementation of the village access
roads under the project.   B&R is responsible for construction and main-
tenance of roads throughout Haryana. The B&R Branch is headed by a Chief
Engineer who is assisted by three additional Chief Engineers responsible
respectively for national highways, state highways, and all other roads and
buildings. Seven regular B&R field circles and their divisions would be
responsible for execution of the prolect road works and would undertake the
necessary survey, design, administration, departmental works (paving), and
supervision. B&R has been engaged for a number of years in a major road
construction program of which this project is a small part, and the organiza-
tion is well staffed and equipped to execute the project without strengthen-
ing. B&R would also undertake the village roads pilot and traffic patterns
studies under the project.
O2eration and Maintenance
5.14      Operation and maintenance (O&M) would be the responsibility of the
implementation agencies above, except for watercourses which are the respon-
sibility of the beneficiaries. Agreements have been reached that GOH would
make adequate arrangements for operation and preventive maintenance of all
buildings, vehicles and equipment provided under the project.
5.15      Canals.  Canal O&M in most areas covered under the project is
primarily the responsibility of the Chief Engineer, Canals, who supervises
seven canal circles covering the Bhakra Canal and WYC Systems (Map 16552 and
Chart 24086). Lift area projects are still under construction, and tt\eir
O&M is the responsibility of the Chief Engineer, JLN. Present O&M expendi-
tures and procedures for the canal network are adequate. Project canal
modernization and lining works are expected to reduce the difficulty and
expense of O&M, raise receipts from water charges, and improve the overall
operational capability of the system in meeting specified performance stand-
ards.
5.16      Specifically, canal modernization works under the project will open
the possibility to modify standard canal operating procedures for improved
timing of water deliveries to farmers, in addition to generally increased
and more reliable water supplies. For example, canal lining and modern-
ization greatly reduces the time required for filling canals after an
off-rotation. Under the project, RDT-U in conjunction with the ID canals wing
would study and develop alternative operating procedures to fully utilize the
improved capabilities of the modernized system, and test new operating proce-
dures in selected areas. Assurances have been provided by GOH that improved
canal system operations and regulation would be studied under the R&D com-
ponent of the project.
5.17      A key requirement for efficient irrigation system operation and
management is to closely monitor performance and regularly report performance



-41-
results. Present reporting procedures are relatively limited in scope and
not focussed on increasing efficiency. Under the project, ID through RDTU
would design, test and implement an improved management information and a
performance reporting system which would be continuous and include details
on water delivery targets and achivements, irrigated area and yields, finan-
cial expenditures and receipts, and manpower requirements and turnover.
Reports would be issued annually shortly after the rabi season and made
available to IDA. Assurances were provided by GOH that improved canal canal
operations performance reporting systems would be developed under the R&D
component of the project.
5.18      Canal operations staff are generally competent and dedicated.
However, a major difficulty faced in achieving high management efficiency in
canal operations is frequent transfer of staff. A study of ID manpower
resources, utilization and staffing requirements for improved canal opera-
tions, including measures to promote continuity in posting of canal opera-
tions staff, would be included in the R&D studies under the project.
5.19      Watercourses.  Under the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act watercourse
O&M is the responsibility of the farmer beneficiaries or shareholders of the
watercourse. Watercourse operation is based on a time rotation of water
supply, or warabandi, with each shareholder in turn taking the entire water-
course flow for a specified time based on land holding size according to the
warabandi schedule which is legally sanctioned. Each farm holding is served
by an individual turnout or field channel. ID becomes involved only in cases
of dispute. Watercourse maintenance is the collective responsibility of the
shareholders, although ID is empowered to undertake maintenance at the
farmers' expense should they fail to act voluntarily.
5.20      Lined watercourses constructed under the project are expected to
generally require less maintenance, compared to unlined watercourses.
However, maintenance which is required is generally beyond the direct
capabilities of the shareholders involved. For watercourses lined under the
project, HSMITC would undertake to maintain the channel on a contract basis.
Under Haryana II, the shareholders on each watercourse would at the time a
watercourse is modernized form a Shareholders Maintenance Committee (SMC)
which would periodically inspect the watercourse, report to ID/HSMITC on its
condition, and monitor and check maintenance works done; SMCs would be
monitored by and registered with the local SE, Canals, who would provide
guidance and oversight for SMC development. Agreements have been reached
that GOH would develop and furnish to-IDA by December 31, 1983 plans specify-
ing procedures and timetables for forming SMCs on project watercourses
including a model draft maintenance agreement between ID/HSMITC and the SMCs,
and under those plans carry out arrangements between SMCs and ID/HSMITC for
effective maintenance monitoring and reporting procedures and mechanisms to
insure prompt and timely watercourse maintenance work as required.



-42-
5.21      Augmentation Tubewells.  ATWs under the project would be operated
and maintained by HSMITC on behalf of ID. Performance of HSMITC with O&M of
existing ATWs under Haryana I has been adequate.
5.22      Sprinkler Irrigation and R&D Pilot Projects.  The canals wing of ID
presently operates some 130 sprinkler sets in the project area, and would be
responsible for O&M of sprinkler equipment provided under the project. The
Special Project Units (SPUs) established to implement sprinkler irrigation
and pilot activities under the project would also be responsible for O&M work
in sprinkler and pilot components. The local SE, Canals, would oversee and
direct O&M work by each SPU, in coordination with RDTU. SPUs would also be
responsible to monitor and support the operation of farmer organizations
(SIAs and TWUAs).
5.23      Village Water Supply Schemes and Village Access Roads.  O&M of
village water supply schemes under the project would be the responsibility of
the PH Branch of PWD. PH is presently responsible for O&M of a large number
of such schemes serving some 1,500 villages throughout the State. Performance
of O&M by PH under Haryana I has been adequate.
5.24      Maintenance of village access roads constructed  under the project
would be the responsibility of the B&R Branch of PWD. B&R currently main-
tains a 19,000 km network of roads throughout the State, and performance
under Haryana I has been adequate.
Quality Control
5.25      Quality of works constructed under Haryana I has generally been
good. Measures to further strengthen and improve quality control of irriga-
tion works, and to insure public confidence in the completed facilities,
would be developed under Haryana -[I, primarily with regard to canal and
watercourse modernization. Possible measures would include provisions for
objective evaluation of completed works, random laboratory testing of
materials (e.g., mortar and bricks), "run-in" periods to insure design opera-
tional specifications are met, involvement of beneficiaries and publication
of the final results of quality control tests for each canal or watercourse
upon completion of testing and run-in procedures. Assurances were provided
by GOH that quality control practices, procedures and organization would be
studied under the R&D component of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.26      Interdisciplinary monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units were estab-
lished in ID and HSMITC under Haryana I. M&E units would continue to carry
out monitoring and evaluation studies under Haryana II (paras 5.04 and 5.08).
These studies would focus in particular on identification and quantification
of project benefits and incorporate greater interdisciplinary input. In
addition, M&E units would arrange, monitor, supervise and review monitoring



-43-
and evaluation studies to be contracted to outside agencies such as the
Haryana Agriculture University in Hissar.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND BENEFITS
Agricultural Impact
6.01      Project investments in irrigation works will save water presently
lost to seepage and augment canal supplies with groundwater,3together adding
at full development an estimated total of more than 1,700 Mm to Bhakra and
WYS water supplies compared to present average annual supplies of about 9,200
Mm at the canal headworks. These increased water suppliep are expected to
result in some 245,000 ha of added area irrigated which is the main benefit
used in economic analysis of the project. In addition, modernization works
are expected to enable substantial improvements in canal system operational
and management efficiency and to result in more reliable and timely water
supplies to farmers. The project should therefore also provide benefits from
more profitable cropping patterns and increased yields, although these
benefits are excluded from the pro,ject analysis.
6.02      Expansion of Irrigated Area.  Expansion of irrigated area is the
main benefit assumed from project investments. Any water saved or added in
the existing canal commands will have a ready and productive use, because
at present each farmer generally receives only enough water to irrigate each
season only a part of his irrigable land (Table 14). Increases in agricul-
tural production assumed under the project would result trom the increase in
irrigated area, with benefits generally spread throughout the canal system
CCAs. In the modernization work, present GOH policy is to maintain the same
"design duty" of water (1 cfs per 168 ha) for sizing watercourse outlets on
any channel which is modernized, and to keep water saved from lining that
channel in the "pool" thereby increasing water supplies available to the
system as a whole; ATW water adds similarly to water supplies available to
the system. Only at the watercourse level would water saved by lining be
used directly in the chak where it is saved. 1/ Increases in irrigated area
as a result of the project would be as follows (Table 15):
1/ In practice, a substantial portion of the water saved from watercourse
lining may be transferred back to the system "pool" when over-sized
watercourse outlets are modernized (reduced) to meet design standards.



-44-
Bhakra          WYC                 Total
Kharif  Rabi   Kharif  Rabi    Kharif   Rabi   Both
-------------------- 000 ha------------------------
Canal Modernization      53     61       16     18        69      79    148
Watercourse Modern-
ization                14     21        3      3        17      24     41
Pump-lift Watercourses   -       -        3      5         3       5      8
Augmentation Tubewells  15      23        4      6        19      29     48
Total            82    105       26      32      108      137    245
6.03      Crop Patterns and Area.  Modernization works are expected to help
improve the reliability of canal water deliveries to farmers, as well as
increase the quantity of water supplied. In addition, the impact of keeping
saved water in the "pool" for the entire system (rather than increasing
outlet sizes) will under current operating procedures result in increased
average running days for the irrigation networks. The additional water would
thus be provided by changing the schedule (increasing the frequency) of
irrigation deliveries, rather than simply increasing the quantity supplied
with each irrigation.
6.04      Increased frequency of irrigation deliveries is expected to enable
production of more drought-sensitive crop varieties; for example, more cul-
tivation of high yielding wheat varieties which tend to be more sensitive
to water stress compared to traditional varieties. In addition, greater
reliability and dependability of canal water supplies may result in less
cultivation of crops like gram which is often grown as a hedge against risk,
because it is very drought resistant if irrigation supplies do not come as
expected; gram might be replaced by wheat, which is more sensitive to water
stress but which is also much more profitable compared to gram if water
supplies are adequate.
6.05      Preliminary survey data currently available indicate some changes
in crop patterns have occurred in areas where modernization works are com-
plete. These data are, however, very tentative, and benefits assumed under
the proposed project are estimated on the basis of relatively small changes
in crop patterns (needed for technical and agronomic reasons in the cropping
schedule) over the increased irrigated areas in the canal commands. For the
project area as a whole, estimated crop area changes at full development are
as follows (Table 16):



-45-
Season and                Without          With          Change due
Crop                    Project          Project       to Proiect
------------------ 000 ha--------------
Kharif
Paddy                     177              211             34
Bajra                     143              143              0
Cotton                    336              372             36
Other                      74              109             35
Total Irrigated         730              835            105
Rainfed                   895              895              0
Fallow                    631              526           -105
Rabi
Wheat                     594              729            135
Gram                      127              116            -11
Mustard                   102              118             16
Other                     169              169              0
Total Irrigated         992            1,132            140
Rainfed                   480              434            -46
Fallow                    776              682            -94
6.06      Crop Yields.  Benefits under the project are estimated on the basis
of existing average yields for irrigated crops as reported in the project
area. For maior crops, these yields are 3.9 t/ha for HYV paddy, 0.9 t/ha for
baira, and 1.2 t/ha for cotton, 2.3 t/ha for HYV wheat, 0.9 t/ha for gram and
0.7 t/ha for mustard. These estimates are conservative, because some yield
improvement due to more frequent and timely irrigations, using the same
amount of water applied, can be expected as a result of modernization.
Experimental crop research clearly indicates a significant yield response to
better-timed and more frequent irrigations for some crops. In addition,
currently available field survey data from Haryana I, although very prelimi-
nary, does indicate some improvement in yields in areas where modernization
works have been completed.
6.07      Under field conditions the typical practice of irrigation by
Haryana farmers is to spread their available canal water supplies as thinly
as possible, with the objective of maximizing production per unit of water
which is generally the limiting factor in their operations. This is done
partly through conscious action by the farmer when he decides each season how
much land to sow for irrigation, and partly through the rationing system
inherent under the present operating procedures for the canal system. Opera-
tion of the canal system typically provides the farmer with water a certain
number of times during each season, say 5 to 7 times in the rabi season. The
farmer cannot predict very accurately or control the quantity or timing of
water deliveries. Canal modernization works, combined with the GOH decision



-46-
to keep saved water in the canal system "pool," should increase the frequency
of irrigation deliveries and to some extent result in better timed irrigation
supplies thereby reducing yield loss through water stress. For example, an
approximate increase of 10% in water available in the system should increase
the average system running days and number of irrigations supplied to wheat
from, say, 3.0 to 3.3 which in effect would give about 30% of the farmers
four irrigations while the remainder continue to receive three irrigations.
Each irrigation in that range of water application is in practice worth about
0.5 t/ha of wheat which would mean a 20-25% increase in yield for the
one-third of the tarmers who received four irrigations, or an average yield
increase of about 6 to 8% for all wheat growers. This effect could be
expected to some extent almost automatically due to increased water delivery
frequency, with the same amount of water applied, and would be in combination
with expanded area irrigated as a result of larger total water supplies. Part
of this increase in yield would result from heavier use of fertilizer by
farmers in response to more reliable and better timed water deliveries.
6.08      Production and Value.  Farmers in the project area are well
experienced with irrigation and have available irrigable land, and present
irrigation system operations can readily accommodate the additional water
generated by project investments. Benefits from modernization are expected
to accrue without a significant lag time, and the project would therefore
reach full development within two years after project completion at the end
of 1986. Based on the area, crop and yield assumptions above, the project is
expected to generate incremental production totalling some 491,000 tons
valued at about Rs 977 M annually at full development, as follows (Table 17):
Paddy    Wheat    Gram      Mustard   Other   Cotton  Total
'000 tons       126       311      -30         6        31       47      491
Rs M            272       609      -34        15         13     102       977
6.09      Field Efficiency and Deep Percolation.  Not counted in project
benefits is the likely increase in field or water application efficiencies
due to more timely and reliable water deliveries. Full realization of such
improvements may take some time as farmers adapt to improved water delivery
patterns. Currently the time-quantity distribution of water deliveries
during the season is very uncertain from the farmers' viewpoint. Because a
farmer never knows for sure when he will get his next irrigation, it is
likely that he will tend to overirrigate, in an effort to store more water in
anticipation of a long interval before his next irrigation. However, in any
particular irrigation if water application exceeds actual crop water use
since the previous irrigation, wal'er will probably be lost to deep percola-
tion, eventually adding to groundwater which in 60% of the area is brackish.
More reliability and certainty in water deliveries is expected to encourage
more efficient field application of water, resulting in less water lost to
deep percolation, which should enable available water to irrigate more area
and should also reduce additions to groundwater.



-47-
Market Prospects
6.10      Haryana produces a significant agricultural surplus in foodgrain
and cotton. India, however, is expected to remain marginally deficient in
food grains, and to continue importing a significant amount of long staple
cotton. Market prospects for major crops produced in the proiect area are
therefore favorable. The State has a well developed system for marketing,
storage, distribution, and processing of agricultural produce, and no serious
constraints in marketing are foreseen. In addition, a major purpose of the
canal modernization effort is to provide a much more reliable and flexible
irrigation supply, which will enable farmers to more readily adiust to chang-
ing market opportunities.
Financial Prices and Crop Budgets
6.11      Prices used in crop budget analysis are derived from field data,
the Statistical Abstract of Haryana, 1980/81 and "Profitability of Crops in
Haryana", Haryana Agriculture University, November, 1981. Projected finan-
cial prices are expressed in constant 1982 values (Table 18). Financial crop
budgets for a typical irrigated hectare in Bhakra and WYC have been estimated
based on present cultivation practices and input use (Tables 19 and 20), and
average returns per unit area irrigated and per unit of water are estimated
as follows:
Canal            Financial Net Benefits       Value of Water /a
System                  Rs/ha                       Rs/m3
Bhakra                  1,627                        0.88
WYC                     1,536                        0.76
/a   For rabi season only.
Watercharges and Cost Recovery
6.12      Canal and Watercourse Modernization.  In Haryana, an estimated 90%
of the farmers have access to canal irrigation. Furthermore, the benetits of
irrigation are spread throughout the State's economy and are a major force
behind the State's rapid economic growth and development. Partly due to that
development, Haryana has a good record of effective resource mobilization in
general and State revenues per capita have been about twice the national
average in recent years. These revenues allow the State budget to support a
high level of development expenditures, and in the irrigation sector, GOH has
been able to apply adequate financial resources, from whatever the source,
for O&M to insure efficient operation of the State's canal systems. For GOH
the issue of cost recovery through water charges, versus for example higher
marketing fees, is primarily a matter of administrative convenience and



political feasibility rather than st:ructuring specific charges for water that
pay the full cost of irrigation service. In addition, because of irriga-
tion's role in the general development of the State, allocation of some
portion of the State's general tax revenues to irrigation would be justified.
Analyses presented here considers onily water charges, differential land taxes
on irrigated land, and the portion of agricultural market fees which goes to
the State treasury.
6.13      Canal modernization under thie proposed project will be limited to
the Bhakra and WYC systems. In recent years, water charge receipts for the
Bhakra System have more than covered O&M expenditures, while for W4YC receipts
have not covered O&M costs (Table 21). Water charge receipts tend to rise and
fall from year to year, but considering Bhakra and WYC together, over the
last five years, receipts have totalled some 95% of O&M4 expenditures. The
shortfall in the W4YC receipts is due largely to the small amount of water
available to the system relative to the CCA and the resulting low irrigation
intensity, and the age of the system and consequent high maintenance require-
ments. The new Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal scheduled for completion in 1984
will provide more water and thus higher receipts with little impact on O&M
costs, and canal modernization should both increase water charge receipts and
reduce canal O&M costs. In addition to canal water charges, farmers would
under Haryana II make payments annually amounting to about 45% of watercourse
modernization capital costs (amortized at 10.5% over nine years) plus a
watercourse maintenance charge of 3% of capital costs annually (para 1.27).
These farmer payments would be collected by the State Revenue Department and
transferred to HSMITC by GOi, which would in addition provide the remaining
55% (paras 1.27, 1.28 and 6.21).  Agreements have been reached with GOH that
canal water charges would cover canal O&M costs plus a reasonable share of
canal modernization costs, and that for watercourse modernization additional
charges collected annually from farmer beneficiaries would amount to at least
45% of amortized watercourse modernization capital costs including water-
course maintenance charges of about 3% of watercourse capital costs.
6.14      Water Charge Rates.  Water charges for canal irrigation are fixed
under the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act of 1974, and are levied on a per
hectare basis according to crop. For some crops, they differ by canal sys-
tem, with the rates for Bhakra irrigation, for example, being somewhat higher
for certain crops than the rates for WYC where water supplies are relatively
less. Bhakra watercharge rates per hectare for major crops are Rs 100 for
sugarcane, Rs 75 for rice, Rs 68 for oil seeds, Rs 63 for wheat, cotton and
gram, and Rs 50 for baira. Rates for-the WYC irrigation are the same except
for sugarcane (Rs 85) gram (Rs 48) and wheat (Rs 45). W4ater rates were
raised in 1976 by amendment to the law. Annual revenues from water charges
on a CCA basis averaged for the years 1975/76-79/80 were about Rs 46/ha for
Bhakra and Rs 34/ha for WYC. In addition to watercharges, farmers also pay a
differential land revenue tax on irrigated land. Including that tax brings
the effective revenue per hectare of CCA at present to Rs 56 for Bhakra and
Rs 43 for WYC.



-49-
6.15      Volumetric Water Charges.  Starting with the Indian Irrigation
Commission Report of 1901-03 and continuing to the present, introduction of
volumetric water charges has been repeatedly recommended as a way of promot-
ing more efficient water use. Because ot the particular irrigation design
and operational practices used in Haryana, it is one of the few States of
India where a system of volumetric charges could be introduced without major
changes. The water charges study completed under Haryana I recommends that a
time-based system of (volumetric) charges be introduced in phases, 1/ and
also noted that this will require that channels when flowing are kept
strictly at FSL to insure that each farmer gets the design volume of water.
On its own initiative, GOH modified its irrigation legislation to permit
time-based water charges in 1976, and began experimenting with a method of
volumetric water charges (termed warimetric charges). The R&D component of
the proposed project would include two pilot projects, one directly to
promote expansion of the warimetric system, and the other to introduce new
technology and management aimed at better control of FSL in running channels
(paras 3.54-3.60). These two pilot efforts would be undertaken as a package
in part to test and promote volumetric water charges.
6.16      Farmers' Ability to Pay and Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery.
Estimates of farm income per incremental irrigated hectare as a result of
project irrigation investments indicate that farmers will have good financial
ability to pay for both canal modernization and ATWs, and for watercourse
modernization (Table 22). Based on estimated incremental income and costs,
estimated annual project rent at full development would be Rs 1,415/ha for
watercourse modernization (Table 23). Considering water charges, differen-
tial land revenue, and agricultural marketing fees of 3% (about two-thirds of
which go to the State treasury) collected at present by GOH, together with
GOH plans to collect on watercourse modernization works an annual O&M charge
of 3% and 45% of the investment cost (amortized at 10.5% interest over 10
years including one year of grace), recovery of estimated cost and rent would
be as follows (Table 24):
Rent                 Cost
.  Recovery %        Recovery %
Canal Modernization & ATWs           15                     88
Watercourse Modernization            20                     53
6.17      Village Water Supply.  Present GOH policy is to recover O&M costs
of village water supply schemes from each village served, up to 50% of the
village's annual income (see para 1.29). Agreements have been reached that
1/ "Techno-Economic Study of the Recovery of Water Related Charges in the
World Bank Assisted Haryana Irrigation Project", National Council of
Applied Economic Research, May 1982, p.3.



-50-
under the project GOH would recover full O&M costs from village panchayats
for all village water supply schemes.
Repayment for Watercourse Modernization
6.18      Under Haryana I, watercouLrse modernization for each chak was
financed through ARDC on-lending to HSMITC, and farmers were responsible for
repayment of the loan for their watercourse in proportion to their land
holding size relative to the total size of their chak. Loan repayment (plus
a 2% of capital cost annual maintenance charge) was treated as a direct
obligation of the farmers and collected by GOH as a direct charge in addition
to the standard canal water charge (para 1.26).
6.19      Under this system, which was at GOH initiative, collection rates
were initially high, exceeding 90% in the early years. However, in 1979/80
following a severe drought, and on the basis of reduced farmer repayment
capacity, GOR revised repayment requirements, eliminating repayment for small
farmers with 1 ha or less of land and reducing repayment requirements by 50%
for all other farmers (para 1.27).
6.20      Following the formula above, total repayment would average about
45% for all size farms combined. The revised repayment plan is consistent
with GOI-sponsored CAD programs for watercourse lining in other parts of
India, and is indeed far more ambitious in terms of cost recovery than
present GOI norms specified for new projects. 1/ However, due to the sensi-
tive and controversial nature of this issue, the revised repayment plan was
finally implemented only in the 1982 kharif season (para 1.27).
6.21      Under Haryana II GOH would recover 45% of watercourse capital and
maintenance costs (para 6.13). The watercourse maintenance charge and capi-
tal cost recovery will be paid by beneficiaries in addition to their water
charge and collected by the GOH Revenue Department (para 1.28). The capital
cost repayments would be treated as a direct charge by government for
improved irrigation service and not as loan repayments by farmers. To
encourage repayment, the project :includes measures to promote more effective
farmer participation and involvement. In addition, the ability and willing-
ness of farmers to pay for watercourse investments will depend on rapid
development of benefits from those investments. The work of CADA, which
1/  Under present norms, watercourse construction  and lining are to be
considered part of the Government irrigation system, and recovery would
therefore be as a portion of water charges; as indicated in the Seventh
Finance Commission Report (1978) and the Sixth Plan, the target by
1983/84 is that water charge receipts should cover working expenses of
the Government irrigation system (i.e., including watercourses) and
provide a return of 1% on the total capital invested. See "Economic
Situation and Prospects in Ir,dia", May, 1982, page 126.



-51-
particularly in pump-lift commands has a primary role in such development,
has been handicapped by lack of direct ties to the Irrigation Department. To
help promote better coordination, effective farmer involvement and rapid
achievement of benefits from project investments, responsibility for CAD has
been placed under the Irrigation Secretary.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      All project components are important parts of the continuing GOH
development strategy to further the welfare of the State's predominantly
rural population through investments to increase productivity and income in
agriculture and direct provision of services in the rural sector. Irrigation
development has been perhaps the key driving force behind general economic
development in the relatively arid climate of Haryana. With the completion
of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal in 1984, the last major addition to the
water supplies available to Haryana will be developed. Even with the addi-
tional SYL water, some 50% of the surface irrigation command, already served
by canals, will remain unirrigated each season due to lack of water. Invest-
ments designed to increase the efficiency of water delivery and use are
therefore of primary importance in maintaining the strong pace of economic
and agricultural development in the State.
7.02      GOH development strategy also aims at balanced general economic
progress and includes development of production support services and social
infrastructure to improve the quality of life and health for the rural
agricultural population, and indirectly to raise their productivity. Project
investments in village water supply and village access roads, which are
particularly targeted on those areas and villages most in need, are an
integral part of the project.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.03      Irrigation investments would at full development in 1989 directly
increase agricultural production in the State by about 491,000 tons of
foodgrain and raise net farm income some Rs 540 M (US$60 M) annually. In
addition, the project would generate substantial indirect social benefits
from village access roads and water supply schemes. These indirect benefits
have not been quantified due to lack of data and wide variations from scheme
to scheme. The analysis here focusses on direct production benefits from
irrigation investments, and calculations of economic rates of return for the
project consider only those benefits.
7.04      Main project beneficiaries include Haryana farmers, Indian
foodgrain consumers, and labor. The project would increase farm income, and
benefit foodgrain consumers through greater production of foodgrain and sales



-52-
of low-priced foodgrains under GOI procurement schemes. Project construction
activities would generate about 57 M man-days of construction employment over
the four-year project period. In addition, as a result of increased
irrigated area, farm employment would expand by about 10.4 M man-days in
Bhakra and 7.0 M man-days in WYC command areas.
Economic Analysis Assumptions
7.05      The benefit of project components in increased crop production are
evaluated at projected world market prices which measure what India would
have to pay for imports or receive for exports. Most costs, however, are for
items not traded on the world market and are affected by tariffs and trade
restrictions. To make costs and benefits comparable, a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.8 in the economic analysis was assumed for use with
non-traded items based on recent irrigation projects of a similar nature in
India; the SCF used for traded items was 1.0.
7.06      Similarly, an average economic wage rate of 80% of the financial
wage rate was used to approximate the economic cost or shadow wage rate for
labor used in project construction and operation. Most labor will be used
during off-peak periods of the agricultural season when labor demand and its
opportunity cost are relatively low. Analyses of farm labor supply and
demand in various Indian irrigation projects typically indicate a shadow wage
rate for semi-skilled and unskilled agricultural labor of approximately 50%
to 70%. Due to the high irrigated cropping intensity in Haryana, however,
the shadow wage rate is considered to be somewhat higher than for most other
States. Prices for fertilizer, pesticides and insecticides have been valued
at projected world market prices. The economic prices for seeds and miscel-
laneous charges have been assumed to approximate their financial prices, and
the economic price of bullock power for farm operations is based on the
prevailing rental price per bullock pair adjusted by the SCF. All crop
budget models are based on financial prices. The projected future without
the proiect assumes that existing cropping patterns persist. Benefits and
costs are based on constant 1982 financial and economic prices.
Economic Rate of Return for the Project
7.07      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project based on
estimated benefits and costs and using assumptions as above is 29%. The ERR
values for the various irrigation components are summarized as follows (Table
25):



-53-
ERR          Net Present Value /a
Component                /                  Rs.M
Modernization of Canals          42.3                1,310.1
Modernization of Watercourses
Gravity Areas                 17.6                 130.9
Pump-lift Areas               21.7                  40.0
Augmentation Tubewells           46.5                  227.2
Sprinkler Irrigation             62.0                 113.6
Total Project                 29.0               1,591.0
/a   Discounted at 12%.
The results above reflect large sunk costs (incurred years ago) in the exist-
ing main irrigation systems, which constitute an important underexploited
asset. The economic analysis of the overall project includes costs for
village water supply and access roads but excludes costs of R&D and training.
7.08      Modernization of Canals.  The only benefits quantified and used in
the economic analysis are production increases as a result of irrigated area
expansion due to reduced seepage losses from canal lining. Full benefits
from canal modernization are assumed to accrue by the second year after
completion of works. This is justified because in normal operations the
canal system managers, and the farmers served, plan and operate to be able to
accommodate substantial year-to-year variations in water supplies available
in the systems. Additional benefits, such as reduced waterlogging and deep
percolation, less water travel time, reduced weed growth, and improved opera-
tional efficiency and ease of management have not been quantified or included
in project benefits. Seepage loss reductiong from canal lining are conserva-
tively estimated to average about 6 cfs/M ft of wetted perimSter, and
estimated seepage losses saved total about 1572 cfs or 960 Mm annually (para
3.15-3.17). Based on experience with the Bhakra and WYC systems as presently
designed and operated (i.e., at current efficiencies), the water saved would
be sufficient to irrigate an additional area of 114,000 ha in Bhakra and
34,000 ha in WYC in rabi and kharif seasons combined. The incremental
increase in the economic value of production with the project at full
development will total about Rs 663.0 M annually, compared to canal modern-
ization costs including physical contingencies of Rs 916.4 M (Table 25b).
7.09      Modernization of Watercourses.  Benefits include reduction in
seepage losses, improved operation, more reliable water deliveries, and more
equitable distribution of water within each watercourse CCA. However,
benefits are estimated mainly on the basis of increased irrigated area
resulting from reduced seepage losses. Farmers in the Bhakra and WYC command
areas are fully accustomed to irrigation, and watercourse improvements on
each chak are clearly visible to farmers. Particularly in watercourse tail
areas, the increase in stream size of water deliveries is apparent as soon as
watercourse modernization works are complete. Full benefits from the works
for each chak are therefore assumed to accrue by the first year following



-54-
completion of the watercourse. The estimated incremental value in crop
production expected from watercourse modernization annually at full develop-
ment totals Rs 221.0 M compared to estimated costs including physical contin-
gencies of Rs 702.1 M in gravity areas and pump-lift areas combined (Table
25c).
7.10      Augmejtation Tubewells.  ATWs under the project are expected to
add some 450 Mm of water to the systems at full development. The existing
canal systems can easily accommodate this amount of added water, and farmers
can readily use it. Benefits for each group of ATWs, based only on an
increase in irrigated area, are therefore assumed to accrue in the first year
after completion of each ATW group. The value of incremental estimated
production from ATW investments totals about Rs 216.6 M annually at full
development, compared to estimated investment costs including physical con-
tingencies of Rs 149.4 M (Table 25d).
7.11      Sprinkler Irrigation.  Sprinkler irrigation allows more efficient
field application of water and hence increased area irrigated with the same
amount of water. The net benefit of sprinkler irrigation is based on the
increase in irrigation intensity under sprinkler irrigation compared to
present surface irrigation intensities, because the water used with sprinkler
sets could as well have been used with surface application elsewhere *n the
commands. Benefits under the project are estimated on the basis of actual
irrigation intensities reported for existing GOH sprinkler sets, compared to
surface irrigation intensities under present field practices. However,
sprinkler irrigation is a new technology for farmers in the project area, and
benefits are conservatively projected to build up to full development levels
over a three-year period. Net incremental benefits from sprinkler irrigation
are expected to reach Rs 40.6 M annually at full development, compared to
investment costs including physical contingencies of Rs 26.7 M (Table 25e).
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
7.12      Agriculture production in the project area is sensitive to varia-
tions in weather and quantity and timing ot rainfall even under irrigated
conditions. Because no increases in yields have been assumed in estimating
project benefits, the impact of weather on project viability should be mini-
mal. The primary uncertainty concerns the amount of water actually saved due
to canal and watercourse modernization, and in particular the farmers' reac-
tions to the increased water supplies in expanding their irrigated area. In
addition, based on experience with Haryana I, some risk of cost overrun does
exist, particularly in the event of a scarcity of key materials.
7.13      Sensitivity to various uncertainties was analyzed using switching
values. Switching values indicate reduction (increase) in benefits (costs)
required to reduce net incremental discounted benefits to zero, using a
specified opportunity cost of capital assumed to be 12% in India. Based on
this analysis, the main uncertainties do not affect the economic viability of
the project. In addition the switching value for the price of wheat, the



-55-
major crop in terms of value, is 55%, and a lag in benefits of four years
would be required to reduce the project net present value to zero. Sen-
sitivity analysis results are summarized as follows:
Appraisal   Switching
Estimate      Value       Change
Variables Tested /a            Rs M         Rs M          %
Incremental Benefits             3,426.5       1,835.1       -46
Investment Costs                  1,424.5      3,015.9      +112
7a   For total project; see Tables 25b-e for analysis of
individual components.
Environmental Impact
7.14      The project is not expected to have any negative environmental
effects. However, it should have a favorable impact due to canal and water-
course lining and more efficient operational capabilities which will help
reduce seepage and deep percolation losses to groundwater. This is important
to help slow the rise in brackish groundwater levels which is occurring in
some areas of the interior basin of Haryana, and thus to provide time needed
to develop and implement plans for dealing with the potential future problems
of waterlogging and secondary soil salinization. Investment in drainage
facilities over 60% of the project area at the rate of US$500/ha in years
10-20 of the project would reduce the project ERR to 19%. Particularly in the
pump lift areas, project investments to intensify irrigation are also
expected to help reduce wind erosion and slow the advance of the desert. In
addition, Haryana would undertake all necessary measures to minimize the risk
of malaria and other water-related diseases within the project area.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements have been reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the IDA credit available to GOH for project expenditures in
accordance with established procedures for devlopment assistance to State
Governments, and insure adequate State budget resources and financing to
implement the project over the four-year project period (para 4.05).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOR that it would:
(a) develop not later than December 31, 1983 new or improved design
standards for modernization of canal and water regulation
facilities, to adequately reflect projected operational require-
ments (para 3.09);



-56-
(b) prepare by September 30, 1983 plans to be carried out after
review and comment by IDA to organize a farmer Sprinkler
Irrigation Association at each sprinkler set site (para 3.42);
(c) develop and provide to IDA for its review and comment not later
than September 30, 1983 a manpower development program for
in-service and new recruit training for ID staff (para 3.52);
(d) develop and provide to IDA for its review and comment not
later than September 30, 1983 work plans and schedules for
R&D activities (para 3.54);
(e) maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, insure
these accounts are audited annually by the State Accountant
General and the resulting, interim statements of account are
submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year, and make complete accounts and financial
statements available for inspection during IDA review missions
(para 4.12);
(f) maintain and appropriately staff the Research and Development
and Training Unit and thet Research and Development Steering
Committee within the Irrigation Department (para 5.06);
(g)  form by June 30, 1983 Spe!cial Project Units in the Irrigation
Department to undertake pilot projects and other field Research
and Development activities under the project, and to support
and monitor Sprinkler Irrigation Associations (para 5.07);
(h)  establish by June 30, 1983 an Appraisal and Monitoring Cell
at the PH head office (para 5.12);
(i) make adequate arrangements for operation and preventive main-
tenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment provided under
the project (para 5.14);
(j)  develop and furnish to IDA for its review and comment by
December 31, 1983 plans with procedures and timetables for
formation of effective Shareholders Maintenance Committees on
project watercourses including a model draft maintenance agree-
ment between ID/HSMITC and SMCs, and under those plans carry
out arrangements for maintenance monitoring and reporting pro-
cedures and mechanisms to insure prompt and timely watercourse
maintenance (para 5.20);
(k) ensure that water charge collections cover canal system operation
and maintenance costs plus a reasonable share of canal
modernization costs, that additional charges for watercourses
collected annually from farmer beneficiaries amount to at
least 45% of amortized watercourse modernization capital
costs including a watercourse maintenance charge of 3% of capital



-57-
costs, and that charges to village panchayats for water supplies
cover full operating and maintenance costs for village water
supply schemes (paras 6.13 and 6.17); and
(1) undertake all necessary measures to minimize the risk of
malaria and other water-related diseases in the project area
(para 7.14).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable tor an IDA credit of US$150.0 M on standard terms. US$3.2 M would
be available from the credit for retroactive financing of qualified expendi-
tures incurred on or after February 1, 1983. The borrower would be GOI.



-58-
T..hle
INDIrA
hARYANA IRRIGATION 11 P?O.JFCT
Seasonal Sarface Irrigation Ponpjy
Bhakra Canal System _/
1969170   1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78              1978/79    Mean
k1LAR IF
Irrig. supply at main canal head (Mn')    3,047          3,026       2,906        3,090       3,273       2,710       2.993       2,940       2,738        3,223      2.995
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                        404         383         375         413         422         390         423          376         371         398        395
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  1/            34.6        32.9        32.1        35.4        36.1        33.4        35.3         32.3        31.8        33.7       .3.8
Gross supply per ha of crop (m3)                                                                                                                                      7,582
RABI
Irrig. supply at nai  canal head (Mn3)    2,857          2,290       2,693        1,996       2,717       1,766       2,961       2,655       3,135        3,152      2,622
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                        478         448         486         470         477         398         494          475         493         536        476
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  1/            41.0        38.4        41.7        40.3        40.9        34.1        42.4         40.7        42.3        46.0       40.8
Gross supply per ha of crop (n3)                                                                                                                                      5,508
TOTAL FOR YEAR
Irrig. supply at nain canal head (M-')    5,904          5,316       5,509        5,086       5,990       4,476       5,954       5,595       5,873        6,375      5,608
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                        882         831         861         883         898         788         917          851         864         934        871
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  1/            75.6        71.3        73.8        75.7        77.0        67.5        77.7         73.0        74.1        79.7       74.5
Gross supply per ha of crop (m3)                                                                                                                                      6,439
West Yamena Canal System 2/
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    Mean
KHARIF
Irrig. supply at main canal head (MP3)         2,074      2,002      1,958      2,138        2,068      1,897       2,152       1,794       1,554       2,090      1,973
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                          268        245        243        257         279        301         305         257          249         274        268
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  3/             24.7       22.6        22.4       23.7        25.7       27.7        28.1        23.7         22.9        25.3       24.7
Gross supply per ha of crop (m3)                                                                                                                                    7,362
RABI
Irrig. supply at main canal head (Mm3)         1,267      1,420      1,694      1,294        1,836      1,683       1,906       1,420       1,799       1,875      1,619
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                          327        354        383        358         419        386         428         387          390         412        384
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  3,              30.1       32.6       35.3       35.0        38.6       35.6        39.4        35.7         36.0        38.0       35.6
Gross supply per ha of crop (m3)                                                                                                                                   4,217
TOTAL FOR YEAR
Irrig. supply at main canal head (Mm3)         3,341      3,422      3,652      3,422        3,904      3,580       4,058       3,214       3,353       3,965      3,591
Area irrigated ('000 ha)                          595        599        626        615         698        687         733         644          639         686        652
Area irrigated - percent of CCA  3/             54.8        55.2       57.7       58.7        64.3       63.3        67.5        59.4        58.9         63.3       60.3
Gross supply per ha of crop (n3)                                                                                                                                    5,508
1/ Bhakra CCA remains constant = 1.166 M ha.
2/ Exclading supplies to lift canal.
3/  WYC CCA remains constant = 1.085 M ha.
Source:  Irrigation Department, GOP.



-59-
Table 2
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimate of Annual Groundwater Recharge and Use-/
Recharge                                    No. of
Total    Annual Total                      Proposed
District           Kharif  Rabi  Annual   Draft  Recharge  Utilization    Tubewells
 - - ----- Mm3-               -              %
Ambala              1,064   356   1,420       901    519          63
Kurukshetra         1,485   370   1,855   1,689    166            91
Bhiwani               314   247      561      141    420          25
Sirsa                 271   549      820      253    567          31             75
Jind                  303   428      731      253    478          35            125
Rohtak                377   228      605      345    260          57
Sonepat               351   200      551      319    232          58
Hissar                398   986   1,384       401    983          29            125
Mohindergarh          526    47      573      454    119          79
Karnal              1,576   601   2,177   2,131       46          98
Gurgaon               541   161      702      495    207          71
Faridabad             461   302      763      357    406          47
Total State       7,667 4,475  12,142   7,739  4,403            64            325
1/    Estimate as of April 1, 1981.
Source: Haryana State Minor Irrigation and Tubewells Corporation.



-60-
Table 3
INDIA,
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Achievements under Haryana Irrigation I
Project (Cr, 843-IN)
Projected    Achievement of Target
Appraisal Targets   Progress   Progress              by 2/28/83
Project                    Physical Financial    3/31/82    2/28/83         Physical    Financial
Component                    Units    Rs M          Rs M         Rs M          %             %
Canal Modernization        250 Msq.ft.  586.0        702.0      830.0        106           142
Watercourse Modern-
ization
Gravity Areas        31.2 M Rft    583.6         318.5      395.0         61           68
Pump-Lift (Jui)        1.8 M Rft      33.2        34.7       47.0         92          142
Augmentation Tubewells
Tubewells                325         107.8        82.0       90.0         88           83
Electrification          325          39.9        15.8       20.0         88           50
Land Levelling           12,000 ha        11.6         0.1        0.2         14             2
Village Water Supply         175         100.6        90.6      155.6        199          155
Village Access Roads    1,322 km         208.6       153.8      204.0        110           98
Agricultural Markets          26         234.3        93.2      175.0         73            75
Technical Assistance         -             3.5         2.5        1.8         -             50
Total                      1,9(9.1    1,174.7   1,918.6           -           100



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Climatic Data
Average
Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr     May      Jun      Jul      Aug      Sep     Oct      Nov      Dec      Annual
HISSAR (Zone I)
(1971-1981)
Temperature (C)
Max.                          21.3    24.5    30.0    37.0    41.2    40.8    37.0    35.0    35.3    34.4    29.0    23.1
Min.                            5.1     7.8    12.5    18.6    23.5    26.6    26.7    25.8    23.0    17.0            9.7      5.7
Mean                          13.2    16.2    21.3    27.8    32.4    33.7    31.9    30.6    29.2    25.7    19.4    14.4
Relative Humidity (X)
Max.                             79      72      ,62       48       42      53       73       78       73      63       64       76
Min.                            46       40       34       26       23      33       57       64       53      39       38       43
Mean                             63      56       48       37       33      43       65       71       63      51       51       60
Rainfall (mm)                    13.7    12.8    10.0       5.2    11.9    35.8   105.4   118.8    71.5    12.9          4.5      8.6        411.1
Sunshine (hr/day)                 7.6     8.5      8.9      9.2     8.9      6.5      6.4      7.2     8.7      9.4      8.8      8.1          8.2
Wind Speed (km/hr)                5.4      6.4     7.1      8.7      9.5    10.3      9.4      6.5      6.3      5.1     4.3      4.8          7.0
Potential Evapotrans. (mm)    49.7    71.6   124.1   168.4   221.9   231.4   197.6   164.2   153.8   118.5    66.9    47.0                 1,615.1
KARNAL (Zone II)
(1968-1978)
Temperature (IC)
Max.                          20.2    24.0    29.4    35.7    39.7    39.6    34.9    32.9    33.3    31.5    27.2    22.8
Min.                           7.0      9.2    14.1    19.3    24.2    26.6    25.7    25.0    23.6    17.3    11.9             8.4
Mean                          13.6    16.6    21.8    27.5    32.0    33.1    30.3    29.0    28.5    24.4    19.6    15.6
Relative Humidity (%)
Max.                             85      73       64       45       41      55       79       85       79      73       64       79
Min.                            31       38       33       21       19      34       62       71       61      46       41       47
Mean                             58      56       49       33       30      45       71       78       70      60       53       63
Rainfall (mm)                   40.3    22.4    23.1        8.9      8.0    59.5   151.6   229.7   130.7    71.1         6.8      8.4        760.5
Sunshine (hr/day)                 6.4     8.0      7.9    10.0    10.9    10.2        5.4      4.6      7.7     9.8      9.4      7.6          8.2
Wind Speed (km/hr)                7.2     9.3      9.3      9.6      9.8     9.3      7.5      6.1      5.9      6.2     6.5      6.2          7.7
Potential Evapotrans. (man)    47.7    70.4   121.5   168.7   211.7   220.4   168.9   150.8   145.8   111.1    65.6    46.4                1,529.0
AMBALA (Zone III)
(1971-1980)
Temperature (C)
Max.                          20.8    23.8    29.6    36.2    40.8    40.5    35.2    33.8    35.4    33.2    28.6    23.2
Min.                           6.8      8.5    14.1    19.1    24.9    27.3    26.0    25.4    23.9    16.4    10.2             7.1
Mean                          13.8    16.2    21.9    27.7    32.9    33.9    30.6    29.6    29.7    24.8    19.4    15.2
Relative Humidity (%)
Max.                             79      73       61       41       36      49       78       82       80      68       68       78
Min.                            52       44       33       22       21      32       63       68       58      41       39       48                      H
Mean                             66      59       47       32       29      41       71       75       69      55       54       63
Rainfall (mm)                   42.0    51.8    28.2    11.9    15.2    72.0   271.6   249.5   168.2    27.3             6.4    14.7         958.8
Sunshine (hr/day)                 6.9     7.7      8.5      9.8    10.9    10.3       6.6      6.3      8.4    10.3      9.5      7.4          8.6
Wind Speed (kmlhr)                5.5     6.7      7.3      7.2      8.0     8.6      7.1      5.4      4.9     4.4      4.7      4.9          6.2
Potential Evapotrans. (mm)    45.9    67.4   120.9   163.2   209.8   214.5   162.8   142.6   140.8   107.0    63.0    43.2                 1,481.1
Source: Department of Agricultural Meteorology, Hissar Agricultural University.



-62-
INDIA                                          Table 5
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(% of Net CCA)
Crop Yields, Present arLd Projected Cropping Patterns
Present and Future                  Future With
Without Project                      Project
Yield               Bhakra        West Jamuna        Bhakra       West Jamuna
Kharif                    irri       rf        :Lrri    rf      irri    rf      irri    rf      irri    rf
tlha ----   - ------------% of net CCA----------------------
Paddy, HYV               3.5        -         5.9      -       6.8     -       7.8     -       8.8     -
Paddy, Loc.              2.8        -         1.1      -       2.0     -       1.1     -       1.1     -
Bajra, HYV               0.9       0.6        5.1     4.4      7.7    7.0      5.1    4.4      7.7    7.0
Bajra, Loc.               -        0.4         -     20.2       -    28.1       -    20.2       -    28.1
Pulses                   0.7       0.5        0.5     0.4      0.6    1.0      1.0    0.4      1.1    1.0
Maize                     1.0      0.8        0.4     2.0      0.2    1.8      2.0    2.0      0.6    1.8
Cotton, Amer.            1.2        -        14.2      -       4.4     -      18.2     -       4.4     -
Cotton, Loc.             0.8        -         7.7      -       2.6     -       6.7     -       2.6     -
Fodder (Sorghum)        32.0      26.0        2.1     6.0      1.7    9.1      3.1    6.0      1.7    9.1
Sub-Total                                38.0    33.0    26.0   47.0    45.0   33.0    28.0   47.0
Rabi
Wheat, HYV                2.3       -        24.4      -      24.3     -      32.0     -      28.3     -
Wheat, Loc.              1.8       1.1        2.8     1.8      1.5    2.0      2.8    1.8      1.5    2.0
Gram                     0.9       0.6        7.6    10.3      3.5   15.3      7.6    7.3      2.5   15.3
Mustard                  0.7       0.4        7.4     2.9      1.5    6.0      8.8    1.9      1.5    6.0
Barley                   1.2       0.9        2.4     2.0      1.2    2.7      2.4    2.0      1.2    2.7
Sugarcane               40.0        -         3.4      -       4.0     -       3.4     -       4.0     -
Fodder (Berseem)        46.0        -         2.0      -       2.0    _        2.0     -       2.0     -
Sub-Total                                50.0    17.0    38.0   26.0    59.0   13.0    41.0   26.0
Irrigation
Intensity (%)                                 88               64              104             69
Total Cropping
Intensity (%)                                    138              137             150             142
irri   irrigated
rf   = rainfed
a/ Both Bhakra and WYC Commands.



-63-
Table 6
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed Canal Modernization Program 1/
No. of
Canal System                   Channels           Length 1/          Area 2/
and Division                                         km              M sq ft
Bhakra
Fatebhad                       41                483.8             52.2
Tohena                         24                381.7             34.7
Rori                           19                273.9             25.6
Sirsa                          23                244.7             25.3
Bhattin                        17                214.8             19.0
Narwana                        25                312.1             45.2
Pehowa                         15                233.7             21.6
Total Bhakra       164              2,144.7            233.6
West Yamuna
Haryana                        39                331.2             27.1
Jind                           30                249.7             13.5
Rohtak                         35                280.4             17.7
Delhi                          35                341.6            14.6
Karnal                         36                274.6             15.4
Bhiwani                        17                133.5              7.9
Hissan                         15                103.5              4.7
Total              207              1,714.5            100.9
Both Systems           371               3,859.2           324.5
1/ Not all channels would be completed under Haryana II, which will accomplish
about 250 million square feet in total, or about2,859 km of channels.
2/ Represents area before lining. Lined area will be approximately 15% less.



-64-
Table 7
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
List of Proposed Canal Radio Stations
Bhakra System                                        WYC System
1.  Chandigarh 2/                                    1.  Tajewala
2.  RD 160 Narwana Branch                            2.  Dadupur
3.  Kaithal                                          3.  Indri
4.  Tohana                                           4.  Bhudhera
5.  Hissar                                           5.  Karnal
6.  Kajal Fall                                       6.  Munak
7.  Sirsa                                            7.  Anta
8.  Ottu                                             8.  Jind
9.  RD 401 Bhakra Main Branch                        9.  RD 121 Sundar Sub-branch
10. Bhiwani
11.  Khubru
12. Rohtak
13. Delhi
1/   Coordinates both systems.



-65-
Table 8a
iN[IiA
HARYfANA IRRIGAFTION Ii PrOJE0T
rroject Componerit h o ime
Total
Bs-se C os.ts         ---------------
(USs
33/834  34/5  835/i6 .   6/87     R-s   Milion)
i:. OiNeL ;i.ODEKPMl-'T1.LN                  _3t5   2 3  2j 203  220.3   884t3          53.3
R    PitT E C0UR3S E   0 rCERN:2 'LT I 0N
3iFHiV1Ty AREA                              I40.2i  139.`  i39O  139.0   557,2         61.9
I23,9   23.    ,3      2.0       92.9      10.I3
Suo-Total iJTERCOURSE MODERNIZATiON            164.1  162,0  162.0 , 162.    650.2 762
C. AUGMENTATION TUBEWELLS
TUBEIELLS                                    29,9   29.7   29.b 2 .,6   118.?           13.2
E LECTRTFICATION                              5.9    5.      J.9    5.9    23.6          2,6
SuJb-Total AU3EiENTiTiON TUBEWELLS              35.3   35.6   35.5   35,5   142.3           15.8
0, 3PRINKLER IFRIGMTTIGN                         2         ..3   . 6+9    6.?    23.2 2,6
E.  0iL h3E WATER SUPPLf                        50ia8.a59.0 63.    29.5   20?i5            231+
Ft VILLEuE ACLEaF ROAD0                          3.2   15t5   15i5    9.3    48.0            5.3
c. RKID and TRAINING                            1. 0u   2.0   13 5 ' ."  0    4t5    54,4    6+0
T.otal BASELINE COSTS                            494.1  52I,3  526.5  467t9 2G009.    2L23.3
i-sicail ColtiflIefcies                       33.3   37 1   37.5   31.5   139.4          15+5
r'rlOe Cvritlsenoei!, '20' +5  171.3  193.9   553.4                                        61.5
Total PFvOjE;ST COSTS                            595.2  678.9  735.3  693.4 2,702i7    300+3
-or-elof; L';;Onflr;aCge                         .'       liOc.2    94.   380. 3          42 +3



-66-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT                                         Table  8b
Sumearv Account ba Project Component
(Rs. Million)
WATERCOURSE
MODERNIZATION                                                                                  Physical
-----------------  AUBMENTATION TUBEWELLS                 VILLAGE VILLAGE                      Contingencies
CANAL     GRAVITY              -------- --------- SPRINKLER   WATER  ACCESS  RID and                       -------------
MODERNIZATION  AREA   LIFT AREA TUBEWELLS ELECTRIFICATION IRRIGATION SWPLY   ROADS  TRAINING Total               7    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                   753.7   440.4        73.9       78.3               1.4         0.6   163.7    42.7       12.9 1,567.5   6.9   108.5
Physical Contingencies                         37.7    35.2         5.9        3.9              0.1         0.1    19.6       4.3       1.7   108.5   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                           205.0   123,2        20.7       21.2              0.4         0.2    46.7    12.4        3.3   433.2   6.5    28.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                996.4   598.9       100.5      103.4               1.8         O.B   230.1    59.3       17.9 2,109.1   6.5   136.5
Foreign Exchange                              157.7    44.3         7.7       19.5              0.5         0.1    46.0    12.7         1.6   290.1   6.4    18.6
B. EOUIPMENT                                       31.3     1.1        0.2       22.0              20.8        22.6    20.1        -      10.4   128.7   7.8    10.0
Physical Contingencies                          1.4      0.1        0.0        1.1              1.0         3.4      2.4        -       0.5    10.0   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                             8.1      0.2        0.0        6.0              5.7         7.4      4.2        -       2.8    34.3   7.2       2.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  40.8     1.4        0.2       29.1             27.5        33.4    26.7         -      13.8   173.0   7.2    12.5
Foreign Exchange                               13.3      0.2        0.1        8.7              B.0         8.4      5.3        -      10.2    54.2   6.2      3.3
C. VEHICLES                                           -     5.1         0.7         -                 -           -        -       -         -     5.8   8.0       0.5
Physical Contingencies                             -     0.4        0.1          -                 -          -        -        -         -     0.5   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                                -     1_ 4       0.1                                      - _  -    -        -         -     1.5   7.4      0.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     -     7.0        0.9           -                -           -        -       -         -      7.8   7.4      0.6
Foreisn Exchanse                                   -     2.8        0.3          -                 -           -       -        -         -     3.1   7.4       0.2
D. ENGINEERING                                     88.6    17.9        3.1          -                 -           -        -       -         -   109.6   5.6       6.1
Physical Contingencies                          4.4      1.4        0.3          -                 -           -       -        -         -     6.1   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                            24.1      5.0        0.9          -                 -           -       -        -         -    30.0   5.3       1.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 117.1    24.4        4.3          -                 -           -        -       -         -   145.7   5.3       7.7
E. LAND                                             2.1        -          -       7.4                 -           -     5.9      4.3       1.2    20.9   7.7       1.6
Physical Contingencies                          0.1        -          -        0.4                 -          -      0.7      0.4         -     1.6   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                             0.6        -          -        2.0                 -           -     1.7      1.3       0.3     5.8   7.2      0.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   2.8        -         -        9.8                 -           -     8.3      6.0       1.4    28.3   7.2       2.0
F. ESTABLISHMENT & PRELIMINARY                      1.9    80.1       13.3       10.4               1.2           -    17.8        -         -   124.9   8.2    10.3
Physical Continsencies                          0.1      6.4        1.1        0.5              0.1            -     2.1        -         -    10.3   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                              0.5    22.4        3.7        2.8              0.3            -     5.1        -         -    34.9   7.6      2.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   2.5   109.0       18.1       13.8               1.6           -    25.1        -         -   170.1   7.6    13.0
Foreign Exchanse                                   -    21.0        3.5        0.4                 -           -       -        -         -    24.9   7.4       1.8
G. STUDIES, EXPERIMENTS, and
TECHNICAL SUPPORT                                  -       -          -          -                 -           -       -      1.0     21.7    22.8   4.3        1.0
Physical Contingencies                             -       -          -          -                 -           -       -        -       1.0     1.0   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                -       -          -          -                 -           -       -      0.2      5.4      5.6   4.5      0.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     -        -         -          -                 -           -       -      1.2      2B.1    29.4   4.2       1.2
H. OPERATING COSTS                                  6.6    12.5          .7       0.6               0.2                    - -     -       8.1    29.7   5.1       1.5
Physical Contingencies                          0.3      1.0        0.1        0.0              0.0            -       -        -         -     1.5   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                             1.B      3.5        0.5        0.2              0.0            -       -        -       2.1     8.1   4.8      0.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   8.8    17.0        2.3        0.8               0.2           -        -       -      10.2    39.3   4.8       1.9
Foreign Exchange                                   -     6.8        0.9        0.3                 -           -       -        -         -     8.0   7.3       0.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                               884.3   557.2       92.9      118.7              23.6        23.2   207.5    48.0       54.4 2.009.9   6.9   139.4
Physical Contingencies                             44.1    44.6         7.4       5.9               1.2         3.5    24.      4.7       3.1   139.4   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                              240.1   155.7        25.9       32.2               6.4         7.6    57,7    13.8       14.0   553.4   6.5    35.9
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      1,16B.4   757.6       126.2      156.9             31.2        34.2   290.2    66.6       71.5 2,702.7   6.5   175.3
Foreign Exchange                                  171.0    75.0       12.5       28.9               8.5         8.4    51.4    12.7       11.8   380.3   6.5    24.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  884.3   557.2        92.9      11B.7             23.6        23.2   207.5    48.0       54.4 2Y009.9   6.9   139.4
Physical Contingencies                              44.1    44.6         7.4        5.9              1.2         3.5    24.9      4.7       3.1   139.4   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                240.1   155.7        25.9      32.2               6.4         7.6    57.7    13.8       14.0   553.4   6.5    35.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 1.16B.4   757.6       126.2      156.9             31.2        34.2   290.2    66.6       71.5 23702.7   6.5   175.3
Foreign Exchange                                   171.0    75.0        12.5      28.9               8.5         8.4    51.4    12.7       11.8   380.3   6.5    24.6



-67-                                   Table  8c
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CANAL MODERNIZATION (212 million ft2)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(Rs. ?rillion)
83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. CANAL LININ6
MATERIALS                                 89.0   89.0   89.0   89.0  355.9
LABOR                                     84.3   84.3   84.3   84.3  337.0
EQUIPMENT                                  2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6   10.3
Sub-Total CANAL LINING                      175.8  175.8  175.8  175.8  703.2
B. IMPROVEMENT OF CONTROL
AND ACCESS STRUCTURES
MATERIALS                                  7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2   28.7
LABOR                                      4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   19.0
Sub-Total IMPROVEMENT OF CONTROL
AND ACCESS STRUCTURES                     11.9   11.9   11.9   11.9   47.7
C. GENERAL ITEMS
PRELIMINARY SURVEY                         0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    1.9
BUILDINGS                                  3.3    3.3    3.3    3'3   13.1
LAND                                       0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    2.1
MAINTENANCE                                1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    6.6
MISCELLANEOUS                              4.5    4,5    4.5    4.5   17.8
Sub-Total GENERAL ITEMS                      10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4   41.6
D. ENGINEERING                               22.1   22.1   22.1   22.1   88.6
E. RADIO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM                 3.2       -      -       -    3.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         223.5  220.3  220.3  220.3  884.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                            223.5  220.3  220.3  220.3  884.3
/a Cost Per ft2 estimated at Rs. 4.16.



-ES-                                                      Table  8d
INDIA
H3RY868 IRRIGATION M 1RO ECT
WATERCOURSE MODERNIZATION -- GRAVITY (1700 WATERCOLRSES - 20M RUNNING FEET;
Detailed Cost farle
Faso CLsts
SUantito                                                 Rs.  M ilOrt)
Unit      83/84       E4/85       65/86       86/87       Total    Uirt Cost 83/84  94/85  8'i86 86/8?  'ote!
1. INVESTMEN' COSTS
8. DESIGN I /a
1.0 NSTRUCTI0N
CEhENT                                    100 lb Dad  133,337.5  133,337.5  133,337.5  133,337.5    533,350           34.58    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6   18.4
BRICKS                                       1300       16,662.5   16,662.5   16,662,5   16,662.5         66,650         437    7.3     7      7.3    7.3   23.1
SAND                                          .3          13,805      13,805      13,905      13,905      55,620         135    1.9    1.8    1.9    1.9    7.5
GRAVEL                                        .3        12,762.5   12,762.5   12,762.5   12,762.5         51,050      158.2    2.0    2.0       'IO    2.0    8.1
SLATE                                         .3        15,237.5   15,237.5   15,237.5   15,237.5         60,950         107    1.6    1.,    1.6    1.6    6.5
POLYETHELENE                                  .2         348,575    348,575    348,575    348,575  1,384,300            1.07    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.5
EARTHWTRK                                     .3         778,100    778,100    778,100    778,100  3,112,400           3.92    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1   12.2
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                            20.8   20.8  2'.8   70.8   83.4
2. FIRST YE4R IMPROVEMENTS  Ib                                                 -           -           -                           1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    4.7
3. STRUCTURES /c                                                               -           -           -           -               3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6   14.6
4. ENGINEERING /d                                                  -           -           -           -           -               1.0    1.0    1.0    1.8    4.2
5. hAINTENANCE 11URING CONSTRUCTION  re                            -           -           -           -           -               0.1    0.1    1.1    0.1    0.3
Sob-Total DESIGN I /a                                                                                                                26,o   26.6   26.6   26.6  106.5
8. DESIGN 2 /f
1. CONSTRUCTION
CENENT                                    100 lb tao  400,012.5  400,812.5  400,012.5  400,012.5  186005050           34.58   13.8   13.B   13.8   13.8   55.3
BRICKS                                       1000         88,665      88,665      88,665      88,665    354,660         437   38.7   38.7   38.7   38.7  155.0
SAND                                          .3          47,700      47,700      47,700      47,700    190,800         135    6.4    6.4    8.4    6.4   25.8
EARTHW8R8                                     .3    2,500,001.32,5'0,001.32,500,001.32,500,001.3 10,000,805            3.92    8.8    0.8    9.8    8.8   38.2
Sob-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                            68.8   68.8   68.8   68.8  275.3
2. FIRST YEAR INPRWOEhENTS  /s                                     -           -           -           -           -               3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4   13.8
3. STRUCTURES lh                                                   -           -           -           -           -              12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   48.2
4. ENGINEERING 1i                                                  -           -           -           -                           3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4   13.8
5. MAINTENANCE DURIN8  CONSTRUCTION  /                             -           -           -           -           -               0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.8
Sub-Total DESIGN 2 7t                                                                                                                88.0    8.0   88.5   88.0  351.8
C. EQUIPMENT
JEEPS                                                             12          11          it          11          45    60,400    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    2.7
TRUCKS                                                             3           3           3           3          12   120,800    0.4    2.4    0.4    0.4    1.4
TRACTORS, TRAILERS                                                 3           3           3           3          12    80.600    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.0
SHEEPSFOOT ROLLER                                                 90           -           -           -          80      4,000    0.4       -       -      -    0.4
MISC. T aF                                                                           -           -P0.                                        -       -      -    0.8
Sub-Total EOUIPhENT                                                                                                                    2.5    1.3    1.3    1.3    6.3
D. OPERATING COSTS
1. JEHICLES
JEEFS                                         pa                -           -           -           -           -               1.8    1.E    1.8    1.8    7.2
TRUCKS                                        Pa                -           -           -           -           -               0.8    O.B    0.8    0.8    3.4
TRACTORS , TRAILERS                           pa                -           -           -           -           -               0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    1.8
Sob-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                 3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1   12.5
2. OWERNEADS
FIRST YEAR EVALUATION                         Pa                -           -           _                                       0.6    0.6    D.6    0.6    2.3
CORPORATION OVERHEAD                          Pa                -           -           -           -           -              18.7   18.7   18.7   18.7   74.8
Sub-Total OVERHEADS                                                                                                               19.3   19.3   19.3   19.3   77.2
3. STAFF SUPPORT
HOUSING                                       Ca                -           -           -           -           -               0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.0
INCENTIVES                                    Pa                -           -           -           -           -               0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    2.0
Sub-Total STAFF SUPPORT                                                                                                            0-7    0.7    0.7    0.7    3.0
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                             23.2   23.2   23.2   23.2   92.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                  140.2  139.0  139.0  139.0  557.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                                     140.2  130.0  139.0  139.0  557.2
/a  5.h ro-rins feet of linins  ill be constructed usin6 Desigr, 1.    Note:  Financing  by  institutional  credit   oould  be  against
lb  5  of construction costs.                                                         the  total of construction,  equipment,  operating
/c  17.5I of .onstr-ctioo  costs.                                                     costs, overheads  and  staff  oupport esti.ated  at
Id  5  of ctnstructon costs.                                                        Rs 37.90/RFt  total  cost including  physical and
/e  0.30 of corstructior costs.                                                       price  contingencies.   Construction  of housing  for
If  15.0h runoin feet of lin,s aill be const,ucted usin5  Desisn 2.                  HSMITC  field  staff  working  on  -atercourses  is
/o  5% of constroction ctsts.                                                          included  under  estimates  for  canal  modernizatios  and
/h  17.51 of construction costs.                                                      would  be  done by  ID  for HSMITC.
/i 5% of construction costs,
/I 0.30 : construction costs.



-69-                                                    Table  8c
INDIA
AR YANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
UATERCOURSE MODERNIZATION -- LIFT (200 WATERCOURSES -- 3M RUNNING FEET)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Guantits                                            (Rs. Million)
Unit      83184      84/85       85/86      86/87       Total    Unit Cost 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS  /a
1. CONSTRUCTION
CEMENT                                100 lb bas      64,050     64,050      64.050     64.050    256Y200      34.96   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   9.0
BRICKS                                   1000         15P225     15P225      15.225     15w225      60,900       455   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9  27.7
SAND                                      e3          B8770       8,770       8.770     B8770       35,090        123   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   4.3
EARTHWORK                                 *3       1,207,500  1.207,500  1,207.500  1,207P500  4r8304000         4.5   5.4   5.4   5.4   5.4  21.7
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                    15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  62.7
2. STRUCTURES /b                             o3               -          -           -           -          -              2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7  11.0
3. ENGINEERING /c                            e3               -          -           -          -           -              0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   3.1
4. MAINTENANCE DURING CONSTRUCTION /d        a3               -          -           -           -          -              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS  /a                                                                                                    19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  77.0
B. EQUIPMENT
JEEPS                                                         5          -           -           -          5    60r400   0.3      -     -      -   0.3
TRUCKS                                                        2          -           -           -          2   120.800   0.2      -      -     -   0.2
TRACTORS Y TRAILERS                                           2          -           -           -          2    80.600   0.2      -      -     -   0.2
SHEEPSFOOT ROLLER                                            15           -          -           -         15     4.400   0.1      -      -     -   0.1
MISC. T I P                                                   -           -          -           -          -              0.1     -      -     -   0.1
Sub-Total EQUIPMENI                                                                                                           0.9     -      -     -   0.9
C. OPERATING COSTS
1. VEHICLES
JEEPS                                                      5          5           5          5          20    40.000   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
TRUCKS                                                     2          2           2          2           8    709000   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
TRACTORS . TRAILERS                                        2          2           2          2           8    40,000   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                         0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.7
2. OVERHEADS
FIRST YEAR EVALUATION                     pa               _          _           _          -           _              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4
CORPORATION OVERHEAD                      pa               -          -           -          -           -              3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1  12.5
Sub-Total OVERHEADS                                                                                                        3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2  12.9
3. STAFF SUPPORT
HOUSING                                   Pa               -           -          -          -           -              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
INCENTIVES                                pa               -          -           -          -           -              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
Sub-Total STAFF SUPPORT                                                                                                    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                     3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8  15.0
tal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                          23.9  23.0  23.0  23.0  92.9
-1 BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                             23.9  23.0  23.0  23.0  92.9
Construction costs include additional 5% for 1st sr improvesents.               Note:   See Table  8d note.   Estimated  running  foot
17.5X of construction costs.                                                              cost  is Rs 42.10/Rft  including  physical  and
5% of construction costs.                                                                 price  contingencies.
0.3X of construction costs.



n~~~~~ 00                                                  0 _   O  lqI0  0                      g                            'n*  i                        r    a      o                r;       (                                  >#X~c-8#      
>                            S $ 1-'~     S                  Fs                                                                                    ' S00        goSS                            Sv~8E! 
Q W ,,, ,,4 z '-                                          g         __  SZ 
,,,, .                                                                                                                                                                                      ion < Ea ag >z s,  ,,   
P.                                                   i"'P
04    ~ S           4 "-0                      0kCA                         040          _4         -      4..                                      -                      _  110 ,o  
 -  8                    -     -           -              -   -  -                 -  -   -  - -                                                                       .-0Sjj
3   a^a   ai   -.00                     000 0.. .          .             . . . .        -                                                                        o - - - - -
-   -  -                    -        .I.I                    
~t~'i  i  0 W0C0 -0 -0   -  -0 0-1.3.0 _ 0 _                                                                                        0                 0 -          0O
lSi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                                                              .cji-a'          io                                                     oooos,_   ooo-,        0.0r   .0.0  o  ,,      ,OO_O,110
1  u  lili us j ~~~~ ul M j F w  O w i 04-0e_                                                                                                              wjI.;. _ io oo_,i3     >9ioo_~'~, ooj  C0,T30



-71-                                         Table  8g
DM
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
AUGMENTATION TUBEWELLS -- WATER POINTS (WELLS, PUMPING AND CIVIL WORKS)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantity                                         (Rs. '000)
Unit  83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Unit Cost  83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
_______________
A. PRELIMINARY AND LAND
LOCATION OF ATM
I TEMPORARY ACCESS ROAD         Jwell    82    81    81    81   325         500     41,0     40.5      40.5     40.5    162,5
LAND                               acre      3      3     2     2    10    109000      30.0      30.0     20,0     20.0    100.0
ACQUISITION CHARGE  /a              sum      -      -     -     -     -                 6.0       6.0      4.0      4.0      20.0
Sub-Total PRELIMINARY AND LAND                                                            77.0      76,5     64.5     64.5    282.5
B. TUBEVELLS AND PUMPING UNITS
CONSTRUCTION OF TM
FOR NON-CORROSIVE WATER lb      well     50    50    50    50   200    87,100  4,355.0  4Y355.0  4,355.0  4r355,0 17,420.0
CONSTRUCTION OF TM
FOR CORROSIVE MATER /c          well     32    31    31    31   125   117,800  3,769,6  3,651.8  3,651.8  3,651.8 14r725.0
PUMPING UNITS INSTALLED /d         unit     82    81    81    81   325    55,300  4,534.6  4p479.3  4,479.3  4,479.3 17,972.5
Sub-Total TUBEVELLS AND PUMPING UNITS                                                 12P659.2 12,486.1 12,486,1 12,486.1 50,117,5
C, WATER POINT CIVIL WORKS
__ ____ ___ ______ _____
PUMP HOUSE I STAND                 unit     82    81    81    81   325       7,500    615.0    607.5    607.5    607.5  2Y437.5
DELIVERY PIPE                      unit     82    81    81    81   325       8,000    656,0    648.0    648.0    648.0  2,600.0
SLUICE VALVES                      unit     57    56    56    56   225       2,100    119.7    117.6    117,6    117.6    472,5
Sub-Total MATER POINT CIVIL WORKS                                                      1,390.7  1,373,1  1v373.1  1,373.1  5510.0
D. SUPERVISION TRANSPORT
JEEP                                pa       1      1     1     1     4    40,000      40.0      40.0     40,0     40.0    160.0
E. ESTABLISHMENT
ADMINISTRATION I SUPERVISION /e              -      -     -     -      -            1,390.8  1,390.8  1,390.8  1,390.8  5,563.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                   15,557.7 15,366.5 15,354.5 15,354.5 61,633.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                      15,557.7 15,366.5 15,354,5 15,354.5 61,633.0
fa Buildings reouired for water Points are shown under costs of link canal s,stes,
/b 20X of land cost. Includes crop cospensation.
/c 200 tubewells assused for non-corrosive water.
/d 125 tubewells assumed for corrosive water,
/e Includes 10% siares.
/t  10% of  -works



-72-                                      Table 8h
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
AUGMENTATION TUBEWELLS -- POWER TRANSMISSION & TRANSFORMATION (325 TUBEWELLS)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(Rs. million)
83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Tot3l
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
PROPORTION OF PROVISION OF NEW 33/11 KV SUBSTATIONS         0.3   0.3   0,3   0.3   1.4
PROPORTION OF PROVISION OF 33 KV LINE
TO NEW 33/11 KV SUBSTATIONS                              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
PROPORTION OF UPGRADING
19 x 33/11 KV SUBSTATION                                 1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   4.0
DEDICATED 11KV TRANSHISSION LINE (320 ka)                   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   8.8
63 KVA, 11/0.4 KU TRANSFORMATION (325 sets)                  1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   7.1
LT CONNECTION CHARGE /a                                      0.1   0.1   0,1   0.1   0.4
MAINTENANCE DURING CONSTRUCTION
I LOSSES ON STOCK                                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
TREE CUTTINGY CROP COMPENSATION, ETC                        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2
TOOLS I PLANT                                               0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2
ESTABLISHMENT CHARGES /b                                     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          5.9  5,9   5.9   5.9  23.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             5.9   5,9   5,9   5,9  23.6
/a Rs. 1268 Per tubewell.
/b 7.5X OF I-works



-73-
Table  8i
INDIA
Haryana Irrigation II Project
Sprinklers (100 Sets)
Detailed Cost Table
8>ase uo.ts
83/84 84/85 85/86 86187 Tota1
A. SPRINKLER SETS
HAiN LINE                          i..2  3.7   3.7   3.7   2*. 
SPFRINKLER LiNE                    0.,   V.u  03.5   0.5   1,8
STAND - BY LATERAL LINE            0.2  0Q5   0t5   0.5  1i,;:
Eub-Toti  SPRINKLER SETS             1.6   4.7   4.7   4.7  15-8
B. ELECTRiC MOT0R &IDIESEL PUNP    0.6   i.8  1i8   1.8 t,  .
C- SPARES & OTHER PARTS               i.1   0.'   0,    0.2  0, 7
0. CiVJIL WORKS                       O. d'   0.2   0.2   0i2'
Totli INVESTMENT COSTS                   2.3   649   6.9   6.9,  23.2
Thtai BASELINE. COSTS                       .3   6.9   6.?   69?  23.2
Ir;;2..es oPe^'.J 3r;ut.



-74-
Table 8j
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS (197 kn)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(Rs. Million)
83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. EARTHWORK /a                      1.0   1.9   1.9   1.2   5.9
B. SOLING
COLLECTION OF MATERIALS           1.9   3.7   3.7   2.3  11.4
LAY AND COMPACT                   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.6
Sub-Total SOLING                     2.0   3.8   3.8   2.4  12.0
C. WATERBOUND MACADAM
COLLECTION AND
DELIVERY OF MATERIALS          1.2   2.3   2.3   1.4   7.3
LAY AND COMPACT                   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.4   2.0
Sub-Total WATERBOUND MACADAM         1.5   3.0   3.0   1.8   9.3
D. PREMIX CARPET                     1.2   2.3   2.3   1.4   7.3
E. STRUCTURES /b                     1.3   2.5   2.5   1.5   7,8
F. SIGNS * ETC                       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4
S. LAND ACQUISITION                  0.7   1.4   1.4   0.9   4.3
H. ROADS STUDY                       0.5   0.5      -     -   1.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  8.2  15.5  15.0   9.3  48.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                     8.2  15.5  15.0   9.3  48.0
===== ===== ===== ===== =====
/a Including coepaction and site cleararnce.
/b Including bridges and culverts.



Table 8k
-75-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY (120 SCHEME,)
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(Rs, Million)
83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. AMBALA MODEL /a
HEADJWORKS                        3.4   5.2   6.0   2.6   17.2
PUMP MACHINERY                    0.7   1.0   1.2   0.5    3-4
LAND ACQUISITION                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0    0.3
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM               3.1   4.6   5.4   2.3   15.5
ESTABLISHMENT COSTS               0.7   1.1   1.3   0.5    3.6
Sub-Total AMBALA MODEL  /a           8.0  12.0  14.0   6.0   40.0
B. GURGAON MODEL /b
HEADWORKS                         2.7   4.0   4.7   2.0   13.3
PUMP MACHINERY                    0.5   0.8   0.9   0.4    2.7
LAND ACQUISITION                  0.2   0.3   0.4   0.2    1.1
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM               3.4   5.0   5.9   2.5   16.8
ESTABLISHMENT                     0.7   1.0   1.2   0.5    3.4
Sub-Total BURGA4N MODEL  lb          7.5  11.2  13.1   5.6   37.3
C. JIND MODEL /c
HEADWORKS                         4.2   6.3   7.3   3.1   20.9
PUMP HACHINERY                    0.2   0.3   0.3   0.1    0.9
LAND ACOUISITION                  0.2   0.4   0.4   0.2    1.2
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM               2.3   3.4   4.0   1.7   11.4
ESTABLISHMENT                     0.7   1.0   1.2   0.5    3.5
Sub-Total JIND MODEL  /c             7.6  11.4  13.3   5.7   38.0
0. ROHTAK MODEL /d
HEADWORKS                         7.2  10.9  12.7   5.4   36.2
PUMP MACHINERY                    0.3   0.5   0.6   0.3    1.7
LAND ACQUISITION                  0.5   0.7   0.9   0.4    2.5
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM               3.2   4.8   5.6   2.4   16.0
ESTABLISHMENT                     1.1   1.7   2.0   0.8    5.6
Sub-Total ROHTAK MODEL  /d          12.4  18.6  21.7   9.3   62.0
E. SIRSA MODEL /e
HEAWORKS                          1.8   2.7   3.1   1.3    8.9
PUMP MACHINERY                    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.4
LAND ACQUISITION                  0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1    0.7
DISTRIBUTION                      1.5   2.2   2.6   1.1    7.4
ESTABLISHMENT                     0.3   0.5   0.6   0.3    1.7
Sub-lotal SIRSA MODEL  ie            3.8   5.7   6.7   2.9   19.1
F. EQUIPMENT                         7.5      -     -      -    7.5
G. STAND - BY DIESEL EN6INES         3.5      -     -      -    3.5
T I S_S   59-0  68.8  2.   27 ---5--
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                 50.3  59.0  68.8  29.5  207.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                     50.3  59.0  68.8  29.5  207.5
/a  Cost Per capita estisated at Rs 274.3. Model represents schemes for Ambala.Karnal I Kurukshetra.
lb  Cost Per capita estimated at Rs 220.9.  Model represents schemes for Gursaan I Faridabad.
Ic  Cost Per capita estimated at Rs 256.8. Model represents scheme for Jind.
/d  Cost Per capita estisated at Rs 232.3.  Model represents schemes for Rahtak i Sonepat.
Ke  Cost Per capita estimated at Rs 348.0.  Model rePresents schems for Sirsa I Hissar,



-76-
Table 81
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECI
R&D AND TRAINING
Detailed Cast Table
Base Costs
(Rs, Million)
83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total
-.  VET -ENT -- '--
", F aD snd TF;RrINING CENTER
CtiVIL WORKS                                        -   4.0   4.0       -   8.0
EDUiFhENT                                           -   2.6   2.6       -   5.2
INCREMENi'TAL SThF.                               1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   6.1
LANli                                               -   1.2      -      -   1.2
aTHEF                                               -   1.0   1.0       -   2.0
Sub-Tot,3 R-&D snd, TFhAiNTG CEPNTER                 1.5  10.3   9.1   1.5  22.4
B,  CAN .AL RFEGULATION PI OT PFROuECT
CiT!IL WORKE.                                       -   2.8      -      -   2.8
ECOUIFNENT                                          -   2.6   2.6       -   5.3
:- u.--T.t31 CANAL ;EGULATION PILOT PROJECT             -   5.5   2.6      -   8B1
', MODERNIZATION OF
IRRIGATION DEPAFhRTXENT DESIG1N OFFICE            2.1      -     -      -   2.1
1iRRIGTiON/FLOOD CONTROL  EASITBILITY STUIY    3.4   3.3   3.3          -  10.0
1 R, :~N NIFG   O   C 
NEW-RECFRUIT ENGINEERS                            0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.7
IN:-SERV!ICE EiNGINEERS                           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
Sui-Totil TRAINING                                   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   2.0
Fi STUD!'E  AN! NONITORiNG hNII EVALuhTI[N           2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   9.8
T,tai INVESTMENT COSTS                                  10.0  22.0  18.0   4.5  54*4
,i   b;itL ME .U6. 't Z                                 10.0  22.0  18.0   4.5  54.4



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Financing Plan
(Rs M)
Components                       GOI/GOH                          IDA                  Total
Canal Modernization                       584.8                         583.6                 1,168.4
Watercourse Modernization                 463.3                         420.5                    883.8
Augmentation Tubewells                    101.1                          87.0                    188.1
Sprinkler Irrigation                        9.2                          20.9                     30.1
Village Water Supply                      159.4                         130.7                    290.1
Village Access Roads                       35.8                          30.8                     66.6
R&D and Training                            -                            76.5                     76.5
Total                      1,353.6                        1,350.0                 2,703.6
(50%)                         (50%)                  (100%)
H
Xh



CANAL MODERNIZATION
PROCUREMENT  SCHEDULE FOR  CIVIL WORKS                                                               H HARYANA  IRRIGATION  II PROJECT
COUNTRY _   NT_                                                                                                                                                       O-T
ANDPROCURE.  SIA -ED
FRGAI CTOUN ATI0S              sins,eEN RoNN                                                                                                                                       ETO  FPRCRNN
I. Modernization  of                ICB/               -P-O- -U- - -
Existing  Channels Year I   LCB    251.8  ~voo-
unlined  area  58Mf t2                                 ACTUAL.     -     --   -     - 
2,Moderniization  of                                 AIS
Exist i g  Channels Year 2   ICR!OPIRY 
otlined  area  66Mft'              LCB    269.0   Ac_A. -                   -              
3   ModernLization  of               ICB, NEPR DU                              T                 -          - I                                      i
Existing  Channels Year 3   1.CB    288.2               VIE           - -
Unlined  area  66MftU                                   ,-
4. Modernization  ,f                ICB/               AOTAIU-  
TxsigChannels Year 4   LCB             320       OOCs         -
Unlined area 6OMftU
P-REONStttICUI  ACTONUtS                                                   CR RTEI  O D   OACLTETEF ATINC  SFCFCT0ANE1DOUNS,IFNLDLVF  ATIEL3-OC   OMTlV                                                                                                               3
C-lDACLEAFlANCt  OF  OOCUUENTSAND   CFl,TER,^  .    IsSUe  INVlrATION   To  D10                                                                 31DDING                                                              | CK~~DTOUR  P  PROC OCUEN
DC-INTITtE PREPtARlIATION ONPECLTCTO  OUET                                     NTAEPTCAII PTTIIUIO  PSODOOROTICE  PSTU OFENVEO AID                                  SIT                    FIZP-NTEONAPTIONGA
AND EtTALUAOTIANCORITERI  LFI^IO AA                                        6 TTRAOiSPIIEVAI CUATIONAN RDRIO CORNT TWA O F IECOMNAIS            IC INEIDCAIEIA SITE                          COPETTIVC ROCIISOU
AC-AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
P-TMAN UI4T EV*ALATIORS REPORT AND AECOPASENDOTIUNS TO IRA                  / IOA CLEAFOANCE OF RRCOMMIENOATIONS 
0-IRA CLEARANtCE OP REDOMMENRATIOPSO                                        S COCOA CONTRUO ACT0
/a Represents total cost of all the modernization works of different channel6, with updated costs as of March, 1982.



WATERCOURSE MODERNlZATION
PROCUREMENT  SCHEDULE  FOR  CIVIL  WO SRKS
COUNTRY      INDIA                                                                                                                                                                  HARYANA  TRRIGATION  II PROJECT
I X 3 f CiA !': .                                                          8                                83                                 84          .
1. Modernization of                                                                                                          .T_
Watercourses  -Y..r.                   LCB      163.2  OS
5.75 M  running  ft lined                                CO
2. Moderni-ntion, of                         JFs- 
Wat,l-courses  - Year  2               LCB      175.8  -Ol- 
5.75,  N  running  CL lined                             405
3,Mdriationl of
WMater,oorses - Year  3                J.B      16.   Se
5.75 Mrnning  Ct  lined              LO 8.                ,CTC
4. Modernization of
Wlatercouroes     Ya   4                CR      200.7   Ol
5.25 M  running  ft  lined                               CC
PREOCACEFICATION ACTIONS                                                     FROC.,OREMNT ST (ONS                                                                                           OETSOODOT POCIODEDENT                                                                    IP)
A-IUITIOTD PEDEPARATION OF PRDOIIALIFIAATION DOOCUMENTS                         INITIATEH FTEPARTATION. op IITecIF COTIoND 0N0 5,0 IOCUM ENTS       S INITIAL OCIIVDSS OHA SITS              ICD INTDDNATIONAL                                               
AND EV*ALATFoN CRFTERIA                                                    ? TRANSMIT FtSCIF ICATIONS ANG. sIC OOClMD.TS TO IDA                 IC INTtDIM OSUET,DIS AT lIDE                   COMFETIT VE 9DIDINGO                                                              I
3-TR*NMAllT DOCIMENT A.ND CRITERIA *O IDA                                    a IDA CLEOARA. CF Ot SFTCITICAT ON ANO EID OOCoODNTSS                II 0.0,. oe .IVDSS AT SITE                 LCD-COOAL CORPET HIVE                                            
C-IDA OLEARANDE AD OCtUUENTS AND CRITERIA                                       SOIDSJ INVOITATION TO FlUIGEG                                                                                                                
D-ISSOD PREOOACIFICATION NOTICE                                               S OPEEN.1 SIPUDN S  FFNSIc
ErEGlrT F CNTRATGRPREGUALIF ICATION DATA                                C THAWSA ItT E VA.I]A CHOE. REFOOt rO AAWADO RECOMM EICIASITEION To IDA                                         PS FD  OODDSTIA TIFON0
F TRANV.DT EAALUATION REPORT AND RECUDMENDATIONS rO IDA                      H ITO CLECAFSACE lIE RECOMMENUDTIONS
S_IDA CLEARANtE OF RECOIAMENDOTINDN                                           0 AOAACTII.  tDAOT



CANAL MODERNIZATION
INDIA                                              PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS                                              N-ECT    HARYANA IRRIGATION  II PROJECT
METHOD  /a            as 82                           *~~~         ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~9 83  ,;84               1985                            *w 86                            ,87
DMCRIPTIOu BEADE           ROKS      ~T                                                                                                                                                        
1.   Compaction  tractors   ICB!                    NAal.-A
and vibrators               LCB       15.18  REDIBED
2.   Vehicles                    PS lb          3     aao
3.  Pm    - diesel and                              APPRAI-aL                       4. o- 
electric  5 NP to           LCB        6.7    BEIE
18 BPA%L
4.   Cenerating  sets            LCB         5.00     IAIA
R-~~~~~-RA
/b
5.  Workshiop machinery    PS'              0,30  BE-IBE
6.  Portland Puzzolona              lblNEEAISAL                                                                                                                                                                         U
cement 0.4 M tons/ c   PS           280.00  BERE
7.   Slack coal for manu-
facturing  of tiles!    S~             80.0BOC OE
bricks 0.2 N tons  /         S12R TA
PREOU*LIEICATIDN ACTIONS                                                  PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                                                                      MET,ISDOF PROCUBRMENT
A-INITIATE FREFARATION SF pBEouALlIECaTIoN DOCUMENTS                      I INITIATE PBEPllATaTIDUOT ECDPaID DO S1. DI rD DOCUMENTS          ID CONDTBUDTON 7rCOPT TB -ICbNTERNATIDNAL|
B-rRANsMlTDOOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA TO IDA                                  S IDA CLEARANCE CF SpECIFICaTION AND bID OOCUME NTS                 1I ICONSTBRUCTION TSNCDMPLETE        LCb-LOCAL COMPETITIVE                                                - F
C-IDA CLEARANCE OF DOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA                                 4 BOSUE INVITATION TO bID                                          ID COF ETRUCTION IOENDBBPCOETE            b IDDING                                                         B
E - RECEIP B COFNTRAcToR FFEDUALIFICATION DATA                           B rRANsMIT EVADLATIDS DEPORT AND AWARDB RECDMMENDATIDNB TO IDA                                             FAFREACDN 
F_rRANsMlr EVALUATION REFDRT AND RECOMMENDATIONS TD IDA                   T IDA CLEABANCE OP RECOMMENDATIONS                                                                                                                                           t
S-IDA CLEARANCE oP RECDMMENDATIONS                                        B AWARD CONTRACT
/a Costs asD of March, 1982.
lb PS includes purchases made against rate contract of Ditector Genetal Supplies and Disposal, GOI.
/c Costs for cement and coal are included in civil works costs, Table lOa.



WATERCOURSE MODERNIZATION
CHANTRY        INDIA                                           PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT  & MATERIALS                                                                   HARYANA  IRRIGATION  II PROJECT
METHOD                                    IT l982                           19 83                             19   84                          IS 85                                86                              9 87
C-DA CLeRINePTIONHFHDETS A      PEOCARIA   COS                           4 E sE  9   INVTTO TD-  s  E                                            XCOSRSCu.AovCMPEEslDN
F-RNMT vLAlo RePOR                                                                                                                                                                                  IC eOMNAIN  OIAeTASI    LArO  EO   N  WR  eDMN)TDST D   
Vehiclles,  Jeeps  (96) g v                  5.3 l    EfE a
Compaction  Equipments.
(135), and Miscellaneous   L,CB/ c   1.6    IIE-JOP
Trucks  (60)                       PS  -b   7.0          0C -                                            
_ _                                                                                                                                                                                m    W                    U    t4
PEEAAIPCDIH  HCINS                                             OTUHHET CTON                                                                                                  HEHT A PTC9EE.
A-NTAE HPHTIND  H,ALTCAINDTAET                                    1STA9 9PHTII T9CCFCTONAAECCLCY                                       SCNCAC~NNCA-E9IC-NSNA  OA 
AN DAADINCICTA                                               TAS,TTECFCAICNAN  IcDCUENSCC IAI CNTOCTO. HCHTCT LJETTAEBDDN
5-IDA CLEDHANCE HP TECDMETENOATIHNS                    H ADSHD~~~~IINT-TACT-I-I
1A ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-82-
Table 11
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Implementation
(Rs M and Physical Targets)
Component                         1983/84       1984/85       1985/86        1986/87        Total
Canal Modernization
Base Cost                             223.47        220.27         220.27        220.27       884.28
Physical Contingencies                 11.01L         11.01         11.01         11.01        44.04
Price Contingencies                    30.11          49.90         70.26         89.81       240.08
Total cost                        264.59        281.18        301.54         321.09    1,168.40
Physical Targets (M ft )               57.5           60.0          65.0          67.5        250.0
Watercourse Modernization
Base Cost                             164.12         162.02        162.02        162.02       650.18
Physical Contingencies                 13.13          12.96         12.96         12.96        52.01
Price Contingencies                    22.75          37.75         53.16         67.95       181.61
Total Cost                        200.00        212.73        228.14         242.93       883.80
Physical Targets (M Rft)                5.3            5.5           6.0           6.2          23.0
Augmentation Tubewells
Base Cost                              35.80          35.59         35.47         35.47       142.33
Physical Contingencies                  1.79           1.78          1.77          1.77          7.11
Price Contingencies                     4.82           8.06         11.32         14.46        38.66
Total Cost                         42.4l1        45.43          48.56         51.70       188.10
Physical Targets (Wells)                72             78            84            91          325
Sprinkler Irrigation
Base Cost                               2.32           6.95          6.95          6.95        23.17
Physical Contingencies                  0.35           1.04          1.04          1.04         3.47
Price Contingencies                     0.34           1.72          2.43          3.10         7.59
Total Cost                          3.01          9.71          10.42         11.09        34.23
Physical Targets (Sets)                   10            30           30            30            100
Village Water Supply
Base Cost                              50.31          58.96         68.80         29.47       207.54
Physical Contingencies                  6.04           7.08          8.25          3.53        24.90
Price Contingencies                     7.23          14.24         23.42         12.82        57.71
Total Cost                         63.58         80.28         100.47         45.82       290.15
Physical Targets (Schemes)              26             34            41            19            120
Village Access Roads
Base Cost                               8.15          15.55         15.03          9.30        48.03
Physical Contingencies                    .76          1.50          1.50            .93        4.69
Price Contingencies                      1.15          3.68          5.03          3.98         13.84
Total Cost                         10.06         20.73          21.56         14.21        66.56
Physical Targets (Km)                   29.4           60.8          64.7          41.1        196.0
R&D and Training
Base Cost                               9.95          21.97         17.97          4.46         54.35
Physical Contingencies                  0.25           1.76          0.90          0.25          3.16
Price Contingencies                     1.31           5.12          5.73          1.82         13.98
Total Cost                         11.51         28.85          24.60          6.53        71.49
Total Project
Base Cost                             494.12         521.31        526.51        467.94    2,009.88
Physical Contingencies                 33.33          37.13         37.43         31.49       139.38
Price Contingencies                    67.71         120.47        171.35        193.94       553.47
TOTAL PROJECT COST                595.16        678.91         735.29        693.37    2,702.73



-83-
Table 12
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule 1/
IDA Fiscal Year                        During
and Semester                          Semester                 Cumulative
-----------(US$ M)----------------
1983
2nd                                   5.0                      5.0
1984
1st                                  15.0                     20.0
2nd                                  15.0                     35.0
1985
1st                                  23.0                     58.0
2nd                                  24.0                     82.0
1986
1st                                  24.0                    106.0
2nd                                  24.0                    130.0
1987
1st                                  11.0                    141.0
2nd                                   9.0                    150.0
1/ Not based on country or sector disbursement profile because on
major components Haryana II would maintain approximately the
same rate of expenditures achieved in Haryana I, with minor
adjustments for transition, the GOH April-March fiscal year,
lag time in disbursements, and new components.



Table 13
-34-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Allocation of the Credit
Category                             US$M      Disbursement Percentages
1. Civil Works
(a)  Canal Modernization                63.7      70% of expenditures
(b)  Watercourse Modernization &        50.4     70% of expenditures
Augmentation Tubewells
(c)  Other Civil Works                  18.6      70% of expenditures
2.  Equipment, Goods, Materials and          8.2      100% of foreign or ex-
Vehicles                                          factory expenditures, or
70% of local expenditures
3.  Research and Development,                4.3      100% of expenditures
Training, Technical Services
and Monitoring and Evaluation
Studies
4.  Unallocated                              4.8
TOTAL             $150.0



-35-                                  Table 14
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Present Irrigated Area and Estimated Water Deliveries
Estimated a/
Area ('000 ha)       Water Deliveries            Total
Crops           Bhakra    WYC    Both         per ha           Water Deliveries
-      ('000 ha)-----         m 3            Bhakra    WYC       Both
Kharif
Paddy, HYV           69      73      142         7,906           545     578    1,123
Paddy, Loc.          13      22       35        7,906           103      174       277
Bajra, HYV           59      84      143           518            31      43        74
Pulses                6       7       13           518             3       4         7
Maize                 5       2        7         1,708             9       3        12
Cotton, Amer.       170      48      218        3,080           523      148       671
Cotton, Loc.         90      28      118         1,106           100      31       131
Fodder               36      18       54         1,708           61       31        92
Sub-total        448     282      730                      1,375   1,012    2,387
Rabi
Wheat, HYV          282     263      545         2,170           612     571    1,183
Wheat, Loc.          33      16       49         2,170            72      34       106
Gram                 89      38      127         1,245           111      47       158
Mustard              86      16      102           755            65      12        77
Barley               28      13       41        2,170             61      28        89
Sugarcane b/         40      43       83        2,293            98       92       190
Fodder               23      22       45         2,274            52      50       102
Sub-total        581     411      922                      1,071      834    1,905
Total             1,029     693   1,722                       2,446   1,846    4,292
a/ Deliveries to the crop, estimated as 3follows.  A standard 1 cfs water-
course outlet discharges about 100 m of water per running
hour. Also, based on the standard design duty in Haryana of 1 cfs/
168 ha, and the 7-day (168 hour) warabandi rotation schedule, sach
farmer would receive one hour of water flow per week, or 100 m ,
for every hectare owned. Using an efficiency sf 70% between the outlet
and the plant, actual deliveries would be 70 m /ha during each
weekly warabandi rotation. Water deliveries for each crop are estimated
from this using crop pattern data for a "typical" hectare, and reported
data on the number of irrigations applied.
b/ Only about one-third of the water applied is supplied by canal.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Changes in Irrigated Area, Haryana I and II
Canal Modernization            Watercourse Modernization              Augmention Tubevells                      Total
Bhakra    West Yamuna             Bhakra    West Yamuna               Bhakra    West Yamuna              Bhakra    West Yamuna
kh   ra      kh     ra   Total   kh   ra        kh      ra   Total   kh   ra       kh      ra   Total   kh   ra       kh      ra   Total
1. Potential Net CCA            764            933      1,697      360            146        506      38             10          48      1,166         1,085      2,251
(000 ha) a/
2. Actual Area Irrigated
(000 ha)
(a) Before Haryana I    260   306    224    327  1,117  122   148           35      51   356      -     -      -        -      -    382  454    259    378  1,473
(b) After Haryana I b/  313   367    240    345  1,265  132   173           41      64   410      3    39      1        5    48    448  579    282    414  1,723
(c) After Haryana II c/ 366   428    256    363  1,413  146   194           44      67   451    18    62       5       11    96    530  684    305    441  1,960
3. Increase in d/
Irrigated Area (000 ha)
(d) During Haryana I       53    61      16      18   148    10    25        6      13    54      3    39      :        5    48      66  125       23     36    250
(b)-(a)                                                                (6)    (8)  (14)                                                                   (14)
(e) During Haryana II    53    61        16      18   148    14    21        3       3    41    15    23       4        6    48      82  105       23     27    237
(c)-(b)                                                                (3)    (5)   (8)                                                      (3)    (5)   (8)
4. Irrigation
Intensity (%)
(f) Before Haryana I       34    41      24      35           34    41      24      35            -    -       -        -           33    39       24     35
(g) After Haryana I        41    48      26      37           37    48      28      44            8   100    10        50           38    50       26     38
(h) After Haryana II       48    56      27      39           41    54      30      46           39    61    40        60           45    59      28      41
(i) Difference
(g)-(f)                7     7       2      2             3     7       4       9            8   100    10        50            5    11       2       3
(h)-(g)               7      8       1      2            4    *6        2       2          31    39    30         10            7     9       2       3
5. Increase in Irrigation
Intensity as Against
Net CCA (%)                                                                                                                        7.0   9.0   2.4    3.0   10.5
a/  Potential area irrigable provided that sufficient water would be available.
b/  Present situation.
c/  Projected:  after completion of the project.                                                                                                                           a
d/  Figures in parenthesis indicate the lift command areas.
kh - kharif
ra - rabi



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Area Changes
Z of Net CCA                                Area (000 ha)
Without Project    With Project         Without Project           With Project           Incremental Area (000 ha)
Bhakra      WYC    Bhakra   WYC    Bhakra   WYC   Both         Bhakra   WYC   Both             (With)-(Without)
Kharif
Paddy, HYV                     5.9        6.8      7.8    8.8         69     73    142          91     95    186                  44
Paddy, Loc.                    1.1        2.0       1.1    1.1        13     22      35         13     12      25                -10
Bajra, HYV                     5.1        7.7      5.1    7.7         59      84    143         59     84    143                   0
Pulses                         0.5        0.6       1.0    1.1         6       7     13         12     13      25                 12
Maize                          0.4        0.2       2.0    0.6         5       2      7         23      7      30                 23
Cotton, Amer.                 14.2        4.4     18.2    4.4        170     48    218         218     45    263                  45
Cotton, Loc.                   7.7        2.6      6.7    2.6         90     28    118          78     31    109                  -9
Fodder                         3.1        1.7      3.1    1.7         36      18     54         36     18      54                   0
Rainfed                       33.0       47.0     33.0   47.0        385    510    895         385    510    895                    0
Fallow                        29.0       27.0     22.0   25.0        338    293    631         257    269    526                -105
Irrigated                  38.0      26.0      45.0   28.0        448    282    730        530    305    835                  105
Irrigated & Rainfed        71.0      73.0      78.0   75.0       833    792  1,625         915    815  1,730
Rabi                                                                                                                                                                  co
Wheat, HYV                    24.4       24.3     32.0   28.3        282    263    545         373    307    680                  135
Wheat, Loc.                    2.8        1.5       2.8    1.5        33      16     49         33      16     49                   0
Gram                           7.6        3.5      7.6    2.5         89     38    127          89     27    116                 -11
Mustard                        7.4        1.5       8.8    1.5        86      16    102        102      16    118                  16
Barley                         2.4        1.2       2.4    1.2        28      13     41         28     13      41                  0
Sugarcane                      3.4        4.0      3.4    4.0         40     43      83         40     43      83                  0
Fodder                         2.0        2.0      2.0    2.0         23      22     45         23     22      45                   0
Rainfed                       17.0       26.0     13.0   26.0        198    282    480         152    282    434                 -46
Fallow                        33.0       36.0     28.0   33.0        385    391    776         324    358    682                  94
Irrigated                  50.0      38.0      59.0   41.0        581    411    992        688    444  1,132                  140
Irrigated & Rainfed        67.0      64.0      72.0   67.0       779    693  1,472         840    726  1,566
Kharif & Rabi Irrigated                                                                                                            245
Reduction of Rainfed Area                                                                                                            46
Reduction of Fallow                                                                                                                 199



Table 17
-88-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Production and Value
Area
Without    With
Crops                  Project  Project  Incremental    Yield    Production    Value
---'000 ha-----------    t/ha                  '000 ton      Rs M
Kharif
Irrigated
Paddy, HYV              142       186          44            3.5         154        326.8
Paddy, Loc.              35        25         -10           2.8          -28        -54.3
Bajra, HYV              143       143           0           0.9            0          0.0
Pulses                   13        25          12           0.7            8          9.1
Maize                     7        30          23            1.0          23          3.7
Cotton, Amer.           218       263          45            1.2          54        107.7
Cotton, Loc.            118       109         - 9            0.8         - 7        - 5.6
Fodder                   54        54           0          32.0            0          0.0
Sub-total            730      835          105                                   387.4
Rainfed
Bajra, HYV              127       127           0           0.6            0          0
Bajra, Loc.             540       540           0           0.4            0          0
Pulses                   16        16           0            0.5           0          0
Maize                    43        43           0            0.8           0           0
Fodder                  169       169           0           26.0           0           0
Sub-total            895      895            0
Rabi
Irrigated
Wheat, HYV              545       680         135            2.3         311        608.9
Wheat, Loc.              49        49           0            1.8           0          0.0
Gram                    127       116         -11            0.9         -10        -16.6
Mustard                 102       118           16           0.7          11         16.6
Barley                   41        41           0            1.2           0          0.0
Sugarcane                83        83           0          40.0            0          0.0
Fodder                   45        45           0          46.0            0          0.0
Sub-total            992    1,132          140                                   608.9
Rainfed
Wheat, Loc.              43        43           0            1.1           0          0.0
Gram                    286       252         -34            0.6         -20        -17.5
Mustard                  99        87         -12            0.4         - 5        - 2.0
Barley                   52        52           0            0.9           0          0.0
Sub-total            480       480         -46                                   -19.5
Total                                                                                   976.8
Irrigated Area          1,722    1,967          245
Rainfed Area            1,375    1,329          -46
Fallow Area                                    -199



-89-
Table 18
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary of Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
(Rs/ton)
Economic Prices             Financial Prices
1982    1985/90             1982      1985/90
Crops
Paddy - HYV                   1,310      1,880            1,310        1,800
Paddy - Local                 1,400      1,000            1,400        1,850
Wheat                         1,400      1,680            1,380         1,500
Maize                         1,100      1,240            1,120         1,250
Bajra                         1,470      1,650            1,480         1,650
Pulses                        2,900      3,480            2,900        3,480
Cotton, American              4,200      4,500            4,000        4,240
Cotton, Desi                  3,780      3,860            3,200        3,300
Fodder (Sorghum)                 70         80                70           70
Gram                          2,900      3,260            2,900        3,480
Mustard                       3,950      5,790            3,380        4,200
Barley                        1,140      1,170            1,100        1,170
Fodder (Berseem)                 80         90                80           80
Sugarcane                       160        240              200          240
Inputs
Urea (Rs/kg)                    4.1        4.6               4.6         5.4
TSP (Rs/kg)                     3.6        3.8              4.3          5.0
Potasium Chloride (Rs/kg)       2.0        2.0               2.1         2.1
Farmyard Manure (Rs/t)         19.0       19.0             24.0        24.0
Wage Rates (Per Day)
Farm Labor                       8          8                10           10
Bullock Pair                    16         16               20            20



INDIA
HIARYANA IRRIGATION I l'PROJECT
F-inancial Crop Badgets
(Rupees per ha)
Gross                                                      Farmyard  Agro-                              Water         Total          Net
Crop Name           Maini Product  8vProduct   Value    I aor   Bullock              N         P        K      Mtanure    chemnical   Seeds   Interest  CI)arg s   1n2nt Cost    Return
Kharif Irrigated
Paddy - HYV                    4,585           280         4,865    1,187.5    480         345       129      63          144        180       70.5       76.2       74.1        2,749.3       2,15.7
Paddy - Local                  3,750           448         4,198    1,130.5      440       161        86      42           72        100     100.0        54         74.1        2,259.6       1,938.4
Bajra - HYV                    1,332           216         1,548       522.5    320         92        43      10.5          0        100      37.5        32.6      49.4         1,207.5          340.5
Pulses                         2,030            90         2,120      437.0    240            0       86      10.5          0         40     100.0        25.7      49.4            988.6      1,131.4
Maize                          1,300           160         1,460       551.(     240        138       64.5   10.5          72         80      56.0        35.7      49.4         1,297.1          162.9
Cotton, American               4,320              0        4,320       998.0    440        2(17       86       0          144        250      65.0        68.7      61.8         2,325.5       1,994.4
Cotton, Local                  2,400              0        2.400       712.5    380        115        43       0           96        100      48.8        45.0      61.8         1,602.1          797.9
Fodder (Sorghumi)              2,240              0        2,240       551.0    480           0        0       0            0          0    150.0        150.0      56.8         1,271.8         968.2
Kharir Rainfed I
Bajra - HYV                      888           144         1.032      475.0    260          69        21.5    0             0         60      37.5        24.2        0             947.2          84.8
Bajra - Local                    592            96           688      437.0    220           0         0       0            0          0        7.5       12.3        0            676.8          1I.2
Pulses                         1,450            60         1,510      437.0    240           0         0       0            0         40     100.0        20.5        0            837.5         672.5                a
Mlaize                         1,040            128        1,168       494.0    240          92       43       0           48         80       56.0       30.2        0          1,083.2           84.8
Fodder (Sorghum)               1,670           150         1,820      503.5    400           0         0       0            0          0     150.0        29.7       0           1,083.2         736.8
Rabi Irrigated
Wheat - HYV                    3,450           690         4,140       741.0    440        299       107.5   z1            96         75    270.0         70.7       61.8        2,182.0       1,958.0
Wheat - Local            ,    2,700            540         3,240       703.0    400         161       43       0           72         50    300.0         55.4      61.8         1,846.2       1,393.8
Gram                           2,610            90         2,700      427.5    240           0        86       0            0         50     160.0        28.9      49.4         1,041.8       1,658.2
Mustard                        2,730             0         2.730      598.5    360           92        0       0            0         40      32.5        28.3      66.7         1,219.0       1,511.0
Barley                         1.380           192         1,572      665.0    360         115        43       0            0          0     150.0        36.1      66.7         1,435.8         136.2
Fodder (Berseem)               3,680             0         3,680    7,042.5      600        46        86       0           0           0     300.0        55.7      56.8         3,187.0         493.0
Rabi Rainfed -/
Wqheat - L.ocal                1.650           330         1,980      646        360        92         0       0            0          0    160.0         33.1        0          1,291.1         688.9
(Cram                          1.740            60         1,800      437        240         0        43       0            0         20     160.0        25.0       0             925.0         875.0
Mustard                        1,352             1)        1,352      475        360        69         0       0           0           0      32.5        24.9       0             96).4         390.6             'a
Barle)                         1,035           144         1, 179     437        240        92        ()       0           0           0     150.0        34.8       0             953.8           81.2             5
Perennial Irrigated
Sugarcease                     6,400             0         6,400    1.900        760       345       129      21         240         180  1,875.0        191.7      98.8         4,053.0       2,374.0
I/   Uinder subs istance, ra infed agr icul tnre, famils I arm  liabor mst be under-c'a lued
compared to market rates for the farm  anir to1 be considered ecd,nomical ly
viable.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
Farm Yard          Fertilizers             Agro-
Crops                   Yield      By-Product      Seed         Manure          N       P       K      Chemicals       Labor    Bullocks
t/ha        t/ha         kg/ha          t/ha        --       kg/h ------        Rs/ha        md/ha        pd/ha
IRRIGATED
Kharif
Paddy, HYV                  3.5         3.5             30          6            75      30       30        180          125          24
Paddy, Loc.                 2.8         5.6             50          3            35      20       20        100          119          22
Bajra, HYV                  0.9          2.7             5          0            20       10       5        100           55          16
Pulses                      0.7         0.9             25          0             0      20        5         40           46          12
Maize                       1.0          2.0            20           3           30       15       5          80          58          12
Cotton, Amer.               1.2         0.0             20          6            45      20        0        250          105          22
Cotton, Loc.                0.8         0.0             15          4            25       10       0        100           75          19
Fodder-Sorglhum           32.0          0.0             50          0             0        0       0          0           58          24
Rabi
Wheat, HYV                  2.3          4.6           100           4           65       25      10          75          78          22
Wheat, Loc.                 1.8         3.6            100           3           35       10       0         50           74          20
Gram                        0.9         0.9             40          0             0      20        0         50           45          12
Mustard                     0.7          0.0             5          0            20        0       0         40           63          18
Barley                      1.2          2.4            75          0            25       10       0           0          70          18
Fodder (Berseem)          46.0          0.0             25          0            10      20        0          0          215          30
Sugarcane                 40.0          0.0         7,500          10            75      30       10        180          200          38
UN-IRRIGATED
Kharif
Bajra, HYV                  0.6          1.8             5          0            15        5       0         60           50          13
Bajra, Loc.                 0.4          1.2             5          0             0        0       0          0           46          11
Pulses                      0.5         0.6             25          0             0        0       0         40           46          12
Maize                       0.8          1.6            20           2           20       10       0         80           52          12
Fodder                    26.0          0.0             50          0             0        0       0           0          53          20
Rabi
Wheat, Loc.                 1.1         2.2            100           0           20        0       0           0          68          18
Gram                        0.6         0.6            40           0             0      10        0         20           46          12
Mustard                     0.4         0.0              5           0            15       0       0           0          50          18
Barley                     0.9          1.8             75          0            20      10        0          0           66          i3



-92-
Table 21
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Revenues and Expenditures for
Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal Systems
(Rupees Millions)
Bhakra                              Western Yamuna
Year      Receipts    Expenses    Net                 Receipts    Expenses        Net
1970/71    32.2          15.6      +16.6                21.5         15.3      + 6.1
1971/72    29.5          15.9      +13.6                21.8         17.2      + 4.6
1972/73    33.3          16.7      +16.6                24.3         18.7      + 5.6
1973/74    32.5          19.1      +13.4                23.7         30.4      - 6.7
1974/75    22.9          26.2      - 3.3                26.2         57.2      -31.0
1975/76    46.7          27.5      +19.2                37.2         65.9      -28.7
1976/77    63.9          32.0      +31.9                43.8         61.0      -17.2
1977/78    53.1          30.8      +22.3                34.1         56.8      -22.7
1978/79    54.4          34.0      +20.4                38.7         55.7      -17.0
1979/80    47.4          40.2      + 7.2                30.0         67.3      -37.3



-93-
Table 22
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Farm Income /a
(Rs/ha)
Gross      Hired      Other       Total    Net Ic
Value      Labor      Costs       Costs    Value
Canal Modernization
and ATWs                       5,169        235       1,769      1,851    3,318
Watercourse
Modernization                  5,207        237       2,165      2,402    2,805
/a   Per incremental irrigated hectare, calculated on the basis of
cash (not imputed) costs and revenues, at the farmgate.
/b   Includes water charge and differential land tax on irrigated
CCA, market fee/tax, and also watercourse repayment and O&M
for watercourse CCA.
/c   Net return to family labor and farm investment.



-94-                          Table 23
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Farm Income and Project Rent
at Full Development /a
Canal Modernization      Watercourse
and ATWs            Modernization
Farm Budgets
Gross Value of Production                          5,169                  5,207
Costs
Total Labor Costs                               1,420                   1,432
Other Inputs                                    1,616                   1,588
Land tax/Water Charge                               51                     51
Agricultural Market Fee/Tax                        102                    102
Watercourse O&M /b                                  -                      62
Watercourse Repayment /b                            -                     362
Total Costs                                  3,189                  3,597
Net Value of Production                            1,980                  1,610
Reward to Family Labor                             1,185                  1,610
Net Farm Income                                    3,165                  2,805
Per Capita Income /c
Project Rent
Net Return to Farm                                 1,980                  1,610
+ Land Tax/Water Charges/Markeit Tax                153                    153
Net Return before Taxes                            2,133                  1,763
- Management Fee/Risk Equivalenzt                   718                    718
Project Rent                                1,415                   1,045
/a   Per incremental irrigated hectare, during period of watercourse
repayment (9 years); values are current, not discounted.
/b   Based on investment costs of Rs 1,387/ha and an average irrigation
intensity of 68%.
/c   Assumes average farm family size of six members.



-95-                               Table 24
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery /a
(Rs/ha)
Canal Modern. Watercourse
and ATWs    Modernization
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production                          38,604          38,895
Production Cost lb                                 23,058          23,250
Net Cash Income                                    15,546          15,645
Less - Management Fee/Risk Equivalent             5,360           5,360
Project Rent                                       10,186          10=8
Project Rent as a % of Net Cash Income                 65%              66%
Cost Recovery
Direct
Water Charge /c                                     665             670
Differential Land Revenue Charges /d                 82              -
Watercourse O&M                                      -              230
Watercourse Repayment                                -              404
Indirect
Agricultural  Marketing Fee /e                      750              760
Total Cost Recovery                                 1,497           2,064
Rent Recovery as a % of Project Rent                   15%              20%
Costs
Capital Costs                                     1,404           3,654
Operation & Maintenance Cost
(per ha of CCA)/f                                306             230
Total Public Sector Outlays                       1,710           3,884
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Cost                    88%             53%
/a   Expressed in incremental values discounted over 20 years at
12% in constant 1982 prices.
/b   Includes cost of labor and depreciation of capital.
/c   Based on actual water charge revenues of Rs 46/ha for Bhakra and
Rs 34/ha for WYC (average revenues, net CCA basis).
/d   Based on differential land revenue collections for irrigated and
unirrigated agricultural land of Rs 11/ha for Bhakra and Rs 10/ha
for WYC.
/e   Calculated on the basis of the 65% of the agricultural marketing
fee (3%) which goes to the State treasury, over and above market
facility costs.
/f   Based on actual 1979/80 reported O&M expenditures of Rs 34/ha for
Bhakra and Rs 55/ha for WYC, on a net CCA basis.
Note: Footnotes (c), (d) and (f) based on "Techno-Economic Study of the
Recovery of Water Related Charges in the World Bank Assisted Haryana
Irrigation Project", National Council of Applied Economic Research
(NCAER), May 1982, p.68.



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Total Project
Net Benefits                                                     Investment Costs                                         0&M Costs                   Net
Canal         Watercourse    Augmentation         Sprinkler         Village                Village              R&D and             Village             Village       Incremental
Year          Modernization   Modernization    Tubewells             Irrigation      Water Supply           Access Roads           Training          Water Supply       Access Roads       Benefits
1            -180.90            -133.8             -31.40            -26.10             42.02                  6.27                40.70                -                   -             -461.19
2            -123.70            -116.9             -19.0              10.60             49.24                 12.39                 6.00              0.84               0.13             -317.60
3.            -53.00             -93.0                 -              17.60             57.48                 12.39                 6.00              1.83               0.37             -206.47
4.             33.20             -66.3              21.50              19.20            24.64                  7.68                 1.70              2.98               0.62              -30.02
5             309.80              97.4              46.00             20.80                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78              469.73
6             341.50             108.3              56.00             22.40                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78               523.93
7             368.70             114.4              56.00             24.00                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78              588.83
8-11          368.70             114.4               59.80            24.00                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78               562.63
12-15          368.70              114.4              58.70             24.00               -                    -                     -                3.50               0.78              561.53
16             368.70             114.4              61.60             24.00                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78               564.43
17             368.70             114.4              60.60             24.00                -                    -                    -                3.50               0.78               563.43
18-20          368.70             114.4              61.60              24.00               -                    -                    -                 3.50               0.78              564.43



Table 25b
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Canal Modernization
Incremental        Investment          O&M       Net Incremental
Year              Benefits            Costs             Costs         Benefits
----------------Rs. M----------------
1                   -                180.9               -             -180.9
2                  62.6              180.9              5.4            -123.7
3                 138.8              180.9             10.9             -53.0
4                 230.4              180.9             16.3              33.2
5                 331.5                -               21.7             309.8
6                 363.2                                21.7             341.5
7-20              390.4                                21.7             368.7
Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case:                1RR = 42.3%        NPV  @ 12% = 1310.1
Benefits delayed 1 year:  1RR = 32.0%                      1062.1
Appraisal         Switching           Percent
Variable Tested               Estimate            Value              Change
Incremental Benefits            1978.1             668.0              -66.2
Investment Costs                 549.4            1859.5             +238.5
A delay in benefits of 7 years would cause the NPV to equal 0.



Table 25c
INI)IA
HARYANA IRRIGK.CION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Watercourse Modernization
Incremental       Investment           O&M     Net Incremental
Year             Benefits           Costs            Costs         Benefits
---------------------------Rs M----------------------------
1                   -              133.8              -             -133.8
2                 20.9             133.8             4.0            -116.9
3                 48.8             133.8             8.0             -93.0
4                 79.6              133.8           12.1             -66.3
5                113.6                -             16.2              97.4
6                124.5                              16.2             108.3
7-20             130.6                              16.2             114.4
Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case:                      IRR = 18.4%   NPV @ 12% = 173.3
Benefits delayed 1 year:        IRR = 15.0%   NPV @ 12% =  89.6
Appraisal        Switching         Percent
Variable Tested                Estimate            Value           Change
Incremental Benefits             668.1              494.8            -25.9
Investment Costs                 406.4              579.7            +42.6
A delay in benefits of 3 years would cause the NPV to equal 0.



-99-
Table 25d
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Augmentation Tubewells
Incremental         Investment             O&M     Net Incremental
Year           Benefits              Costs               Costs       Benefits
-----------------           -     Rs. M---------------
1                   -                 31.4                 -           -31.4
2                 19.5                31.4                7.1          -19.0
3                 45.5                31.4               14.1             -
4                 74.1                31.4               21.2           21.5
5                105.7                31.4               28.3           46.0
6                115.7                31.4               28.3           56.0
7                121.3                31.4               28.3           56.0
8                121.3                33.2               28.3           59.8
9                121.3                33.2               28.3           59.8
10                121.3                33.2               28.3           59.8
11                121.3                33.2               28.3           59.8
12                121.3                34.3               28.3           58.7
13                121.3                34.3               28.3           58.7
14                121.3                34.3               28.3           58.7
15                121.3                34.3               28.3            58.7
16                121.3                31.4               28.3           61.6
17                121.3                32.4               28.3            60.6
18                121.3                31.4               28.3           61.6
19                121.3                31.4               28.3           61.6
20                121.3                31.4               28.3            61.6
Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case:                 lRR = 46.5               NPV at 12% = 227.2
Benefits delayed 1 year:  IRR = 30.0                NPV at 12% = 178.1
Appraisal              Switching       Percent
Variable Tested                  Estimate                 Value          Change
Incremental Benefits               621.0                  393.8          -36.6
Investment Costs                   239.4                  466.6          +94.9
A delay in benefits of 3 years would cause the NPV to equal 0.



-100-
Table 25e
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Sprinkler Irrigation
Incremental          Investment           O&M        Net Incremental
Year           Benefits              Costs              Costs          Benefits
------------------------------Rs. M---
1                   -                 22.7               3.4           -26.1
2                 14.0                  -                3.4            10.6
3                 21.0                  -                3.4            17.6
4                 22.6                  -                3.4            19.2
5                 24.2                  -                3.4            20.8
6                 25.8                  -                3.4            22.4
7-20              27.4                  -                3.4            24.0
Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case:                1RR = 62%                    NPV @ 12% = 127.5
Benefits delayed 1 year:  1RR = 43%                    NPV @ 12% = 107.9
Appraisal           Switching         Percent
Variable Tested               Estimate              Value            Change
Incremental Benefits            175.1               47.6               -72.8
Investment Costs                 20.2              147.8               629.5
A delay in benefits of 8 years would cause the NPV to equal 0.



Annex 1
-101-                           Page 1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed Research and Development Studies and Experiments
1.      Various studies and experiments in support of project objectives
and activities would be included in the RDTU work program, in addition to
the specific canal regulation and water charges pilot projects and the
groundwater and salinity study. In most cases, implementation of all or
part of these studies and experiments would be handed over to outside
agencies such as consultants and/or Haryana Agriculture University. The
R&D and Training Unit (RDTU) in the Irrigation Department would be respon-
sible to plan, coordinate, fix objectives, prepare terms of reference,
monitor and supervise progress, and insure results are practical and
useful and meet the requirements specified. In general, topics to be
considered for study and experiment under the R&D component of the project
would have direct and immediate relevance to canal modernization objec-
tives and may include the following.
Dynamic Regulation
2.      A study would analyze the feasibility and potential benefits of
applying dynamic canal regulation technology to Haryana canal systems, and
specific requirements and modifications in designs which should be incor-
porated into ongoing modernization programs to facilitate application of
dynamic regulation. Dynamic regulation uses electronic telemetry and
computer control to continuously monitor and adjust water flows to meet
changing conditions throughout a canal system, and would greatly increase
the potential for both improved irrigation service and more efficient
management in Haryana canal systems.
Micro-hydro Power Generation Experiments
3.      Experimental installation of micro-hydro power generating equip-
ment in irrigation canals would be undertaken to test the feasibility of
irrigation canals as a source of electric power. India is chronically
power-short, and the irrigation canal networks are theoretically a poten-
tial source of a substantial amount of energy. With a 3 m head a 250 cfs
flow, for example, would generate about 2,000 kW at total extraction.
Estimated power potential in Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canals totals some
50-60 MW. In addition, interruptions in grid power supplies are frequent;
a reliable, "captive" source of power for operating major canal control
structures is essential, if mechanization of water regulation and instal-
lation of electronic, computerized control systems and telemetry for
dynamic regulation are to succeed. Micro-hydro units in canals could also
be used to power augmentation tubewells, thereby reducing outside energy
requirements and costs for conjunctive use of groundwater in the gravity
canal network. Sites would be chosen and micro-hydro equipment installed



-10 2-
Annex 1
Page 2
to test and demonstrate both large (say 500 kW) and small (about 50-100
kW) units under various low-head conditions. Low-head micro-hydro equip-
ment is available internationally for about US$700 per kW.
Special Purpose Lining Systems
4.      Experimental installation and monitoring of alternative lining
systems and materials would test their potential use under special condi-
tions; for example, special, high-strength plastic composite materials
which are impermeable, remain flexible and can be installed in a flowing
canal (or rapidly during very short closures) would be tried for possible
application on canals which are rarely closed or closed only for short
periods. In addition to the actual lining works, specialized expert
assistance for measuring seepage losses saved by the lining on an
experimental scale and for design and installation of the lining membrane
would be provided.
Canal System Management
5.      A systems analysis study would analyze alternative management
procedures for Haryana canal systems in support of efforts under the
project to improve canal system operational efficiency, reliability and
flexibility. Research would include analysis of various operational modes
and procedures for the canal networks in Haryana, including development if
necessary of computer models for E[aryana canal systems and the
Bhakra-Nangal complex to simulate the impact of various operational modes
and design alternatives aimed at improving the efficiency of irrigation
system performance and management.
Farmer Organization
6.      A study would be designed to develop an optimum approach for
increasing farmer involvement and participation under canal irrigation in
Haryana through development of farmer Water User Associations (WUAs).
This effort would be in support of sprinkler irrigation and pilot project
components, and would include organizatinal, structural and legal require-
ments (such as model enabling legislation for WUAs) for effective farmer
organization development. It would also provide analysis of alternative
approches and institutional arrangements based on experience in India and
in selected other countries which have had success in developing effective
farmer organizations.



-103-
Annex 1
Page 3
Other Studies and Experiments
7.      Other topics for studies and experiments which would be organized
and supported under the project through RDTU include: management and
organizational analysis and manpower needs in the Irrigation Department
based on projected operational requirements and performance objectives;
command area capacity factors used for canal operations, and actual
recorded water deliveries compared to estimated crop water use during the
season for actual and optimum cropping patterns under alternative water
delivery patterns; actual field application efficiencies under current
canal system operational practices at various stages in crop growth
including land preparation; optimum use of groundwater conjunctively with
canal operations; economics and water use efficiencies for canal and
tubewell irrigated farms and the value of flexibility in irrigation
deliveries; technical alternatives for improving watercourses, such as
level top canals, buried low pressure pipelines, composite plastic lining
materials, use of channel lining molding machines, etc.; alternative
conveyance designs and control systems for linking ATWs with the main
canal network; optimum discharge for lined watercourses under Haryana
conditions; computerized water scheduling programs for Haryana canal
systems; and project preparation for proposed irrigation/flood control and
drainage projects.



-L04-                        Arnex 2
page 1
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project Files
1. Haryana Irrigation Project - Phase II, Project Preparation Cell,
Central Water Commission, GOI, March, 1982.
(a)  Volume I -  Brief Particulars of Project Components.
(b) Volume II - Modernization of Existing Channels
(c) Volume III - (1) Modernization of Watercourses in Gravity
Areas; (2) Modernization of Watercourses in Lift Command Areas;
(3) Land Levelling in Jui and Sewani Commands.
(d)  Volume IV - (1) Augmentation Tubewells; (2) Electrification of
Augmentation Tubewells.
(e)  Volume V - Village Link Roads and Widening and Strengthening
of Main Roads.
(f) Volume VI - Rural Water Supply.
(g) Volume VII - Installation of 750 Sprinkler Sets.
(h)  Volume VIII - Research and Development.
2. The Haryana Canal & Drainage Act, 1974 (As amended by Act 30 of
1980), with Haryana Canal & Drainage Rules, 1976, by T.S. Doabia,
Jain Book Agency, 1982.
3. "Present & Proposed Practices for Charging Water Rates:
(1) Charging Water Rates on Actual Area Irrigated (Present
System); (2) Charging Water Rates on Volumetric Basis
(Proposed Rates)", Haryana Irrigation Department, May, 1982.
4.  "Supplementary Note on Modernization of Existing Channels under
Haryana Irrigation Project Phase II", Haryana Irrigation
Department, May, 1982.
5. "Modernization of the Design Office", Haryana Irrigation
Department, May, 1982.
6. "Evaluation of Seepage Losses on Unlined and Line Channels in
Haryana", Haryana Irrigation Department, December, 1981.
7. "Sample Survey of Benefits other than Irrigation from
Modernization of Existing Channels in Haryana", Haryana
Irrigation Department, April, 1982.
8. Watercourse Lining Manual, HSMITC, April, 1981.
9. Low-Head Micro Hydro Power Potential on Canal Systems in
Haryana, HSMITC, 1981.
10. "Techno-Economic Study of the Recovery of Water Related Charges
in the World Bank assisted Haryana Irrigation Project", National
Council of Applied Economic Research, April, 1982.



-105-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Organization Chart
Relevant Departments of Government of Haryana
rCHIEF
|MINISTER
MINISTER FORjMIITRFRMNSEFO
IRRIGATION, POWER                      I               AMIRICL TUR            FINACER
AN D PUB LIC WOR KSAGIUTRFNNC
CHIEF
- .                              r                  I SECRETARY
I,                                     I                                      
SECRETARY                        SECRETARY                       SECRETARY            SECRI                SECRETARY
PUBLIC WORKS                      -IRRIGATIONSERTYSCETRSCEAY
DEPARTMENT                        ANDTPOWER                     PUBLIC HEALTH        AGRICULTURE             FINANCE
HARYANA
CHIEF ENGINEER       STATE ELECTRICITY        IRATIN             PUBIC HE AHIE           DIRECTUR
BRIDGES AND ROADS J          BOARD                IGATION__PUBLIC__HEALTH__              AGRICULTURE_
HARYArNA STATE                  COMMAND AREA         DROUGHT PRONE        SMALL FARMERS
MINOR IRRIGATION                  DEVELOPMENT          AREA PROGRAM         DEVELOPMENT
TUBEWELL CORPORATION                       CIES             AGENCIES             AGENCIES
References
Flow of Executive and Administrative Authority
---   Administrative Control of Secretaries                                                                     World Bank-24085



INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
HARYANA IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
Organization Chart
Secretary triyganc,     |
P & C Steering
Committee
Engineer in Chief
R & D and
,raining Unir
Chief Enginee                      Chef Engineer                       Chief Enginaee                 Chief Engineer                  Chief Engineer                 Chef Engineer
Sutlej-Yamuna Link                   JLN (Lilt Canalsl                       Projeicts                       Canals                        Drainage I                     Drainage II
SoPerintending                                                         Soperinteecing                 Soperintending                  Scperintencing                  Superintending
Engineer                        Superintending                         Engineer                       Engineer                        Engineer                       Engineer
Remodeling Circle                       Engineer                         Lihing Cinc e I           Regulation and Planning            Hate K-nd Barrage             Massani Barrage Circle
Karnal                          JLN Circ.e I                           Sirsa                        Chandigarh                 Circle Yarnina Nagar                 Gergaon
Superintending                     Sicenintending                      Super-ntending                  Superintending                 Superintending                 Superintending
Enginer        jE EngineeEnginee                                                                       Engineer                       Engineer                       Engineer
Project Circle                     JLN Circle 11                      Lining Circie I I             Bhakra Canal Circle              Drainage Circle             WGC Feeder/Gurgaon
Chandigarh                           Rohtak                              Hissar                          Kaithal               |        Rohtak                          Delhi
Superintending   si,peritending                                        Suereintending                 Superintending                  S,perintending                 Supenntending
Engineer                           Engineer                            Engineer                       Engineer                        Engineer                       Engineer
SY L Circle I                     JLN Circle 1   l                    Lining Circle Ill            Hissar Bhakra Circie              Drainage Circle             Ujina Drainage Drain
Ar,bala                            Rohtak                              Kaithal                         Hissar                          H issar                  Circle I Faridabad
Superintending                     S,perrtending                       S.perinterding                 Seperintebding                  Superi'tending                 Superintending
E,Engineer                         Engineer                            Engineir                       Engineer                        Engineer                       Engineer
SYL Circle Il  i                Loharu Canai Feeder                   Lining Circle IV              Sirsa Bha-ra Circle              Drainage Circle              Ujina Drainage Orain
| Krukshetra                        PRhtak                      |        Rohta                            Sisa                          Karnal                     Circle 11 Gurgacn,
Si-nperinterding                   Superirtending                      Superinteriding                Seperintending                  Su.erintending                 Superintending
Engineer                           Engineer                            Engineer                       Engineer                        Engineer                       Engineer
Central Design Circle             Ehiwani lrr,gatiorCirc.cj    Lining C:rce V                        Western Yamnua Canal              Procrement Circle              Project Design Circle
Chandigarh                           8hivvni                             Karnal                     East Circle Delhi                 Chandigarh               (Head OfficefChandigar-
|It                    t   Superintending                       Superinteriding                 Superintending
I   I  Executive Engineer  {  4         Engineer                            Eng neer                       Engineer                   Execetve Engineer               Ececotive Engineer
Execetine Engineer~Crantructio- Circle I                        Lir.ng Circle VI            Western Yam,ina Canal                 Drainage I                     Drainage II
SYL (Head Office)                         Delhi                     |       Rohtak                    West Circle Rehtak                  H     D        Head Officel
{   {  Chandigarn  l                                                                                                           l      ChnCdigarnh                     Chandigarh
Supe-ritendirg                     Superintending
LL          Engineer                           Engineer                      IExcutive
Chakbandi Circle                      Monito-ing                       Engi ner
Officer on Special 1Chanigarh                                             Chandigarh                 Canals Head Office)
D| ety (Head Officel                                                                                      Chandigarh
Chandigrarh                                                                 I
l  Eec.tve a
S,per-ntending                                            Enginrer
Engineer                                         Lining (Head Dfficel
Planning Head Officel                                       Chandiiarh
Chand gem
Note:
Each Circle s managed by o Superintending Engineer. A Circle generally comprises four to line Diisions
each managed by an Executive Engineer. A Division generally comprises foar to five Subdivisions, each
managed by an Assistant Engineer. A Subdivision generally comprises fer to live Sections. each headed
by a Junior Engineer.                                                                                                                                                         World Bank-24086



-107-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
HARYANA STATE MINOR IRRIGATION (TUBEWELLS) CORPORATION
Organization Chart
Board of Directors
Chairman
Managing Director
Chief Engineer                Chief Engineer               Chief Engineer                Chief Engineer                  Financial
Works                       Tubewells                      Lining                    Monitoring Cell                 Advisor
Superintending               Superintending                Superintending                  Executive
Engineer                     Engineer                      Engineer                     Engineer                    Deputy Chief
Designs Circle             Tubewells Circle I            Sirsa Lining Circle             Monitoring                 Accounts Office I
Chandigarh                      Delhi                        Sirsa                      Chandigarh
Superintending               Superintending                Superintending                  Executive
Engineer                     Engineer                     Engineer                      Engineer                    Deputy Chief
Workshops Circle            Tubewells Circle 11         Fatehabad Lining Circle            Monitoring                Accounts Officer It
Karnal                       Karnal                        Hissar
Superintending               Superintending                Superintending
Engineer                     Engineer                      Engineer                 BAgroeconomist                 Banks Liaison
Pump Erection Circle          Tubewells Circle III         Tohana Lining Circle            AgoeooitOfficer
Rohtak                      Amballa                        Hissar
Superintending               Superintending                Superintending
Engineer                     Engineer            -         Engineer                 Sr Geohydrologist
Masani Construction           Tubewells Circle IV         Narwana Lining Circle          S  GodrgSecretary s                                 Chief Accounts
Circle Gurgaon                   Hissar                       Kaithal                                                 Secretary               Officer
Superintending    l             Director                   Superintending                  Executive
SuEngineerdn                Groundwater                      Engineer                     EngineerOfieIOfcr
Engineer Hy                 Directorate               Delhi Lining Circle             Administration
Micro Hydel            ~~~~Kara                      SoAdinipraio
Personnel       A~~ccou nts
Superintending    l                                        l                           f l    I
Engineer
Executive               Rohtak Lining Circle
Engineer                      Rohtak
Tubewells
Chandigarh
Superintending
Engineer
Jind Lining Circle
Jind
Executive                    Executive
Engineer                     Engineer
Lining I                     Lining II
Chandigarh                   Chandigarh
World Bank-24087



-108-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Details Showing Single and Double Tile Lining
X  TOP OF LINING
^   c          -                        n s~~~~~~~8 m  E            <
14                                                    B cmj
rm                                                                        SINGLE BURNT CLAY TILE LINING BEDDED IN 1:3 CM
.                                               _ = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CEMENT MORTAR 1:3
CEMENT PLASTER WITH 1:3 CM
BURNT CLAY TI LE (TOP LAYER) BEDDED IN 1:3 CM                     CEMENT PLASTER WITH 1:5 CM
CEMENT MORTAR 1:3                                                (SUB-GRADE)
SANDWITCHED PLASTER LAYER WITH 1:3 CM
TILES IN 1:5 CEMENT MORTAR (BOTTOM LAYER)
CEMENT MORTAR 1:5
CEMENT PLASTER WITH 1:5 CM
(SUB-GRADE)
DOUBLETILE LINING IN BEDANDSIDES                      SINGLE TILE LINING IN BEDANDSIDES
(DISCHARGE MORE THAN 2000 CFS)                          (DISCHARGE UP TO 2000 CFS)
Scale and measurements are approximate.
Note:
Thickness of cement plasterwith 1:3 CM in single tile lining varies with canal discharge as follow$: 10 mm up to 150 ft3/sec )cfs);
12 mm for 150 to 1000 cfs; and 16 mm for 1000 to 2000 cfs.
Burnt clay tiles messure 30x1 5x5 cm.
CM - Cement mortar.
Polvethelene sheet may be substituted for plaster layer.                                                           World Bank-24096



-109-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Cross-section of Typical Large Distributary
Lining of Existing Channel Versus Construction of Parallel Channel
Freeboard               Compacted Fill
0.5       n        n Lined Cross-section
Existing Cross-section
7 m           fl              9 m                               9m
Existing Canal Land
LINING OF EXISTING CHANNEL
Lege.d
(J  Filling                                                                             Scale and measur-inarts a-e app-oximate.
0Cung                                                                                   Note. FSL - Full Suoply Level
Top of Lining
z -/ : :---\ * z r > | --R:  Existing Cross-sect,or /
|Comptrcted                                   q          Lnn 
Fill
4m                      trnm                            6m
Add.tiona Lerd to be Acquired                                                                                          Land to be Surrendered
CONSTRUCTION OF PARALLEL LINED CHANNEL
World Ban) 24,099



- 110-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Typical Cross-sections of Lined Watercourses
0.9 m         / Brick Masonary
Slope 1.5:1 for Loamy and Clayey
F.S1L  Soils and 2:1 for Sandy Soils
Earth Filling  ~   7CemetCnrt
<    Earth Filling                                 nt& =  Concret           Ground Level
Compacted Earth          1:3:6
Slate pieces                                      Earth Filling
BRICK MASONRY ON SIDES WITH CONCRETE
BED OVER SUBGRADE OF SLATE PIECES
Brick Masonary
0.9 m/
Slope 1.5:1 for Loamy and Clayey
Soils and 2:1 for Sandy Soils
F.S.
Erth Filling /Ground Level
Consolidated Fi1i   Polyethelene
Sheet
BRICK MASONRY ON SIDES AND BED
F.S. L =Full Supply Level
Not to scale
World Bank-24082



-111-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Improved Turnouts (PUCCA NUKkAS) for Watercourse Modernization
PRECAST PANEL AND LID                                 CROSS SECTION OF
PANEL AND LI D
COMPLETE BRICK MASONRY INSTALLATION
Source: Thomas Trout, W.D. Kamper and H.S. Hasan, "Circular Irrigation Turnout: Design and Construction",
Water Management Synthesis Project,Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, Colorado.
World Sank-94nr.



IINDIA  -112-
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Canal Regulation Pilot Project
Pool or            Head Module (1)
Parent Canal                                             Upstream-controlled
^       (H     C r      Water Surface  Levels        lvConstant Level Gate (2)                   Duckbill
Pl or                        / Ceeir (2)                                                                                            Transversal
Parent CHmax. a                                                             Weir (2)
DISTRIBUTARY UNDER DOWSTREAM CONTROL
Pool or\v        Costn  Lee  _Gat___e                                                ___ 
(Lenal Toed Canal-
(1 Eac Control  autowmatiheallyks mainain cnecstant watert largel H downstreamofgtan  controls both flov andbination  level.dlewoldb
H max                     Baffle                                                                Counterweight
I                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F loat
H Nominal Water Level
HISTRIBUTARY n.DER UPST                    M C           LConstant
-        -       ~~Q
~~',-~Z:--       - 5%                                      Axi
Downstream  Constant
Module                                                                    Level Gate
HYDRAULIC OPERATION
World Bank-24084



-113-
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1983                    I9S4                     1985                     1986                    1987
2 12 31   l1 [2 j 3                             41                       1 2  44  121 3 4
Canal Modernization                                                   _               . *      j
Watercourse Moderniz3tion                                                                      i               _
Gravity Areas             _ 
Pump-lift Areas                            _     r i
Augmentation Tubewells I s
Tubevells and Canals
Electrification                                     -    -                f
Sprinkler I,rigation                                                                                             ]              - |
Village Water SupolV                          1                           r--
Village Access Roads
Training
Workplan                                 i
Center                                                    --
In-service and New Recruits    4i ,L          _
Research and Development                                              _|
Workplan                       | 
Pilot Projects                                                             -                  ... *                                -
Studies and Experiments
Legend:
. ....  .. Formation of special units
-   Planning, investigation, design, and procurement
Execution
World Bank-24097






IBRD 16552
*,v~~ ~~:'y-A~~   -            JULY 1982
iO  F)o /         '~CHINA  9   SUTLEJ, BEAS, AND RAVI RIVERS DEVELOPMENT
PAKISTANI               f               EN >> ......AND BHAKRA-NANGAL COMPLEX
,,*S'A 9YAN4 eh1    Vt  Del:t   SC AN  r0C PROPOSED THEIN DAM
HA,,,3                     A NOT TO SCALE                                      DAMHOP
B )   EANGLADESH          ---/-2-'   DAM          P    DAM
I NDIA                                                             PONDAM                                                                HIMACHAL
20   //~~~~~~  ., ~~~PRADESH
_20O   )   .   20 ' /              :        X .K5h,          ~~~~~~~NANGAL  .--.,                                    \             
ROPAK   DAN  SHAKRA
A                     CH an\DIGaRh            tJ.
HARIKE ,                                    DAM       Arr,r,r        ClANDIGARH(
FEROZEPUR DM.
DAM                      - 
SRF-                                                                                                                               .
Inset A                              I mnset                                            -----
Ambala
,.'TAIEWALA
HEDWORKS
PU N J A B                               <Y
~~~~ Ec {                                                                                                                     -'4    s     l              
LI..~   ~         ~ ~ . 2                                                    )  '  i  ,\/E22N..\\
r&7~~~~~~
HARYANA IRRIGATION III PROJECT  )  LI FT                         A  (A          "~~~~~~~~..N   A                      T,A 
CANAL COMAND AREAS 
E         [ -t .lIrrigation Canal Command areas      >Y!   $F                                                                  Del- -
Irrigation circle boundaries
Irrigation division boundaries                   L                    . H    A"  R    U
Canals:
Existing                                                                                                       on
- Under construction
Rivers                                                                          L
%      Dams                                                T               N   E  H                                         /          ,Re\ar
Main roads                                                          N   E   H   R        war
o     Cities and towns
     State capital
     National capita)                                             4u _  ..                            - |
State boundaries                                            c2  '.                                                                    .
------ International boundaries
R   A    J   A    S   T   H   A   N                                        7-     W  <7Mslr
Kilo.eters 0      2D        40       6A         80       100            R  A9
Mile- 0             20              40              60                                                                  S r .
rhis map has been piap-red by the World Banks st-ff e-clusivoly far the c-noaflntne
of th- ceedort of the teep- to which ht a aached, Th. d--no-in-tlon used and the
boundanteshte, on th,o may da not -m-p on tht part af the World Bank and to
sthhste, anry idgnnt onthe legalsus of toy S-r-ltor or-anYodhrsnent r
choptantbe of Such houndanso_






.e f  700  f    't.R0               9O-    This mop hac been ereppred by the
J   /   ,  . *    C H I N A        World B-aktavVff cclooimly for
PAKISTAN                                          the co_e_eiee_e of the re-d_r of
the report to whicht it atrached.
fAP176KLfTN The denitions ced and the                                                                            D       I
Ci                         fi _   i s .  bohcdaris shewn on th,e map
W& Bk -dt fheeatOfflith.e-y                                      HARYANA   IRRIGATION  II PROJECT
C. ~    /jcdgment on the legal etatt of
BANGLADESH  asn territory or oy eedorsemeet-
I N  D  I A                         -erac-ept fce of   - -chDitndarieto boundaries
......State boundaries
20                    g                     20'                                                                                           .-.--   .  International boundaries
KILOMETERS 0      20     40     60      80    100    120    140    160
\   gp   BAY  OF                                                                        MILES 0           io          40         60          80         100
AAB \IA                          BENIGA
SEA          \itc                                                                                 HIMA CHA   L                                                                                                                         H/ZA      CA'(AL
too                                          to 10'002.                                                                                                                                                                                    H14A   H
(HAND/GAI/H'         , PRA DESH-
f,ov   S   .Iv                                    Chond:aarh.fS@\>.>R/DE5H                                                                                                         CHAND/GA/?H4  H                 PRADESH
900      \
AGRO-CLIMATIC ZONES                                                   E                                                          GROUNDWATER QUALITY
6                               1~~I1000
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O)10
7'   ~  ~      ~ ~            P      NA 'K U RUK    ETE                                   900                                                                                                                                            30030
400  rahonal                                                        KcoArl                                                      Fresh w.L A  800
500          ~            
Hissar0  Hanoi                                     BRA0  NESH
Y. O  KAK R A 0                                                                                                              __                             PAD
290~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~Mric w:er 2000 '\                        6000  39    _9 ____                                                                    9
>       75                               765                               717o                                                           75                               76                               77                          jP Xn 70
Agro-Climatic Zones:   *                                DELHI~~~~~~~~~~Pa                                                                                                                                              29
LI7IZ   Arid                                                        s~~~~~~ 3GUGIAWOAN IroundwaT.6er    lt Areas                                       :
28      300 Isohryetsubinumilmtrd00t&                                                                               8                    Osalnlatin  aer  tabl
1..  P             -            FDeph o  atreshbl matger undrlai  by toi
0  emi-wrs                                   6AA T-A                          . ~       o.m.:Mria   ae   neli  bytesaln
State- capitalba                                                                                                      intheElectric 1 tonductivrsit n ctho e mhsf      cm
  National capital  JI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~DA                                                          Fresh mater:             20
0  Towns                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Marginal mater 2000lai tob00 Salin
Saline mater:          >6000
700                               76-                                7                                                            750                               760                               770 






IBRD 16554
30. /b ,1          4eb; CHINA   90  SUTLEJ, BEAS, AND RAVI RIVERS DEVELOPMENT                                      ToBhmb-v-Noes/hemodws                    JULY 1982
PAKISTAN0  l                   3TA  AND BHAKRA-NANGAL COMPLEX                                                       ( sen lony8]
4 0.   ~ ~ ~~CEMTCPROPOSED THEIN DAM
H IliARYA    me.h\-q>4-    NOT TO SCALE               ,(non-pnojecT)          DANMOH
RAN0LAE~~~~SH             MADHO~~PUR
.<. +.   BANOLAAESP  Rae TDAM                                                                  \
I ND I A                                                      PO
20-  <         /    20    //   /  '+;/ 7  /s ... \)  \-2 ...HIMACHAL
'S                     DAM                            CH, 9oNDIGARH'4                 PRADESH
ROPAR ~~ ~~DAM I  HKA' .adigorh
~~   ~ ~~s           I ~~CHANNEL        A
A,abio,                            2EROZEPUR
lth~~~~~~~~~~~0
Sea                                                                          VP0
SI LANKA                                                                         
Inset A         R5IstB'-(
mbala      ~~Taie w/
PUNJAB                              N                 AREA    Dadar                TAJERAS
RORITZ;A>z\,%                                FR   < -7  K                                   AF HAR
RAJASTHAN  ,  BACSRA
HARYANA IRRIGATION I[ PROJECT F-A                                RA TI A      BRAN                                                             PRADESH
PROJECTARECTA AND              IRRIGATIONCH    ARPN EBN
=     itcommands arEa   AI boudaIes            ft          '}     t       <      0                    wBIn
Gravity commands NBHAKRA,WESTERN YAMUNAIS E      W   A  N  I
_Proposed gravity pilot prolect areas           (    L   Fl T          s'>e. ,2/cg-_ .htsR
75     Number of tubewells in each area             ._~ A -       - I                            -/. .X .- '                          %
PropsedwirelNessstations                                                                                                            UTT
----Canal under construction                                   {                        >       >      $     . o        u g o                 \t,
-           Main roads    l \
PRJC    NAtioAl capta IRRIWARNHMPOART
State boundaries:
-    - CInternational boundaries
Kilomeiers 0       20       40       60        S0       100            ,                                      
Ltile     s 0       20     4'       0             60Ui)
rhis map hse ban,prepared by theP Wnr5d ReekS otath ancnisnnissy for thte noansantece                                   _.}sr
of=thereersvofthey r cormttohnohdt s  atKRohAd TheTdeNoYnAtiaMNAsed andhe W  A I A N  Iaphte
boPonarien sedt on rnts map  pr no jet c on tot pas of the World Ban nd ito  FA r  THJ T                            ,i             I    Tn
A*fft  any judgment no i he legal statu of any trerritory w any ndeOeMnt 0'                                   .   r--i
anreptanca f sundaian.






IBRD 16555
JULY 1982
I N D I A
HARYANA IRRIGATION IT PROJECT
TYPICAL WATERCOURSE COMMAND
-          Distribuvory or minor canal
.... Watercourse command or "Chak" boundories
Existing watercourse channels:
Modernized and lined
Modernized and unlined
-       Farm  outlets or nukkas
Watercourse outlet (head structure)
CULTIVABLE COMMAND AREA jCCAI: 168 HECTARES
DISCHARGE:                            1.00 CUSEC
TYPE OF LINING: CONCRETE BED AND BRICK WALLS
NUMBER OF HOLDINGS:                             32
WATERCOURSE OUTLET
!                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
aCs'
-/                                                                                                                              -b 5Z   -   - 
\. CIN
PAKISTAN   /.nrtNe. .
HARYANA            *-.,> K                                                                  -
BANOIJ0DESH
rl,o rttp ha- bee, prepared by the                                                       4
Wrdansstaff e-cltiely for
t.          f , teed  of
The e r SIatc itd- atthed
The deitsrnioatiooo uoodaod the              METERS 0                    250                  0
Is                                1s~~~~~~~~~l.  ho- dari-    sho n   -n  this    -np                           __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _  _ __ _ _ _
do   not  imply   . o     the  Part  of the                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Word Bank asda to 'e, af,to any                                IiE               0            00          100
->    SRI LANKA jJdgrt o the legal Stat   f                                                      F1
any territory or aoy enderoo,meot
70                               BANGLA H                -    - af  h b-odaie
,.~~~~o                           o.



