Document of                               FILE CLE 
The World ]Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3443-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 139.0 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MII
TO INDIA
FOR THE
HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
January 3, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 28, 1982)
US$1            =  Rs 9.775841
Rs 1            =  US$0.102293
Rs 1 million   =  US$102,293
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.0, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Report
ATW      -      Augmentation Tubewell
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
GOH      -      Government of Haryana
GOI      -      Government of India
HSEB     -      Haryana State Electricity Board
HSMITC   -      Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
ID       -      Irrigation Department
IDA      -      International Development Association
0 & M    -      Operations and Maintenance
PH       -      Public Health Branch of PWD
PWD      -      Public Works Department
R & D    -      Research and Development
RDTU     -      Research and Development and Training Unit
SIA      -      Sprinkler Irrigation Association
SMC      -      Shareholders Maintenance Committee
SPU      -      Special Project Unit
SYL      -      Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal
UNDP     -      United Nations Development Program
WUA      -      Water Users Association
WYC      -      Western Yamuna Canal
J



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HARYANA IRRIGATIOtI II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                     State of Haryana.
Amount:                          SDR 139.0 million (US$150 million equivalent).
Terms:                           Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:               As part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. The
Governmert of India would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:             The four-year project would continue the
Government of Haryana's State-wide canal
and watercourse modernization program by
lining about 2,900 km of branch,
distributory and minor canals; lining about
7 millior meters of watercourses; and
providing supplementary irrigation water
through t:he installation of 325
augmentation tubewells. Village water
supplies and access roads would be provided
and pilot studies undertaken to test
sprinkler irrigation systems and raise the
efficiency and performance of the
modernized canal/watercourse systems. In
this ongoing modernization effort, the
project risks are considered minimal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs: I/
US$ Millions
Item                                     Local           Foreign            Total
Canal Modernization                       73.5              14.4             87.9
Watercourse Modernization                 52.4               7.2             59.6
Augmentation Tubewells                    10.6               3.2             13.8
Sprinkler Irrigation                       1.9              0.6               2.5
Village Water Supplies                    16.4               4.1             20.5
Village Access Roads                       3.8               1.0              4.8
R & D Training & Technical
Service                                  4.9              1.0               5.9
Engineering, Supervision and
Administration                          26.0               -               26.0
Land Acquisition                           2.3                -               2.3
Base Cost                         191.8              31.5            223.3
Physical Contingencies                    13.3               2.2             15.5
Price Contingencies                       52.9               8.6             61.5
Total Project Cost                    258.0             42.3             300.3
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                            107.7             42.3             150.0
Local Financing                       150.3              -               150.3
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83      FY84      FY85        FY86       FY87
Annual             5.0        30.0      47.0        48.0       20.0
Cumulative         5.0        35.0      82.0       130.0      150.0
Rate of Return:           29%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 4099-IN, dated January 4, 1983.
1/ Including taxes and duties which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT
OF SDR 139.0 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MILLION)
TO INDIA FOR THE HARYANA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount of SDR 139.0 million (US$150 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second phase of the
ongoing irrigation modernization program being undertaken by the Government
of Haryana (GOH).  The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds
of the credit to GOH in accordance with KOI's standard terms and arrangements
for financing State development projects. The exchange risk would be borne
by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
700 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Growth of value-added in agr:Lculture -- 2.3% per annum over the
past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0%
per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measu-ed in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Railway Modernization and
Maintenance Project (No. P-3396-IN), dated October 25, 1982.



-2-
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time,
foreign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been
low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external
assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end
of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst
drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices
and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe
inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price
stability. The impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian
economy, particularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be
needed for some years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is
almost completed and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.



-3-
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively.  As
constraints on the supply of infrastructare and basic commodities continued
to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend
in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average
annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less
than 2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions,
combined with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp
decline in the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite
substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends
suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the
balance remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to
time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being
felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild
depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the
ability of the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the
production shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms
demonstrate the flexibility and resilierce provided by the public foodgrain
system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvemerts in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the ]:ndian economy continue to outstrip



-4-
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high
and further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be
increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the
Government has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the
public sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and
subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public
sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed
commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were
contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has
maintained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of
manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic



-5-
infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and
ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there is
considerable Tneed for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an eètensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (prirmarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and reasonable access 1:o foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its
long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastr-ictural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are
introduced. There will be a need also fDr continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of Drivate savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on tine deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As
demonstrated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors
can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the
requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and
long-term prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to
sustain. Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's powei.-



-6-
deficit will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project
implementation and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For
railways, real investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections
and will need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if
serious bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price
increases for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled
expansion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current
46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up.  These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments.  In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of
payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an important
element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be
adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is currently in a
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels
of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets.
Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as intended by the
Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level of commercial
borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher
levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a key element
in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment



-7-
requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that
India has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the s2vere setbacks of 1979/80, lends
substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to
remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by
adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a
rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per
annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.      A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about
12 million higher than official projections. The fact that there was no
decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2%
per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this
rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable
decline in the population growth rate has not materialized.  Until full
details of the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for
this outcome are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need
for continuing efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in
the Sixth Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to
over 35% by 1984/85.
21.      Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living
standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of
the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and
employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment
opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem in large
part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by
appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and
infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970
and 1981 resulting from India's sustainEd effort to raise agricultural
production, reflects such developments. There is also a role for direct
Government action in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through land redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans, and finally in broadening the provision of those
services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living
standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program,
which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade.
Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the
extension of rural health facilities anc. the provision of secure village
water supplies.  Operations such as the community health volunteer program



-8-
and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence that
well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects
for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 68 loans and 153 development
credits to India totalling US$4,095 million and US$10,956 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,280 million has been
repaid, and US$5,291 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1982 totalled US$287 million, representing an increase of about
76 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$219.6
million, of which US$26.4 million has been repaid, US$55.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$130.1 million,
US$121.9 million represents loans and US$8.2 million equity. A summary
statement of IFC operations as of September 30, 1982, is also included in
Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic
agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing,
storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also
been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while
curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks
which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power
generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through
its support of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance
of improving the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural
populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning
programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and
other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and



-9-
extension, will continue to receive suppDrt. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages wnich constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. ExDloitation of oil and gas resources
is a central element of this program, which should be supplemented by
investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expansion of
the transmission and distribution networks.  Industrial projects to increase
the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short supply
and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also receive
high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transportation
infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher levels of
economic growth so that further support Df the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance ta India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was abot.t 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1982, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totallec US$2,922 million, of which
US$1,308 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$1,614 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, cif which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In
1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN HARYANA
29.     The State of Haryana is one of the smaller States of India with a
population of about 12.8 million and a land area totalling some 4.4 million
hectares.  Agriculture is the dominant sector in the economy -- employing
about 78% of the labor force. The State is agriculturally advanced by Indian
standards and irrigation is used extensively for maintaining the relatively
high levels of agricultural production that the State now enjoys. The
Government of Haryana (GOH), has invested heavily in developing irrigation
over the past years. Haryana ranks second after the Punjab in terms of area
under irrigation as a proportion of total cropped area.
30.     The climate in Haryana is sub-tropical and generally arid in the west
and semi-arid in the east (map 16553). Three distinct seasons exist: the
kharif or wet season from late June to early October, the rabi or dry season
from mid-October to early April, and the hot weather season from mid-April to
mid-June. The mean monthly temperatures range from about 130 C in January to
340 C in June and mid-day temperatures sometimes exceed 450 C in the hot
season. The average rainfall of the area varies from about 300 to 400 mm in
the west to 960 mm in the east. About 75% of the rain falls in the wet
season, with the wettest month being August and the driest, April.
Predominant soils of the project area are sandy in the pump-lift areas 1/,
sand and sandy loams in the northern and western Bhakra and Western Yamuna
Canal (WYC) areas and loams in the eastern WYC area. Nearly 85% of the
irrigation works under the proposed project will be located in sand and
sandy loam areas where seepage loss rates from canals and watercourses are
high.
31.     Farmers in Haryana are progressive, as indicated both by the high
levels of fertilizer use and the large proportion of high-yielding variety
crops sown. As a result, average foodgrain yields in Haryana are some 30% to
40% higher than the all-India average. The main foodgrains are pearl millet
(about 35% of the area), wheat (25%), chickpea (19%) and paddy (7%). Cotton
(13%) is the major non-food cash crop. As a result of the increase in
agricultural production over the past decade, the State, which was a deficit
producer of foodgrains before 1966, is now surplus in foodgrains. In 1980/81
Haryana contributed about 1.7 million tons (out of a total production of 6.1
million tons) of wheat and rice to the GOI foodgrain procurement pool.
1/ Areas at a higher elevation than the gravity canal system which require
pumping of irrigation water to the higher elevation.



-i 1-
32.     The per capita income of Haryana in 1977/78 (the last year of
available data) was about Rs 1,469 (US$163), one of the highest in India.
The per capita income has been growing at a rate of about 12% annually in
recent years. The State has made significant strides in its development
efforts since it was formed in 1966 and continues to expand its economic base
and provide farmers with increasing access to public services. All villages
now have electricity, most villages have all-weather access roads, and most
farmers have access to at least some irrigation.
33.     Further improvements in agricultural productivity are constrained,
however, by limited availability of agricultural lands which can be served by
gravity irrigation schemes, and particularly by the lack of surface and
groundwater resources for further irrigation development. The main potential
sources of enhanced agricultural growth in Haryana will therefore be better
usage of available irrigation water, increased cropping intensity, and the
application of modern farming technology to raise yields per unit area and
production per unit of water. Such better usage involves substantial
improvements in the efficiency and performance of existing canal and
watercourse irrigation systems in Haryana, and such improvements are
recognized as the key element in GOH's program for continued agricultural
growth.
34.     Canal irrigation in Haryana consists primarily of the very large
gravity Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal (WYC) systems that, between them,
cover 63% of the cropped area in the State. The Bhakra main canal, completed
in the late 1950s, is supplied from the Bhakra dam with some 7,200 Mm of
storage on the Sutlej River in the Indus Basin. The WYC, initially
constructed in the 1820's and modernized periodically, diverts water from the
Upper Yamuna River, which is itself a tributary of the Ganga River. The
Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal, now under- construction and due for completion
in 1984, will augment the WYC water supp]ies in Haryana by nearly 50%. This
augmentation will also benefit the new pulmp-lift areas which are served from
the tail reaches of the WYC system which are already acutely short of water.
35.     Groundwater development in Haryana has progressed rapidly in the last
15 years, particularly in the private sector. There are currently about
223,000 private shallow tubewells, 34,50() open wells with pump sets and 1,560
public irrigation tubewells serving abou: 1.4 million hectares in total.
Present utilization of fresh groundwater is estimated State-wide at about 64%
of average recharge, but in certain groundwater areas, resources are much
more highly committed. There still rema[ns, however, considerable scope for
development in some areas of fresh and mairginal water quality and in brackish
water areas, provided the lower quality groundwater can be diluted with canal
water supplies.
36.     Groundwater quantity and quality varies considerably throughout the
State. In the eastern regions, fresh groundwater supplies are generally
available at depths of about 3 to 6 meters. Private exploitation has been
heavy and in some locations water table Levels have dropped, reflecting the
extraction patterns. In the western basin, groundwater is generally deeper,



-12-
about 15 to 20 meters on average. Brackish groundwater areas in the eastern
and western regions account for about 60% of the total cultivatable command
area (CCA) of the Bhakra and WYC systems.
37.     Agricultural supporting services in Haryana are well developed and
considered adequate to support developments under the proposed project.
Production and distribution of high-quality seeds is adequate, and the
distribution channels for fertilizer and agro-chemicals are well developed,
as are marketing, processing, storage and transport facilites. The Training
and Visit system of agricultural extension was introduced into Haryana in
early 1979, assisted by IDA under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Credit 862-IN). The agricultural credit system in Haryana is highly
organized and effectively managed. Loan recovery rates in recent years have
been satisfactory, with about 75% recovery for short- and medium-term credit
and 90% for long-term loans. Credit is provided through commercial banks,
land development banks and cooperative banks with offices spread throughout
the State.
38.     The Bank Group has contributed directly to the development of
Haryana's agricultural sector through previous IDA credits. The first
Haryana Irrigation Project (Credit 843-IN, dated July 19, 1978) assisted the
State in modernizing about 30% of its canal irrigation network, developed
supplemental groundwater supplies to augment canal surface water supply, and
promoted the development of irrigation in the pump-lift areas. It also
accelerated construction of associated rural infrastructure, particularly
village water supplies, all-weather rural access roads, and agricultural
markets. Haryana has also benefitted from a number of multi-State projects
supporting agricultural credit, and agricultural research and extension
services. These projects are progressing well: the first Haryana Irrigation
project (Credit 843-IN) is expected to be completed six months ahead of
schedule--by February 28, 1983. Progress on all project components has been
satisfactory and all physical appraisal targets will be achieved by that
date, except for the watercourse modernization, land leveling and
agricultural markets components which were financed by beneficiaries through
loans. These components suffered some start-up delays and the physical
targets have been reduced since, for land levelling, most farmers preferred
other sources or to utilize savings and, for the markets component, the
market committees preferred not to borrow through the credit sector to
finance this component. The funds which would have been utilized in those
components, have been channelled into the remaining project components and
the total funds will be utilized by the credit closing date.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
39.     In Haryana, the major constraint to increasing crop production is
limited irrigation water supplies. Haryana has made considerable progress in
implementing a State-wide program of lining canals and watercourse channels
and in developing available groundwater supplies. Nevertheless, there is a



-13-
need to accelerate these programs to utilize more effectively the increased
volume of water that will result from the completion of the SYL canal project
mentioned in paragraph 34 above and to increase the efficiency of the canal
network. Safe drinking water is not always available in the project area and
some of the existing supplies to villages may be jeopardized by the proposed
canal and watercourse lining program. In addition, there will be a number of
all-weather access roads to be built to villages that were not included in
the Haryana I project so that produce can be transported to the markets and
the necessary inputs, extension advice and crop marketing services can be
provided in all project areas.
40.      The proposed project will support GOH's modernization program over
a four-year period, 1982-1986. The project proposal was prepared by GOH and
GOI, with assistance from IDA, and was aypraised in May 1982. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report
entitled, India, Staff Appraisal Report, Haryana Irrigation II Project,
Report No. 4099 dated January 4, 1983 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1982.
The Borrower and GOH were represented by a delegation coordinated by
Mr. S. C. Jain of the Department of Econcmic Affairs.
The Project
41.      The largest component (US$130 million) of the proposed project --
canal modernization -- would finance canal lining, improvement of water
regulation facilities and the installation of a two-way radio network for
improved communications on the Bhakra and WYC systems. The need for canal
lining is particularly urgent because of high seepage losses in the
predominantly sandy areas, brackish and rising groundwater, and the
likelihood of increasing difficulties in obtaining sufficient closure period_
in the future (for canal modernization works) when the additional water
supplies from the Sutlej-Yamuma Link (SYL) Canal project, expected to be
completed in 1984/85, become available. In some of the larger canals, which
have limited closure periods, construction of parallel lined canals will be
more practical than lining of existing canals.  GOH would develop not later
than December 31, 1983, new or improved design standards for the
modernization of water control and regulation facilities that adequately
reflect projected canal operational requirements (Section 2.04, draft Projecl
Agreement). A feasibility study for installing a two-way canal radio system
for voice communication is underway, to be completed by April 30, 1983 and,
based on the results of the study, the system would be installed by June 30,
1984.
42.      The project would also finance, at a cost of US$98 million, the
modernization of 1,700 watercourses in the Bhakra and WYC gravity areas, an;:
an additional 200 watercourses in the pump-lift areas which are under
construction and development.  Watercourse modernization would involve linti,
of the earth channels and the construction of improved gated turnouts,
division boxes, culverts, cross drainage structures and falls, and improved
permanent farm turnouts with gates on both lined and unlined portions of each



-14-
watercourse. Permanent crossings over watercourses would be constructed to
enable access to each holding by bullock cart or tractor. The component
would also provide for buildings, staff housing, and staff support necessary
for implementing the watercourse modernization program.
43.     To augment canal water supplies, the project would finance the
installation of 325 augmentation tubewells (ATW's) including tubewell
construction, electrification and link canal construction costing some
US$21 million. The ATW program aims at optimizing the management and
utilization of groundwater and surface water resources jointly for maximum
benefit. To promote more efficient on-farm water application technology, the
project would also finance (at a cost of US$3.8 million) the installation of
about 100 sprinkler sets. The sets would be installed primarily in the sandy
and undulating areas in the western part of the State, with two-thirds in the
sandy pump-lift areas (served from the WYC) and the remainder in the western
part of the Bhakra command area. Each sprinkler set would serve a command
area of about 40 hectares, consisting of between 10 and 20 separate farms.
This component would expand an earlier GOH-sponsored experimental program
and would test different types of sprinkler equipment, develop procedures for
establishing and maintaining effective farmer involvement, and test alternate
canal operational patterns to supply water to sprinklers on a more frequent
schedule. Positive farmer involvement is essential in the efficient
operation of the sprinkler-irrigated command areas. To promote this
involvement, GOH would, by September 30, 1983, prepare a plan for
establishment of the Sprinkler Irrigation Associations (SIAs) consisting of
farmers in the affected command areas of each sprinkler site (Section 2.07,
draft Project Agreement).
44.     The project would, in addition, finance the construction of 120 water
supply schemes for so-called "scarcity" villages. Of the 120 schemes to be
built, 62 would be supplied by tubewells and 58 would be supplied from
irrigation canals where groundwater is not potable. An additional
196 kilometers of all-weather access roads would be constructed to serve the
111 villages in the State not yet connected to marketing and distribution
centers.  The total cost of these two components would be about
US$40 million.
45.     Special training programs would be developed under the project to
meet the longer-term needs of the Irrigation Department (ID)--needs that
will, in the future, be oriented towards improved design, and the application
of up-to-date technology and management of existing irrigation systems.  GOH
would, not later than September 30, 1983, prepare and furnish to the
Association for its comments a training program for in-service staff and new
recruits to the Irrigation Department (Section 2.09, draft Project
Agreement).
46.     A number of Research and Development (R & D) components would be
undertaken in the project that, together, would develop and test options for
improving the canal system performance and efficiency. A canal regulation
pilot project would test advanced designs and technologies that have been



-15-
adapted successfully in a number of developing countries in order to improve
the speed of response, precision of water control and efficiency of
management for selected pilot channels. In conjunction with ttie above, the
R & D component would support a pilot prcject on volumetric water charges and
farmer organization over the same 20,000 ha area as used in the above canal
regulation project. In this context GOH would, not later than September 30,
1983, prepare and furnish to the Associat:ion for its comments, work plans and
schedules for the R & D activities (Section 2.09, draft Project Agreement).
47.     High groundwater levels are posinig serious problems in some parts of
Haryana and the R & D component would support a major study of drainage and
groundwater salinity -- identifying the :investment and management needs of
various alternative solutions. UNDP is currently funding a detailed
hydro-chemical study of groundwater qualiLty within the State and this study
would be integrated under the R & D component of this project as a part of
the overall study of drainage and salinity problems in Haryana. A number of
other studies and experiments cover dynamic canal regulation, power
generation experiments, special purpose lining systems and system management
concepts.
48.     Many of the R & D components and pilot projects and other
experimental activities proposed are highly innovative and of an experimental
nature and will require specialist exper-ise. Specialist advisory services
of individual short-term consultants required for this project are estimated
at about 70 man-months. GOI would support the allocation of the necessary
consultant services to GOH under an on-g3ing UNDP grant to GOI for water
management consultant support.
Project Implementation
49.     The implementation arrangements [or the project would follow the same
pattern as the ongoing Haryana I project. Implementation would be the
responsibility of the following GOH agenzies: The Irrigation Department (ID)
for canal modernization, sprinkler irrigation, training and research and
development; the Haryana State Minor Irrigation (Tubewells) Corporation
(HSMITC) for watercourse modernization and for installing ATW's; the State
Electricity Board for the electrification of ATW's; the Public Health Branch
of the Public Works Department for village water supply schemes and the
Buildings and Roads Branch of that department for the village access roads.
To ensure adequate coordination of these various Government departments, GOH
established, under the Haryana I project, a project Planning and Monitoring
Committee staffed by representatives of all concerned agencies. These
arrangements have proved to be satisfactory in the Haryana I project. It
would continue its functions under this project and report to the Secretary
of Irrigation.
50.     A number of organizational units would be established under the
proposed project. To handle the increased research and development and
training workload effectively, a special R & D and Training Unit (RDTU) would
be established, headed by a Chief Engineer who would report to the Engineer



-16-
in Chief (ID). The RDTU would plan, design, coordinate and monitor pilot
project experiments and studies under the project and would plan and arrange
training programs for ID and related staff. The RDTU would be guided by a
technically oriented R & D Steering Committee, chaired by the
Engineer-in-Chief (ID), with members from the Agriculture Department,
Agricultural Universities and other agencies as needed. GOH has already
formally established the RDTU and the Steering Committee and would maintain
and appropriately staff the RDTU for this project (Section 2.10, draft
Project Agreement).
51.     Under the project, the RDTU, in conjunction with the Canal Wing of
the ID, would develop alternative canal operating procedures based on the
results of the pilot studies to fully utilize the improved capabilities and
the higher water flows resulting from modernization of the system. Through
the R & D component, the ID would develop and test modified operating
procedures designed to take advantage of improved canal system performance
capabilities developed under the project. To further strengthen and enhance
quality control of irrigation works under the project, and to ensure public
confidence in the completed facilities, the GOH would study, under the R & D
component of the Project, measures to upgrade construction quality control
practices, procedures, and organization of canal and watercourse
modernization. Similarly, under the project, the RDTU would design, test and
implement an improved management information and performance reporting system
which would be continuous and include details on water delivery targets,
achievements, irrigation area yields, financial expenditures, receipts and
manpower requirements and turnover. The resultant reports would be issued
regularly.
52.     At the field level, Special Project Units (SPUs) would be formed
within the ID under the local Superintending Engineer, Canals (SE), to
implement the sprinkler irrigation pilot project and other R & D activities.
The SPUs would be functionally responsible to the RDTU for the technical
content of their work. Each SPU would comprise a multi-disciplinary field
team headed by an Officer with the rank of Executive Engineer and would
include agriculturalists and agricultural engineers. GOH would, by June 30,
1983, establish such Units within the Irrigation Department to undertake
field level research and development activities, and support and monitor the
Sprinkler Irrigation Associations (Section 2.06, draft Project Agreement).
53.     With respect to watercourses, the shareholders on each watercourse
would form a Shareholder's Maintenance Committee (SMC) which would
periodically inspect the watercourses, monitor water flows and check
maintenance works done. GOH would develop and furnish to IDA for its review
and comment by December 31, 1983, and thereafter carry out a plan for
establishing SMCs on project watercourses, and a draft model maintenance
agreement between SMCs and the ID/HSMITC to ensure effective maintenance of
the watercourses and appropriate monitoring and reporting procedures
(Section 2.05, draft Project Agreement).



-17-
54.     With_r? the Public Works Department (PWD), the Public Health (PH)
Branch, which has responsibility for village water supply schemes, would
increase its staffing to complete the pro-osed works and to more effectively
monitor its 0 & M expenditures. GOH would, by June 30, 1983, establish and
adequately staff an Appraisal and Monitoring Cell within the PH Head Office
(Section 2.08, draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
55.     The estimated total cost of the project is US$300.3 million (in 1982
prices) including taxes and duties which are negligible. The foreign
exchange component of the project cost is estimated at US$42.3 million (14%).
The principal cost components, net of physical and price contingencies, are:
canal modernization US$98.2 million; watercourse modernization
US$72.3 million; augmentation tubewells US$15.9 million; village water
supplies US$23.1 million; and other components US$13.9 million. Physical
contingencies, at US$15.5 million, were estimated separately for each item
and average 7% of base cost. Price contingencies, at US$61.5 million,
account for about 28% of base cost and are based on expected domestic
inflation rates of 8.5% in 1982/83, 8% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85 and 6% in
1985/86, and 6% thereafter. Inflation rc,tes on the foreign expenditures are
expected to be similar.
56.     The credit of SDR 139.0 million (US$150 million equivalent) would
cover 50% of the total project cost, including all foreign exchange costs and
about 41% of local costs. The Government: of Haryana (GOH) would finance the
remaining project cost. The proceeds of the credit would be used to finance
civil works (US$132.7 million), equipment, materials and vehicles
(US$8.2 million), monitoring and evaluati.on, R and D pilot studies and
technical services (US$4.3 million), and the remaining US$4.8 million will be
left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     Civil works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$234 million net of engineering and admninistration costs. The entire
construction program consists either of improvements to existing conveyance
systems or development of inexpensive AT4's, village water supply schemes or
village access roads. All works are smaLl and are geographically scattered
throughout the project area. The lining and other modernization works must
also be done intermittently to minimize interruptions to water supplies.
Even though works would be packaged in large groups wherever practical, only
about US$10 million of works would be suitable for foreign contractors and
such works would be procured using international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures with domestic bidders receiving a 7.5% preference in the
evaluation of bids. The balance of the works would be grouped as appropriate
to attract maximum competition - but because of the constraints mentioned
above, would be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Work order type bidding procedures would be used for
small contracts of less than US$25,000 each and some works would be



-18-
undertaken by departmental forces, and in aggregate would amount to less than
15% of total civil works.
58.     Equipment, vehicles and materials totalling about US$19.5 million,
including contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages
and procured by ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Qualified domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, and bid documents would specify
their eligibility and the manner of application of the preference. Because
of existing servicing and spare parts facilities, considerable advantages
would be derived from procuring locally manufactured light equipment and
vehicles -- these being readily available domestically at competitive prices.
Such goods would be procured under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA, would
be limited to individual contracts of less than US$100,000 and would not
exceed US$5.0 million in total. All bidding packages for works estimated to
cost US$0.5 million equivalent or more, and all ICB packages for goods, would
be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement procedures -- resulting in a
coverage of about 70% of the total estimated value of works and 85% of goods
procurement.  The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review
by IDA. The Central Water Commission of GOI has recently developed model ICB
and LCB bidding documents and procedures for both works and goods procurement
that are considered satisfactory by IDA and these would be used in all
procurement.
59.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles and against
the ex-factory price of locally procured items. Where the ex-factory price
is not readily available, 70% of expenditures would be reimbursed.
Disbursement for civil works would be 70% of expenditures. For monitoring,
evaluation, training, R & D pilot studies and technical services (excluding
equipment), 100% of expenditures would be reimbursed. Disbursement for
watercourse modernization and ATW's would also require a certificate of
completion from HSMITC: such certificates would certify completion of all
works according to agreed planning, design and quality standards. For the
ATW's specifically, such documentation would also certify that
electrification is complete and that the operational discharge is at least
70% of design capacity. For civil works payments up to Rs 300,000 each, and
payments up to Rs 150,000 each for equipment and vehicles, disbursements
would be made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents
for these payments would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by GOH
for inspection by IDA review missions. Certificates of expenditure would be
audited at least every six months and a report would be submitted to IDA
promptly thereafter. Retroactive financing in the amount of SDR 3.0 million
would be available to cover qualified project expenditures incurred after
February 1, 1983.  It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
August 31, 1987.



-19-
Benefits, Risks and Economic Justificaticn
60.     The proposed project would assist in expanding the area under
irrigation in Haryana by approximately 245,000 hectares. The incremental
agricultural production at full project development would be about
491,000 tons annually. Net farm incomes in the project area would increase
by some US$60 million per year. Additionally, although not quantified ii the
project analysis, increased yields would result from a more regular provision
of irrigated water with greater reliabil:-ty and equity. The project
construction works would generate an additional 57 million man-days of
employment over the four-year period. Farm employment in the project area
would increase by about 17 million man-days annually.
61.     The project economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 29%.  This
relatively high return reflects large sunk costs in the existing main
irrigation systems. The ERR figure includes the costs of the village water
supply and access road schemes but does not include any benefits generated
therefrom.
62.     The results of the sensitivity aaalysis indicate that only large and
quite unlikely, adverse deviations from cost estimates (over 112% increase
in costs or a reduction in crop prices of about 55%) would make the project
economically non-viable. A delay of four years or more in the accrual of
benefits would be required to make the project non-viable. As this is a
continuing project, it is considered that the project risks involved are not
greater than those found in the Haryana I project which itself has been
implemented satisfactorily.
Cost Recovery
63.     For the canal systems, the State budget expenditures have been
sufficient to ensure the efficient operation and maintenance (O & M). Over
the past five years, receipts from water charges paid by farmers has averaged
about 95% of 0 & M expenditures in the Ehakra and WYC systems together. A
part of canal modernization capital costs would also be collected through
water charges (Section 3.04(a), draft Project Agreement). For watercourses,
GOH recently (February 1982) announced a. new water charges collection policy
for farmers. Effective from that date, GOH would require all farmers in land
holdings of 1 ha or greater to pay 50% of the costs of watercourse
modernization (in annual installments with the "loan" amortized over nine
years at 10 1/2% interest) and 50% of the annual 0 & M costs. The remaining
50% would be paid by GOH to HSMITC as a subsidy. Farmers with holdings of
less than 1 ha would have a moratorium on these annual watercourse charges.
Because of the predominance of farms of area greater than 1 ha in Haryana,
collections from farmers will average 45% of capital costs and GOH will pay
the remainder. GOH would collect such charges, which include maintenance
charges of about 3% per annum of the watercourse capital costs, from farmers
in the project area (Section 3.04(b), draft Project Agreement). The 0 & M
costs of the village water supply schemes would be fully recovered from the
village councils (Section 3.04(c), drafl: Project Agreement).



-20-
Environmental Effects
64.     The project would not be expected to have any negative environmental
impact. On the contrary the improvements in the pump-lift areas are expected
to reduce erosion and slow the advance of the desert. GOH would take all
necessary measures to minimize the hazards of malaria and water-related
diseases in the project area (Section 2.13, draft Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Haryana, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I (d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
January 3, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 1 o f 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATDRS DATA SHEET                        g
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV_2RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURIL    1818.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USR)                   70.0       110.0     240.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSU :.TION PEi CAPIT
(KILOGRAMS iF COAL  TUIVA1 NT,     111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL oIATISTiCS
POPULATION, MID-YEAX (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Oi 'CTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.3               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAS. 2000 (MILLIONS)                     994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY P)PULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3        166.6     200.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. RH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        307.8     362.8             355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9         42.7      40.2               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5         54.2      56.8              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                     3.3
POPLLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.3       2.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               2.5         3.3       3.3                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.7       2.4                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          98.0        102.0      99.0             108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6         90.4      88.8/c            97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6         49.7      48.4/c            56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2         14.8      13.1/'E           20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2        20.7      17.4               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2         48.1      51.8              57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0        139.0     123.4              89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0              32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0              22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0               18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0              72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0               4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4       4889.0    3630.6            3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1             4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7       1612.9    1311.0/e          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                . -                362.3F-           301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..           ..  10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                 ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URBAN                              2.6          2.8
RURAL                              2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA S-OßCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0         90.0       92.0;            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0/              87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        26.0       27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0         36.0       36.0/;             63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      17.0/!              41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       0.7/f               1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.1        41.5       51.8/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                           16.0        20.9         ..               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0                52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6         1.1        1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9        21.5       33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0         0.0        1.0                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1            4.1       3.7                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    30.7        32.5       31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74.0       69.3               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                                27.3         26.9      25.9               23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1       1.1                 1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26. 3/B    22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.94g    49.4/i.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77       7.0/..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2Aj   16.2/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     132.0              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     178.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPLLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       40.3               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..       50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /J 1964-65.
may, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONLS OP SEOCIAL IffhSCA2lRS
Notes:  Although the data a-  draws from.        ure  generall  judged the   as subrreiead reliable, it should also  a  sated sht they say ethe inter-
_ationallyce.paraShe bhEras   ol ala lark ofaadaded detiatoln   and conepts used by dtff er.et cI.t. tesil  In cae siu   the daa    h   at rlee
theless, ue.ful so deacihe ordersad sagalsuda. idI.dre steeds, an  r                      _retete   -rorea    a-Jar diff.l-rae   heLaIe.u..   la
The  .eer.e. rap e       re  Ill She saelcsur  grasp of tiresubjec   raotyaed (2f eco...try group aSifh ss.-hbt hIgher overge i-c- Shea the c-u-ry grooup
of the  _ujet __astr  (accpt doe    "fIS  bore           011  Eupeteesgas  sre"Middle Inc-m  North Adrtca I'd MiSddhE last' Isrrue   aoc-.e ad steoag-
seienutualatlisSe) .  ha the orfe...c. ge...pdale she anecges ore papalasilt  elighted oruhthsl  eraseE fur ear  iedi,osor atd shone onlyl b
aaiy a   hersee                    ...roa   hsdta  orthaISdltaue    Sa este racer agof r-aurSea  onog she iSicolor  depnsa,                         h  ovoliuhllyadot
aedIs  ot  oSlrs,ratio   eat b  enrcieditrlatn    nrg           eatteindlat-s to as-he-   Those averges ore only ueSli   opro    ha    1 vaora
AREA (sha....nd eqiks.)                                                                               POuatO    ee Hfasioa1 Ned - toal atl as, and nasal - Popalutisa  (enrol,
Total1   Totalsr1    r  areat imp iclg load are  end inled caters; L979 duos.                          Irh, end raeAl ) divIded by the ir repetive num ber of boapisa1 beds
Age oi trl I      atstea t1-ctrce .oe  seed Ieopoc..rilp  orrmoyuaiheSopublic aud pelnate genesa1 and speciSlSeed hospital and re-
fer crps. yasrs,sobI od hItche-  gard.en  or Sc Io tallow; 1979 dote..                              hhlrturnee                  sptl  arb   buSlleats p- -aeeily staffed
hy asilees  see physliHs.  is1tabllslhens   pcavidcsg peiscipallyes-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - lNP per c-pSiastmae   Et c-r-     s-tetI prics.. l                                dIal care ar  loat locladad.  dasl h-spial.1, lua--c  -locdo h~ea1th
roloted by sass caa              thansebd as World Sank Atlas (19786-fl basIs); 1901,                 and medical  eetere oat paea= e-ly.,tadied by a, physSalan  (but by.
1)70, aud 190dna                                                                                        eiral asaiLsass . os,mdif.. etc.)  htb_h oter InpaIen  ar
datias aed pe-ids   Iteicied range at  edlua  fac1ilin e.    r  seat -is-
EN1R11 CONSUMfPTIONf PEfR CAPITA - AIo..aI osoe-ption of  -rIseecll  -regy (coal                         stool  ,paspase  urban h-sins.is tet e Wills  prlnrlipa)ge"Ill hospitals,
ond ligoite, petcleam,aet-raHgusad hydra-...sc..o.r. dgsosbhroalle-                                    oodcsraihospitols,lrtoi   _eIuralbospttlessde.d  icolads toercity
trialsty) in kilagras  of col-c1        nletper -opite;196.  19000,led 19P5                           ce-tees.  Sp-rtal.eed"bosyltal  are iocladed soly  ed,e total.
data.                                                                                               ddleoe       Ie Naspll Bd-T Total cambe r of adele elaus teredis-h-g-
ir-  hpiaadinyided by she oushee of blode.
pPOfULkTIllN dN  VITAL1 STATISTICS
Total- Ppul...  n,   id-Tear (Ih-o-als  - As at July 1; 196bi. 1970, sod l980                     IdIeNG
d-no                                                                                              Hrrge e  ofhoseod)pers... per bhaseboldl    atl  crIes, lend   r
febas Pnpulotilo  (cercet of Itoc1l  - lr.Ii  at arbac I  tto lca  paralacS ;                         A b1oovehadconsIts of Satgoop af iadeidua.l osl  share lining q-ate-
d.f.ferens. dfioctians of orb e  array map aftct comparability of data                              ald theleI  ioi  reals.  A hoarder or lodger sop or sap  to  be included In
as,l rag cutIes-; 1910. 1970, aed 1980 data.                                                          tht hoaseohld Sef-     aielrlpurpose.
PaooiaPcajsiiae                                                                               o rga         erfpebs  e   osta   S   ta, and total -acer..afeo
PPoplation In peer dope - Cur tpaputo... pr.jerti... aceI basedIat 199                              her of persons per room  is alI1l,bI, end coral scrpled ro...etia.eI
total populoelv- by oge sad eIs aod their  -actlity and fer t'iltrte.dwellings,  -epectti-1p.  S-ellings  -clade sc-permaneosatarae 
PcaJoctls psseletec-  tar  sa-aiepy raie. coprise of three levele as.eas-                         -s-ccpied porte.
Sa   If  yacac   eS bIrth' iaceaiage'itb  ...... y' a pee copita  icac               0ces  to El-etrcl   t  loIrceoc  Ir doeilSoal - ta-al,   lac  ad ..ca.I
lifel aed Snone ltevococsoi sga    P)pas.Sepr-lacn   oa  deRlsie  ai"h eiectcicty it lSIgqatraspceie
meea -o  eeiil icy taco elms lava  three   -leve a-asosig dealiar So                         of total, aches, and carol dselliSags PepertI-ly.
f_ttiacy according to incom   h-o  ell psot fasiy pluaniag os-f-rsn-
garb coastryyl,Is  h- aslgeed  on   icesao    ahonasof carslocy                              EIN.CATIOS
sod fertiIy scends SacpaJe_cln papoee.                                                           dstdraietIbin
Isasiocary ppaoeIn.a saieypopalasise  there is cc  -osth since                                      Priaesho  -ttal   malead feo1e - trotsttl.                       oosAfnl
,hehtrt1h rtac iS4rq_aaloaIlldeashca--.odalea-leae                -ssvs       re -                   garlmotoaho etatbe.pcie                  yllye _ia Prcenage   ad fresPecI.
soelvenoste           i S  is  -h-seed aly aflce   fertility Iest      -lee orin                    primacy schoo-a-ge popultos   osll           y .   E i-cicdes children  aged b-li
tho   epaeea   lve       if  e   nn-  cepcod-ctio  -at, else eah ge...eation                        peara bus adjusted far dltterent    msa   rmr   dur.cian; toe
of Icme  irplce   Sslf e_stly.  Tbe stationa.ry  ,papacto  sle wscutiesaIh oivco  euaIonennlc  may _eced 101 perteat
-teimatd asro theals.i  of she pe-jeised cha-acoisct_ of sh   oolt                                   iv-  can  pupils ar  helon atalone the ouitio5  school  gi.
is the yee 2I0S, cud ths case at denlise  of fortilityralenatceIpSa                                eodaysho  - Ista1, sole Asd trslsl  - Composed as abov;.e. ad
mess level.                                                          edacasiasreqa ices a~~~~~~t leacs fou  per  of appcved petery  icecueiec;
Tea  stti ..or  popalasian  is reobed - The year ohen  -saiacary  psstcio                              rsides general, vv_tlloca, Iolearher  -olinig  -cnatr ioee Pro  'paiSt
elsa  will be reahed.                                                                                --11ullpoa  12 ro 17 poes, fI a o; c-re-pacde-ce couse  aEt. crol
P.p.l.tlo- D-roly                                                                                        occiaded.
Pee so. ha. - Mid-year ... rpatios pet ....ce kilo-erte   1100 bectesaI.          S'tloo   nalot  preto.eods) ~f"It                              "    -taoialasctin
total area; 1960,' 1900 aod 19p9 data.                                                             ni_ude terbairal, isAstilo   aso    rgeswIch  pees    dpod
Pee e k. h. aeiaiacl  od - Cvepoted as abae for ugnri-1-1s laod                                     evaly or 00 depo--nte a f  -aodo-   isesIstsSiee.
ally; 1960, 1900  -vd 1)97di.9plrehrei-piay    n   eodr   T-tl studsets esc-ll ed  in
iop lalo Ago Incrnate  pleecooI - Citldree  (0-14 yearn.  sorbkii-age (11-                        pi rast  ald secod-cy loo-li  dinaded by na-b-cs of teaher  ithe
bA years)  ad reeSied          y ears aid  -eI) us p-ccacge  aSad-year papa-                        corsodiog  tenet..
lacioc; 1981, 1900,ad 6195i dais.                                                                 ,dais literacy cats Iperreor  -itsecate adults labl  to reed and7itht)
Pueltln  cat  hone (perctec  - tasI  - Anausl gr-eg  totes of total sid-                        aperceo-sage aS incS  ed.lt papalltina a gad 15 Year  _ed acer.
..se    . puletis to  195-60, 1960-PS an  1900-90.
epoplatias leseth Race9('pacest) - urbec   An-1a 9-ath caneu of ocbea pops-                       COIISIMPTION
laitl.s fart1900,-60, 1960-70, aed 1970- D.                                                       Issogrtre (Pe  thousandhpapalat1tioel- P-asge  car  -apriso  -,cac
Ceud  Nieh gae (pr ttased) - Annul1 'line bSirth  Per IL---sa..d aS aid-year                   cusa_      soflssta m       Sigcpros  encludesaaslot                 b earses and
teude  ec    oeIe  tossl-dee  deone perr thoo-ad  of m-d-yeo                                         '.dSa Rseaeivees leer thoosed papulltiol - All sypyr  of etrnio-en   Earrdio
papelatios; 1960, 19700 .ad 1990 data.                                                               raadcats  to genael pablic per sh...a.d of papslatise    " esIads o-
laeRepend-cieine fo-Averge nuber- fdogtea mawill bear in                                            lceesd rereicere  is cloari.ie  esd So psacs whe  reglatEaItc.  of eadlr
beev-Ia  eprdactine period  if she  rprernpresol eb                -spcIi   e-st   -  so effect; data  o   reces- peac s.oy  o  beicmaal   lc
nilcyetr;osalp  Sin-yea-  aercg-s eadlag iv 1)0,170, and 1980.cotcore  alahdIcsig
Faaily Pie-eog -hc"Pecars. Antuel (cbho-ada( - Aneual  -sb-c of ac-ptocs                             ' iRcelecs (per th ....ed papuietiac) - TV  -ereeer  for bcsadca-  to
atI hieth-oanr1 decice  c der epires of-as_`a family p1laciog prcgr-s                                gevecl_  pabllt Per thossandpouain   ealaeuo  cesd TO ceceer...
aner  of child-bearing age (15-44 pears) aha 000 bircsh-cot-1  device  to                         lowa.papecir ollin(pee thousand ppitvl-Sh.a. the  yevesge air-
all macIed saman iv sam  age gosup.                                                                 c_lani-s of "dalily glev-a  itce  amapepee"  dofised a     periedir-
psliaa.cioe decred  primaily to recoding  essoeel sews.  In is can..ide-ed
FWDs ANISs NUfTRITION                                                                                   So he "doily" if it appears Et  ass. tootl ti-r   a wek.
tadec of road Prdodarian pee lapise  (1969-pl-100) - loden of pee capitaas                           ieaMcl  cedooprCpt  per Yea-Nose,d Ic the nubero
predurtioc at all fond c-mediti-s.  Podsctioo lEclad.e  teed ald feed and                           SickhEt  sold during the yeos, inriodiog odnissvnt  de in-is i.              s
is oc- caledar year heels.  Cosmdiciescn-ar priap    oe(..sgacn                                      od sblle caSte.
essead at  sdan  stint ore edible  ud c-eeaia   atniet  (eg. c-tte   aEd
see ar.v loded).Aggregate prod-ittara  sorb cha-sry in bas..dvo                                Ld0AM  FORCE
national a-rage producer price welghoo; 1)81-60, 1900, end 1990 data.                            'ata1 Laere PorreInaseas) -         .EeoIcahly aciel   persoos, incIaddag
Pee rapLsaopl   fclre   pecc.ftqioen    - iraputed feac                                               -rsd farc-c and asemployad b.Ioa -aludicibaales   tdca  et,,
ltt eoiva leac odfe  todoppliee avoiiable  is coutry Per caPita                                 covetIng popuhatlac of all ages.  Doefinitilac   ic  -oe-as-uoriesoee
per day .  Available n_ppis _ope ise domestic prod-cion, iep-ts lean- cal .coparble; 1960, 1900 ead 180  a
eapacs   e   bee   tsok               e  sples tal.eaimal fleed   ed,                               Female Ipecleot  - PeF el abrI         sc   apeientafe at Itota  labor foec.
...atia e  se  Sn toad pr-ceenig  acd loss.es is dtechtlc                 eais                     gloiae(preti-Lb                   oc   nfame . frescey, h,,i tgan
meets were Isti- Led by PAy bae.d on physioloicalIned  faorert acts                                  fiSiba   spretg     ofa total labse farc; 1910. I9PO eld 1990 data.
vty sold healt IIs...idering  -i--ocoaltepaar                  bo ldy seughts, age                  lod-sle  Ipeeet-          ao  roycef  I  elniag,  cstct lao   oaet
aed aa dietrnlbati.ofa Ppapltac-a, cod el.awiag hi peren  foe wase atad electicity,  -a- sod  Poera p Ill0  of tIo  laortats
ta..nehold level1; 1961-65, 1970 usd190dano.                                                          1960, 1900 and 1960 deco.
Per tent. a spplyo at prosic  gra  prdY   - Peceocaeso   e-aploJatlpta   an   prec       et    oi, sad fm1le- Partltipestea o
co -apply at toad poc day.  Set so'yel  of food Sni  dofiodatah1v.-   He-                        attinity cres are computed as ioal 1ml,  vd resole labs- foerea
qaireoosfan all co-sies  -tcbtished by USDA pranide far s.its                                       pecantoges ad canal, so.le sd female popuhatin   a.al  sg.reaep-cti-elp;
ollonre f hIgaao   as    o n   par day aid 20 gea-  of .c.ma  ..d                                   1960, 1970. ond 199dI          .Tb, se  000 hosedb  IL" 0's pectit ipatin  cone
poise. pronely ofwhch1    1re  sol  be  _cimL pr otein.  Otssad                                     etato      e- _o -vir tre e of Ibe  .papaStioc. od bogS time teen..            A
-edsarela-eth.enOhasrofi7gras-afcstrl1pnotaiaacdi23gcoeaf                                           tesetsnsr    rmosoasaco
asiml prteinso 0  av,n,ge foe the  -ord, prepased hy FAD in she Third                       Rcnatleodeyeal                   Ioia of payuhatlaa cedar 10 and 65 rod oe
Coeld rood Suncey; 1)11-60.1)00 and 1977 data.                                                      ta the total labor farce.
Per "Pits prta   apy from Eimo  aed pale-Prasa oply af ford de-
rie   rmaImasadPahe    in            ... gre    erdy; 16-65, 1970 sad 1900 date.        Inl,Off  OISI0~L8TIiff
Childl(.E.sl-4lieathgao(panb             utad)  -  A-slldeaeho  pe,thasnadla                        aacctgoSrvoe               tcs lhricca-ha-cdkidl  - ReEi-odhy,rithest
4                             ag~~~~~~~~~~~e grasp 1-A peaet, to -h ildo.n i  Ili, uqe gtoop, for sot developitg rae-             9     _eeet,cicon0peat,prendpret.ndorstOpco
tries dana dericrd Irau lift  chn;1960, 790 aed 1980 data,                                          at hrsehoLde.
HEAL.TH                                                                                             P101ERTY TARGET tiOUeS
Life iEpect-ay at Nirth (yours  - hoa..ge camber ad yeses at lire  -emitiog                         She fallowig  s.tfsotna arc e         apr- cet    -etel at povrty lev-ls,
at birth; 1960. 1970 lod 1990data.                                                                  Ia should be snterprsstd wit  coadca               acie
'Ifant Sfn-lttp ls.ae  (por th.-eod) - hanol deaths aS iofacto cdecar  pea                          foc~tleerd Abelco P_ntip Iscame h.enr  (01S$ P ar.cpisa) - afeho  aad coral1
of agI   a   hosn   Ie   its    980, 1971 and 1900dt.As8t   ssi   oce   oe   sta   naeles    ee    hc       iia
Acces  to Safe Waser (percen  otfroala  -  asl,ara, aed  -rr1 - No-                                   aueraioaahl1Y odaeq-a  dias Plus- -sealo  a             -doo    eqieassO  not
helf pepla  (erno1. anba, old tarot) wish ......... cces.             n .... e                   offaeblr-
eater  _app ly linalad-ecese --     ara-  a eacn or. I tesce -        c  sc-taod         l-atd  relas l- Paves y Ieo lce   aspe  ola  -ohsad rurl1
-eeruhrthoiramI..netos-d bsrehalea.pcegeassnasryellsjaR- iorltnpoverty_Illtaoa eaehisaae-thldravog  pertpita
peceagso   heir rsere   popuo_ ic I.              I           _ tabcae    pab~lc e         per...ssi Incom   a thbe caiy    lrbaa 1-n1 i  derva   ito  lIe r el
f.ootaicat  -radpa-clocs-dodtmsnetha   ~cllvcn                 rsbaea lev.  .     .                   elaltha~djotteronSf-thsghrcIose  ef l-ragfieurhanars-
coaidered an balo~ ig etchin crnonhIbl  a-ces  ad list h .ste.  In cora  -e-                     atae    oaaiolIeAsilePcnyloe   ee   pret      ra
peaa..eblec-e-n-onld imply tht .I  h .. efo  or  -ebre-  ofthe hausa:hold                           edcri-PcanoSpeateluacodao)abae"hste
do lo1 b-er to  pe,ed a disprpcoysiao-  pass aS the day  iv fenhi   th                              pace"
fsely. "tease  -ede.
Accs  so Ineeta Diep-sl  rpcca  aSI            pical-totol, arhac, acd r-c     -
Namlec of  ,poap  (t-sl, sabs   an  cna)2 are  byece                   ipacal a
Prcaaecf  htlir re-eciv   poptaiene   .  tcr-aIh.p-sl say include
the  ointo   ale  dispo...l, sca  c- ni-art tIIasean, ad bh-a  eu...oc
bcaalracc ohat-cr     r                1.-hocosov  iesofpi, pcliesndie-
Peuala re Physicia- fretoleri dtidod hy coeh   of pracIticIg physs-                                                                  Oacaic sad Sacia1 Data Divisias
date, qualIfIed  ter  a ledico   e       Icu  ctecLayleel                                                                           icseic Analyais ead Projections hope-st-
FPaplatiac par Ousicrea   - Ppanhoica div-dd by numer of ocl"ielc                                                                                         hop 1990
malesodtfsols1radaatesanses,  _selca_vc___  pr-tci-1nasessd
oosnovnliaci-s



ANNE I
Page 4 of 5
ECONIDIC DEVEOPMENT  ATA
Al
GNf PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US1 243
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                              AIINAL RATE OF GUl7h (M. constant prices) S
US$ Bln,                         1955/56-1959/60  196Ql-1964/65 1.5/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-197 L80
GNP at Market Prices                  159.37      100.0                      3.7                3.6                 3.6                 2.9                4.1
Gross Domestic Investent                38.46       24.1
Gross National Saving                  35.30        22.1
Current Account Balance                -3.16        -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN  1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force  i/              V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.              .              Kit.        2                  US$         7 of National Average
Agriculture                            39.8             39.6              180.6      70.7                 220               56
Industry                               25.2             25.1               32.2      12.6                 783             199
Services                               35.5             35.3              42.6       16.7                 933             211
Total/Average                         100.5           T1003
GOVERNHENT FINANCE
General Goverment          e/                                       Central Governmet
Rs. Bln.         7. of GDP                                           Ba. Bin.           7. of GD?
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77-1980/81                                   1980/81    1980/81   1976/77-1980/81
Current Receipts                    238.19      19.0          19.1                                        125.41       10.0            10.6
Current Expenditures                238.93      19.0         18.0                                         133.29       10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              -0.74      -0.1           1.1                                        - 7.88      - 0,6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/            107.35       8.5          7.6                                         79.99         6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/         12.86       1.0           1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    Jaruary 1981   February 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                109.8        194.6       223.2       273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9        553.1         536.13            615.53
Bank Credit to Governmnt (net)    54.6             95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0        258.1         238.22           292.18
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6          126.5        153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3        363.2         349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Nu.bers)                                                      Asril-Feb 1980/81  April-Feb  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money am 7 of GDP  27.3            28.0        30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1         44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8        185.8       217.6       257.0          255.9                    280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   7.7        25.2        -1.1         2.1         5.2         -           17.1        18.1           18.4                      9.6
Bank Credit to Government (nat)    15.0             9.2         2.7        21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8         28.4           28.6 6/                  2.27 _/
Bank Credit to Co_ercial Sector   19.4            18.2         21.5        20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8         18.6           16.6 j/                 20.9 
4 The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, t.81.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate previling during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organi.ation.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor coat series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank eatiostas; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
*/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties havoubean netted out.
;/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-Febrvary 1981.
h/ Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to eod-February 1982.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 i 1981/82  i'   M,MRZ&NDISZ EWORTS (AVEAG  1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                  USS Mln.       1
Exports of Goods                 6,978      7,998       8,504      8,700          Ensimearing ;oods            908         12
Imports of Goads                -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000           T e                          506          7
Trade Balance                   -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300          Gems                         403          5
NFS (net)                          71?       1,100        722        915          Clolthing                    501          7
Leather and Leather
Reoource Balance                 - 82..    -1.204    - 6,612    - 6,385             Ilroducts                  457          6
Jutc Manufactures            303         4
Interest Income (net) k/            14         196        370         212         Irout Ore                    321          4
Net Transfers   1/               1,185       1,577      3,079      1,840          Cotton Textiles              316          4
-                                                                Sug r                         102         1
Balance on Current Account         375      _-431      -3 163    -4 33            Othtra                     3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                      Totil                      7.448        100
Disbursements                 1,695      1,738      2,337       2,724  ./      EXlENAL DEtT, MARCH 31, 1981
Amortization                  - 702      - 608      - 707       - 659                                              USS billion
Transactions with IMF            - 158         -        1,035        690          OutAtanding and Disbursed                17.2
All Other Items                    265       - 475        147      - 797          Undisbursed                                7.5
Outstanding, including                   24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)        -1,475       - 224       351       2,375              Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,357        7,579     7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year)mn/    7,357        7,579     6,901       3,876          DEBI' SERVICE RATIO IOR 1980/81  _/ _n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                        IBRIVADA LENDING. DECE}IBZ  31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)             2,043      4,045       6,657      6,075                                             USS million
IBRD        IDA
Exports                              24         26        33         n.a
Outstanding and Disbursed       984          5646
Undlsbureed                     880          4634
Out tending. including
Undiebursed                1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971          US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972      US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                     Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980             US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981             US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
i/  Estimted.
%/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which in
included within official aid disbursemnts.
m0/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
4   Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
∞ / Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrjwings.
0 Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 23
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank             IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                                1,568.0
75 Credits fully disbursed                                   -           4,352.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                               -               12.0           0.79
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                         -               30.0          13.36
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                     -               83.0          21.60
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                         -               27.7           9.78
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    -               16.4           1.24
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              -               40.0          10.98
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                     -              105.0           5.95
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                   -              150.0          27.19
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            -                4.0           1.19
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development           -               18.0           8.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0              -            57.10
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                                40.0              -             4.34
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                       25.0              -            19.47
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                  80.0              -             7.07
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                 25.0              -             6.31
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development               -              30.0           17.07
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development               -               20.0           4.48
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                 -              150.0          14.13
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research          -              12.0           11.80
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                      14.0             -              5.86
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                 -               10.0           2.71
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                               23.0          11.81



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.--  Approval          Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -               8.0           4.86
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -              70.0          14.19
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -              13.0           2.47
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -              58.0            7.30
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5             -             4.00
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -             107.0          71.45
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -              87.0          10.06
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -                8.0           6.67
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0             -             7.17
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0             -            22.25
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6          64.06
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -             200.0          71.61
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -              14.0          11.74
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -              85.0          48.21
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -              17.5          11.20
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -              16.0          12.69
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0             -            37.00
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -             150.0         103.36
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -             196.0         174.69
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -             111.0           13.07
844--IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -              190.0          97.94
848--IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -              38.0          13.19
855--IN    1979     National Agricultural Research         -              27.0          22.28
862--IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -                 25.0          12.16
871--IN    1979     NCDC                                   -              30.0          10.16
1648--IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0             -            50.00
874--IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power               -             200.0         101.84
889--IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                      -             129.0          80.38
899--IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply               -              48.0          24.15
911--IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II         -             175.0          39.07
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -              23.0          12.79
954--IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II              -             210.0         123.37
961--IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0          22.55
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -              20.0          18.90
981--IN    1980     Population II                          -              46.0          42.20
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -              32.0          27.07
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -              18.0          10.59
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -             175.0         150.89



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1012-IN    1980       Cashewnut                                              22.0           19.90
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                                   300.0         239.39
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension           -               10.0            9.58
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                                56.0          45.91
1034-IN    1980       Karnataka Sericulture                                  54.0          50.16
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                         -               80.0           69.47
1843-IN    1980       Industry DFC XIII                    100.0              -            20.35
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0              -            25.00
1053-IN    1980       Farakka Thermal Power                  -              225.0         194.24
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0              -            26.67
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                       400.0              -            82.69
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                       -               35.0          24.25
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                       -               83.0          63.01
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II             -               42.0          29.53
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                  -              140.0         117.07
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                 -              314.0         193.52
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -               54.0          46.49
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project               -              400.0         314.42
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.           -               23.0          19.60
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.            -               28.0          23.28
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II               -               37.0          31.98
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -              125.0         101.29
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                  400.0         400.00
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation         -              220.0         206.02
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  100.0              -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry             -               29.0          26.94
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development                -               25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982       ICICI XIV                            150.0              -            141.49
2076-IN    1982       Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0              -           300.00
2095-IN    1982       ARDC IV                               190.0             -            190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                 -              160.0          66.36
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                            -                6.0            6.00
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization            200.0                          200.00
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III*            304.5                          304.50
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     20.3                           20.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                                    60.0          60.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply+*                                72.0          72.00
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry*                            33.0          33.00
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh II                             31.0          31.00
Irrigation*
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation+*                            127.0         127.00
Total                                     4,095.3        10,955.6
of which has been repaid                1,173.0           106.7
Total now outstanding                     2,922.3        10,848.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,922.3        10,848.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,308.1         3,982.7
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, 1s established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominate,i IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.07234) in effect on September 30, 1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 23
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0         1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.               15.9         -       15.9
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.              8.1         -        8.1
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          207.5       12.1    219.6
Less:   Sold                           53.0         2.6     55.6
Repaid                         26.4         -       26.4
Cancelled                       6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      121.9        8.2    130.1
Undisbursed                   103.0        0.5    103.5



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 23
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year.  Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1982 total US$287 million, representing an
increase of about 76% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline as of September 30, 1982, is US$5,291 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051  Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 mil:Lion loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteentb ani fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 23
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan funds were fully committed
in December 1981, but close supervision has been necessary to ensure timely
implementation of sub-projects and full disbursement of the loan by the
closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project also assists IDBI
in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector. Progress
is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
As of June 1982, 31 of the 37 fertilizer sub-projects being funded
by Credit 598 have been completed and are in operation. IDA has agreed to a
six-month extension of the closing date to December 31, 1982, by which date
the remaining six sub-projects will be completed and the credit fully
disbursed. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily. Site preparation is
well advanced. All major design and critical procurement work is essentially
complete, and detailed engineering is now being carried out. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress. Preparation work and investment approvals for
the energy efficiency and pollution control components are expected to be
completed on schedule. Attention is now being turned to the construction
programs under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 23
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date:  February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1934
The project is progressing well. All platforms and subsea pipelines
have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached its targetted
production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in Slay 1982, and is presently producing
250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 nillion credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal PowEr Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective late: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power 1'roject; US$50 nillion loan and
and       US$200 million credit of Eebruary 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in Financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Crelit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 23
which also became effective MIarch 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. Construction works for the
Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations are on or ahead of schedule, although
some slippage has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam
project. The first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on
schedule in February 1982, and the second unit in October 1982. The first
unit at the Korba station is scheduled to be commissioned in January 1983.
In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant equipment, price
increases for materials, and increases in customs duties have resulted in an
increase in the total cost of the project. The Governrient of India is
raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the additional cost.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165 Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date:  October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Under Credit 911, project implementation is progressing approximately
on schedule without major problems. Procurement of materials and equipment
is well advanced. Disbursements of the credit proceeds are ahead of
appraisal projections. Under Loan 2165, initial project progress is
satisfactory. Procurement is approximately on schedule, with the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) now proceeding with bid invitations.  REC is
reorganizing its capability to monitor financial performance of the
individual SEBs, which is likely to have a beneficial effect on this project
as well as on Credit 911.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily. They are
overcoming initial delays caused by procurement problens and a five-month
labor strike against one of the indigenous suppliers. All funds from
Loan 1313 have been committed and procurement action under Loan 1592 is well
advanced. Disbursements are expected to accelerate as work progresses. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 23
Posts and Telegraphs Department remains E. financially sound and
efficiently-managed organization. Credit 1112 provides for the continued
expansion of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural
areas, the establishment of three new telecommunication equipment factories
and the modernization and upgrading of three existing ones. Bid evaluation
is progressing satisfactorily and it is Expected that the project and its
individual sub-projects will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernizat:ion and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availabilit:y. Physical execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.  The wheel and axle plant is expected
to be operational by December 1982, and :;ndian Railways  financial and
traffic performance continues to improve,
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered.  Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and wor' began last March.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been good progress in meeting the physical investments
under Credit 1033. Delivery of more than 600 buses and trams required for
the project should be completed by March 1983. However, management
performance of the project authorities must be improved if they are to
achieve the operational and financial performance targets agreed to. IDA is
engaged in detailed discussions with the Government of West Bengal of
measures required to alleviate existing and possible future problems.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 23
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 11, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Madras Urban Development I, Credit 687, is fully disbursed and
scheduled to close on December 31, 1982. The project was implemented
satisfactorily and met its basic objectives, introducing low-cost design
standards to provide slum improvements to over 25,000 households, sites and
services development on 14,000 plots, and improved water supplies;
introducing improved urban management systems; and augmenting the city-s bus
fleet and the operational management capabilities of the bus company. The
second project, Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception
of the sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing
delays in land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively
pursuing the resolution of these court cases so that land acquisition can be
completed by October 1982 and the sites and services works finished by the
project closing date. Under both credits, the financial performance of the
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), the project implementing agency, is
unsatisfactory. It is not generating funds sufficient to meet its financial
targets. An action plan to cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and
raise revenues has recently been formulated and, subject to the agreement of
GOTN, will enable PTC to achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain
them thereafter.
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1185, which became effective in April 1982, is aimed at
providing shelter and urban services in Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar
Pradesh. Initial progress has been mixed. The project authority is hampered
by lack of adequate staff with proper management expertise, and land
acquisition disputes are causing delays in civil works. However, there has
been good progress in the slum-upgrading component, where improvements
benefitting about 3,700 households are nearing completion, and the
institution-strengthening aspects of the project are proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 23
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical works under the project are approximately 90% complete.
However, financial performance of the implementing agencies has been
generally poor, and it is likely that many of them may not be able to meet
the financial performance targets agreed with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 19B3
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Under Credit 842, construction is in progress on the Panjrapur
Treatment Plant, on several reservoirs, and on major water mains; and
procurement contracts are well advanced for the remaining project works.
Revised cost estimates have been prepared because of the delay in the start
of construction. The financial performance of the project authority has been
good.
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory, and the overall
financial performance of the project authorities has improved considerably.
Recent progress under Credit 899 is encouraging. Land acquisition
and construction are proceeding according to the revised implementation
schedule. Following a recent tariff revision, the project entities
financial performance should improve in FY83.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes are
nearly finalized. The financial performance of the Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board has been good. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the
construction of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the
city of Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from
the Rajasthan Canal instead. A consultant has been hired to analyze the
engineering and cost alternatives which would be fully assessed when the
alternative proposals are received in about one year's time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 23
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr.> o. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   gunjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April q4, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 23
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
and       credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Cr. No. 1269  Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: Expected November
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Delays in construction caused by initial shortages of cement caused
the Maharashtra I project to fall considerably behind schedule. For the
future, cement will be allotted to the project on a priority basis. In both
Maharashtra projects, increased attention is needed to improve the quality of
construction work in accordance with agreed and appropriate technical
standards, and to correcting the deficiEncies which are now present in the
systems.
The Karnataka project is experiEncing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
The Gujarat Medium project is substantially behind schedule, but
performance is expected to improve with the recent resolution of technical
design problems. A detailed review of the project in July established a
revised implementation schedule for the duration of the project. Lack of
proper management and planning in the Gujarat II project have contributed
to serious delays, which may contribute to considerable cost overruns. Due
to unresolved political problems, the Heran component (16% of project costs)
has been deleted. In March 1982, the Government of Gujarat sanctioned nearly
300 new staff positions in the Irrigation Department to be assigned
exclusively to the implementation of Woj:ld Bank projects. This is expected
to help improve progress in both Gujarat projects, although the project
authorities and State Government officials will need to devote considerable
time and effort if the problems are to be overcome and momentum
re-established.
Progress in canal and watercourse lining is beltind schedule in the
Punjab project due to shortages of cement and inadequate provision of
budgetary resources. The Government of Punjab has recently completed a



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 23
review of the project and a revised implementation plan for the duration of
the project is to be presented to IDA in November 1982.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project got off to a slow start
due to delays in selecting the sub-projects to be included. Eleven
sub-projects have now been appraised, and tendering is underway. The pace of
implementation, and the rate of disbursements, are therefore expected to
accelerate.  Initial progress under the Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project was delayed by serious start-up problems--among them, considerable
staffing vacancies in the project entity, use of inefficient and cumbersome
procurement procedures, delays in the appointment of consultants, and
deficiencies in technical designs of the irrigation works. The Government
of Madhya Pradesh is keely aware of these problems and is taking steps to
correct them. Project progress is expected to improve soon.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance units to
be set up in the Irrigation Department are not yet established. The
Government of Uttar Pradesh has been urged to fulfill this requirement
expeditiously. Project completion may be delayed by six months due to
initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 23
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; ITS$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; EffectivE Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of Novrember 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, i983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extenslon Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of May 5, 1982; Effective Date: July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed
extension system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging,
both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased
crop yields.
In Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects.
In Assam, after some delays field work continues to improve, the
field research stations are focussing their activities on local requirements,
and the agricultural university is providing good support to extension
training and research.
In West Bengal, a change in government brought a two-year hiatus in
project implementation, but the new State Government has reaffirmed its



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 23
support, and project activities have resumed. There has been considerable
progress in all project components. However, completion of the project in
accordance with its original objectives has required an extension of the
closing date.
Following the decision by the Government of Bihar (GOB) in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts there has
been considerable improvement. The project is being extended to a further
11 districts, bringing the total under implementation to 16 out of a possible
31. GOB has made provision for adequate budgetary resources for 1982-83, and
all extension and research staff required have been appointed, except among
village extension workers where some vacancies persist. GOB plans to
consolidate the extension system in the current 16 districts before extending
it to the entire State.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been
established and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension
recommendations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies.
In Kerala, project implementation has begun in three of eleven
districts and is operating satisfactorily. Further progress on the project
will require an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V
system to the remaining eight districts.
In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project implenentation is going
extremely well. Field activities by extension staff are generally well
organized and conducted. Recommendations are widely accepted by farmers.
Initial implementation of the Madhya Pradesh II project has been
slow due to the Government's delay in sanctioning necessary budget resources,
and transferring of Department of Agriculture staff to work in the extension
service. Field activities are being carried out in only two of the four
Year I districts, and have not yet begun in the seven Year II districts.
Considerable orientation in the objectives and procedures of the reformed
extension service is required by staff at all levels.
Early steps are being taken in the Andhra Pradesh project for the
commencement of training, monitoring and evaluation, and civil works
activities, and the procurement of equipment and vehicles. Field work has
yet to begin, pending the issuance of required governmental orders for the
transfer of staff to the reformed extension service.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continue satisfactorily. Implementation of the
small-holder component, the project's largest, is gaining momentum. The
banking program is functioning well, with the volume of loans sanctioned up
35% over the previous year. The three crumb rubber factories included in the
project are in operation and the cashewnut plantations are 85% complete.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 23
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC-s lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project requires improvement. in several areas. Civil works and
procurement are both somewhat behind schedule, the Project Unit needs
additional staff and there are technical deficiencies in the experimental
agricultural activities being carried out under the project. However, the
pace of sub-project approval during 1981-82 has been satisfactory and
implementation of the sub-projects in the States of Gujarat and Andhra
Pradesh is good.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment
opportunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project
was initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has accelerated recently and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1983
Construction of storage capacity of 1.5 million tons has been
completed, with another 300,000 tons in progress. GOI-s proposals to delete
the bulk storage component and provide additional bag storage capacity have
been accepted by IDA. A one-year extension of the closing date has been
granted with the possibility of a further extension on the basis of progress
achieved during this fiscal year.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 23
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Implementation of Credit 871 has
slowed down over the last six months due to shortages in cement supplies and
inadequate project coordination at the State level. Implementation of
Credit 1146 was initially slow due to poor preparation in most States in the
pre-proiect year. However, since December 1981 the project has gained some
momentum with about 1300 godowns and 40 cold storage units now sanctioned for
construction. Under both projects, the shortage of cement presents a serious
bottleneck; and construction costs have risen considerably, which may
necessitate a reduction in the total number of storage units to be
constructed. NCDC and the State agencies concerned have resolved to do what
is required to speed up implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near
completion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement
improvements in their management support of the dairy producers unions as
required under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Credit 522 project has proceeded well and is excellently managed.
The processing facilities have been completed and are operational. However,



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 23
the project authorities postponed formation of the DCSs until the processing
facilities and marketing studies were ccmpleted. Extension work is now
underway (550 DCSs are already established), but the credit closing date has
been extended by nine months to allow for creation of the total 1200 DCSs
planned, together with their complementary extension and training services.
Under Credit 824, the Operation Flood II Agreements, which allow for
the establishment of federations of DCSs, have now been signed by most of the
participating States. The major obstacle to the project at the moment is the
delay in providing loans to States due to their reluctance to issue the
guarantees required by the IDC for commitment of funds. This is currently
under review by the project authorities.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed ProjEct; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: DecEmber 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. Plans for the 24 sEed development farms are complete and
production has commenced. Procurement is satisfactory, with six of ten ICB
tenders awarded and two more in process. Most of the seed processing plants
have been sanctioned for construction, and hence disbursements are expected
to improve with the inception of civil works. It is expected that all works
under both projects will be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cc.shew planting and plantation
improvement programs in the States of Arndhra Pradesh, E'arnataka, Kerala and
Orissa. The planting and improvement programs have made very good progress
and the area covered is ahead of appraisal estimates. There is every
expectation that the project will fulfill its objective of significantly
increasing cashew production and improving the incomes of the farmers. In
Orissa there is already evidence of a significant improvement in the farmers
welfare as a result of participation in the project.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation contintues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 23
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Serious staff shortages in the Department of Sericulture have caused
inadequate research and extension work and prevented increases in the
production of blvoltine silk, one of the project's principal objectives.
This situation is expected to improve soon, as the Chief Secretary,
Government of Karnataka, is endeavoring to streamline the cumbersome
recruitment procedures to permit more rapid hiring of staff. All other
project components are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
There has been sufficient progress in civil works and the acquisition
of equipment to enable 11 of the 17 apple packing houses and all seven walnut
processing centers to become operational by October 1982. Therefore, it is
most urgent that the project implementing agency fill their positions of
financial and marketing directors in order to formulate appropriate financial
and marketing strategies for their first operating season with the new
facilities. The training program under the project is progressing well, but
research activities are behind schedule due to delays in the appointment of
consultants.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study completed in November 1979 established the feasibility of
developing a forest-based industry in Bastar district. However, following a
GOI review of the study, it was decided that conversion of the natural forest
to pine plantations, as proposed, would not be compatible with the
Government-s social, economic, and environmental policies for the area.
Further project activities have therefore ceased. The project is expected to
close on schedule in December 1982.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 23
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1286  Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of SeptembEr 7, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected December 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Under the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat projects very impressive results
have been achieved in the tree plantaticn programs. However, both projects
suffer from serious understaffing, especially among forestry extension
workers, and inefficiences in the managEment and organization of the social
forestry programs. A special review to be carried out jointly by GOI and
IDA in November 1982, is designed to address these problems.
Initial implementation of the West Bengal project, which became
effective in April 1982, has been satisiactory. Most senior staff are in
position, the monitoring and evaluation unit has been established, and
physical planting so far has exceeded appraisal report targets.
Initial project activities are underway on Credit 1286, signed on
September 7, 1982.
Ln. No. 1897  Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the u?per catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and Eloods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, and feasibility studies of
other watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1933
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries 'Iroject; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective -Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This has now been resolved, and harbor
works should be finished by mid-1984. Village roads and water supply
components of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. In Andhra Pradesh,
the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was officially opened in February 1982;
harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnan are progressing satisfactorily
following the resolution of design problems.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 23
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; USS20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is satisfactory. The Central and State
Project Units are functioning efficiently. Detailed designs for the first
two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States have been
completed. The pond improvement schemes are progressing rapidly, with large
numbers of loan applications having been submitted to the participating banks
for approval of financing.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child morbidity and mortality, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility in three districts in
Andhra Pradesh and in six districts in Uttar Pradesh. Implementation of the
project is proceeding well. Marked improvement has occurred in several
components especially construction, now that cement is being allocated to the
project on a priority basis. As a consequence, disbursements are
accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in Uttar Pradesh has
been appointed and the training program is well underway.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Following an impressive start in one test block where malnourishment
rates fell by 50% during the test period, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks in Madurai District. Progress in civil works
is now satisfactory despite early shortages of cement and the construction
work for the training facilities is to be completed this year.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND HARYANA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Haryana.
(c)  Date of first preseatation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
January 1982 and May 1982, respectively.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1982.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
December 1982.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
March 1983.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOH would establish, within specified dates:
(i) Sprinkler Irrigation Associations (para 43);
(ii) Special Projects Units within the Irrigation
Department (para 52).
(iii) Shareholders Maintenance Committees (para 53); and
(iv)  an Appraisal and Monitoring Cell within the Public
Health Branch of the PWD (para 54).
(v) water charges collected would be sufficient to
cover full 0 & M costs and a reasonable portion of
capital costs (para 63).



IBRD 16554
705'         "   CHINA    9   SUTLEJ, BEAS, AND RAVI RIVERS DEVELOPMENT                                                                                 JULY 1982
AISAN_6 "'p       ,'          U    AND BHAKRA-NANGAL COMPLEX
"  HARYA   DeIh I "            SCHEMATIlC                 'PROPOSED THO N DAM0
'0'-L -.  NVOT TO SCALE                                  'o.:ec)PANDOF
-/1-11                I     '-P'.j-tI            DAM
SANGLADISSi                          DAM |PjR
o                             ~~~~~~~~~~~PODNG
.2                            20                                                                                         .  \              HIMACHAL
NANMAL                          CHANDIGARH '(    =              PRADESH
ROPAR DAM,        BHDAM                                  C handigarh
FEROZEPUJR
o0                            10D              HARIKE
SRI LANKA                  D
Inset A         ao            90' Inset B                                                                             =.'
__________________  ______________________________________                                                    ' '      Ambali             Ta/ewala
RL2160\ 
PUNJAB                              N.8r\                        D/l   TAJEWALA
PU JA-fAxfflft    Dodupur42    HEADWORKS
/    .Dde .                     -,                                               L
RAATA 8,11                                                                                                                      /n_,  d Tin  IPoi
INDIA   J    t                 .            /    7_ ,5 r-    '   AKoothal o'           ua'seoc ARA*           TA
HARYANA1IRRIGATION  11 PROJECT        /             A'>Hissor '. -Tohana  7,i                                                    P    D
~KarnalJ
Sirsa
jf          AKa,6(aI/                                 N        ~~~~~~~~~Munak'
PROJECT AREA AND IRRIGATION COMPONENTSf>                        .                        ,.                                 A.--  .......... -tor
Cormmana atreas:                              -~-                    ' 9-_    .                          i       '       j
-  -Command area boLnoaries                                                       -       -,.                             'Sn\t
Llft commands (SEWANI. JUll%                                                            Rrohtkn  ,                      Sonepat 
RA GATHA     commands   AAKRAWESTERN  AMUNA'
r-----] Proposed gravity pilot propect areas         (                             @                     -' 3h9 -              1      _
7_    Horyant on   tubewell areas:)             3hiai*>.t  
Haryana IL                                  q                                               .AÆ'<                         New Delhi
Number of tubewells in each area             ._                                                                r        . >-    .
,   Proaosed wireless stations                         'U TD-T.                                                                                A
Existing canals                                                                                              r DELHI H
Canal under construchion                                                                                   G\urgaoT h ,1
I    Dams                               l".-. <
Main roads                                                                                                  -;                         ,-
e           vivÆ   National capital                  - |-                           <                                                                        2
Æ     State capital                      )'                                                    Rewar0.r   :-               Sohno        
o    Cites towns                                                   -                           Re-1 .∞']
State boundaries .f.J.
--  - CInternational boundaries                                           &?       t' '                    $-    -                                 ,
KioeroetLs o      20        40       60        80       100 S NJ                  !                                                                 r
M    ile    s 0     20             40             60 AK W_ E                                                                                 FER  A
ThiNef nopna een poetJared y Me Woeflasneesrayneeoh/s.'4in fothf ceneen:ence                                  I                   2>5i\tr
oepaodes   go  ovte  pilo t o t projtachetd  rhe o ees ent,o srea and the
affdiatge anyttdgienr t the legal  eavs : of tmY renore  or any endoOsen,eni or                             9.
tenumber of ubewelb s in eachar



