10 =llC Ag L1
OFF~IIL   ICREDIT NUMBER 1319 IN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Haryana Irrigation II Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1319 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
INDIA, acting by its President, (he einafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Haryana, the State of Haryana has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Haryana;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreemer , unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms d fined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings the ein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "HARYANA" means the State of Haryana, acting by its
Governor, a State of India;


﻿-2-
(b) "HSMITC" means    the  Haryana  State Minor Irrigation
(Tubewells) Corporation Ltd., a public sector corporation
wholly-owned by Haryana established and organized under the laws
of the Borrower;
(c) "Project Area" means the area of about 2.3 M ha cover-
ing the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal Systems and of about
102,000 ha of the Jui and Sewani Pump-lift Systems, in Haryana;
(d)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Haryana of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes the schedule to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(e) "Shareholders Maintenance Committee" means each of the
associations to be established on each watercourse by the farmer
beneficiaries of such watercourse pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement;
(f)  "Sprinkler Irrigation Association" means each of the
associations to be established by the farmer beneficiaries of the
respective sprinkler irrigation system pursuant to tha provisions
of Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement; and
(g) "Chak" means the cultivable command area irrigated by a
watercourse.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred     to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred thirty-nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
139,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; aad (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. Thg Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
I and July 1 commencing July 1, 1993, and ending January 1, 2033,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause Haryana to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Haryana to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to Haryana in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the pu,rposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Haryana shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; and
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Haryana will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice


﻿-5-
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and Haryana.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Haryana, and is legally
binding upon Haryana in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date, -&a"{t c-' > 1983, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Stion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
New Delhi


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) for Part A           59,000,000        70%
of the
Project
(b) for Parts B          46,700,000        70%
and C of
the Project
(c) for other            17,300,000        70%
Parts of
the Project
(2) Equipment, goods,          7,600,000        100% of foreign
materials and                               expenditures,
vehicles                                    100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory, and
70% of other
local expendi-
tures
(3) Research and               4,000,000        100%
Development,
Training, Tech-
nical Services
and Monitoring
and Evaluation
Studies
(4) Unallocated                4,400,000
TOTAL      139,000,000


﻿-8-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall   be made   in  respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 3,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and
(2) on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after February 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures  in  order   that  further  withdrawals   under  such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿9
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Modernization of the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal
Systems
(i) Lining of about 23 million square meters (about 250
million square feet) of existing canals (equivalent to about
2,900 km of branch, distributory and minor canals) in the Bhakra
and Western Yamuna Canal Systems, including when needed,
construction of new parallel lined channels.
(ii) Improvement and modernization of the Bhakra and Western
Yamuna Canal Systems, including the replacement of canal regu-
lators, installation and operation of water measuring devices,
remodelling of falls and watercourse outlets, and construction of
ancillary facilities.
(iii) Improvement and modernization of the communication
system in the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal Systems, including
the installation and operation of the necessary base station
two-way radio sets.
Part B:   Modernization of Watercourses
Lining and installation of minor irrigation structures for
about 6 million lineal meters (about 20 million lineal feet) of
existing watercourses (equivalent to about 1,700 watercourses) in
the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal Systems, and construction of
about 1 million lineal meters (about 3 million lineal feet) and
installation of minor irrigation structures for new watercourses
(equivalent to about 200 watercourses) in the Jui and Sewani
Pump-lift Systems.
Part C:   Augmentation Tubewells
Construction and electrification of about 325 deep tubewells
together with necessary link channels to augment surface water
supply in the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal Systems.
Part D:   Sprinkler Irrigation
Installation,  operation   and  maintenance   of  about   100
sprinkler irrigation sets in the Bhiwani, Sirsa and Hissar
Districts of Haryana.


﻿- 11 -
Part E:   Village Water Supply
Construction of about 120 water supply schemes to serve
about 360 villages in the Project Area.
Part F:   Village Access Roads
Construction of about 196 km of village access roads to
serve about 111 villages in the Project Area.
Part G:   Training
Manpower training for in-service and new recruit staff of
Haryana's Irrigation Department.
Part H:   Research and development of irrigation infrastructure,
including pilot projects, experiments, studies and provision of
technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  J         day of __       ,
198 %.
FOR SECRETARY


