Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7186-ALB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 18.3 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
November 13, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 7, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Lek
US$1         143.7 Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Leks per US$1
1996         1995            1994             1993
104.5         92.8           94.7             102.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC  -  Albania Rehabilitation Credit
BOA   -  Bank of Albania
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEO   -  Chief Executive Officer
ESAF  -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU   -  European Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOA   -  Government of Albania
IDA   -  International Development Association
ILO   -  International Labor Organization
IMF  -  International Monetaty Fund
MOLSA   -  Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NCB  -  National Commercial Bank
NE  -  Ndihme Ekonomike (Social Assistance)
NES  -  National Employment Service
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD  -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
RCB  -  Rural Commercial Bank
SB  -  Savings Bank
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SlI  -  Social Insurance Institute
VAT  -  Value Added Tax
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Arntraud Hartnann, ECCO2
Sector Directors: Christopher Lovelace, ECSHD; Lajos Bokros,
ECSPF; Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Team Leaders Helena Tang and John Innes



FOR OFFlICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY                               .................................................................1
1.   INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................3
II   ALBANIA'S RECENT CRISIS ..................................................................................3
III. DONOR RESPONSE STRATEGY ..................................................................................4
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM AND WORLD BANK SUPPORT .....5
V. THIE PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT .14
OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE .14
RELATIONSHIP TO CAS.14
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS.15
MHONITORING OF THE ARC.15
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT.15
BENEFITS AND RISKS.15
RET. REC OMMENDATION ...........................................                                                 16
A NNEX        I - LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ...........................................                       17
A    NNEX 2-  P   OLICY  M  ATRIX    ........................................... .23
A NNEX 3- TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING SES  ...........................................S.                        25
ANNEX 4 - STATUS OF BA        NK GROUP OPERATIONS ............................................ 27
ANNEX 5 -             KEY ECONOMIC INDICATOR SS                        ...........................................  29
ANNEX 6 -  AL        BANIA  AT  A GLANC   E.                       ...........................................33
MAP SECTION                                    ............................................35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                  Albania
Guarantor:                 Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies:     Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
Beneficiary:               Not Applicable
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    SDR 18.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity
Onlending Terms:           Not Applicable
Net Present Value:         Not Applicable
Project ID Number:         AL-PE-53357
Map:                       Number 28467



I



- 3 -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Credit to Albania for SDR 18.3 million. The Credit will be in one tranche in SDR 18.3
million (US$25 million equivalent) and will be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of forty years.
The Credit will provide financial support for the first set of measures for the Government's economic
recovery program, including the resolution of the pyramid schemes, reform of the banking sector,
strengthening of the social safety net to support those impoverished by the crisis and promoting
employment.
II.    ALBANIA'S RECENT CRISIS
2.     Following an impressive transition record with real growth reaching around 9 percent for four
consecutive years between 1993 and 1996, and inflation tamed from 240 percent per annum at end-1992
to 6 percent at end- 1995, Albania descended into near anarchy and civil war in the early months of 1997,
triggered by the collapse of the pyramid schemes.
3.    The pyramid schemes, some of which started out as companies with real investments while
others were pyramid scheines from the start, mushroomed to enormous dimensions in the course of 1996.
Total liabilities of these schemes, including accrued interest (which escalated to extremely high rates
ranging from 8 to 50 percent per month shortly before the collapse), are estimated to have reached
around 50 percent of GDP. The collapse of the schemes began in late 1996 and accelerated in the early
months of 1997. Widespread rioting and civil unrest ensued.
4.    The civil disorder led to over 1,500 deaths, widespread looting, including the theft of over half a
million guns and major damage to buildings and infrastructure. The general lack of security which
prevailed severely disrupted economic and social activities. The arrival of the multinational protection
force in mid-April helped improve the security situation, but large parts of the country, especially in the
south, remained outside of the Government control.
5.    The economic fall-out from the crisis was severe. While agriculture was little affected, supply-
side disruptions reduced output in construction and industry. The loss of wealth in the failed financial
schemes depressed domestic demand. International trade slowed markedly, remittances from abroad
(which had swelled to as much as 16 percent of GDP in 1996) dropped sharply, and foreign aid dried up.
Output is expected to fall by about 8 percent in 1997. By end-June 1997, the Lek had depreciated by 42
percent from its end- 1996 level, although the Government did manage to avoid depletion of the foreign
exchange reserves, which were maintained at around US$280 million. Reflecting the sharp currency
depreciation and the supply shocks, inflation rose from 17 percent during 1996 to 28 percent during the
first half of 1997.



-4 -
6.    There was already prior substantial backsliding in fiscal consolidation in 1996 when the
domestically-financed deficit' rose to around 10.5 percent of GDP. The civil unrest brought on by the
collapse of the pyramid schemes worsened the fiscal situation as fiscal revenues fell sharply because of
the poor security situation, especially in the border areas. During March and April 1997, revenues from
the main sources -- VAT, customs duties and excise taxes which together made up over 70 percent of all
tax revenues in 1996 -- dropped to one-third of the pre-crisis intake. Since then, there has been some
improvement in revenue collection due to: restoration of security to the capital Tirana and the major port
Durres with the arrival of the multinational forces; cooperation with neighboring Former Yugoslavia
Republic of Macedonia and Greece; and the establishment of a pre-arrival intelligence system, with the
assistance of the EU, which provides information on cargo imports from Italy and Greece to the Albanian
tax authorities. By mid-1997, revenue collection had risen from one-third to one-half of the pre-crisis
level. Notwithstanding this improvement, the domestically-financed deficit is estimated to have risen to
around 14 percent of GDP in the first half of 1997.
7.    A new Government took office on July 28 and immediately initiated a return towards normalcy.
Within days of the Government taking office, the new parliament lifted the state of emergency and
passed legislation perrnitting administrators from foreign accounting firms to be appointed to audit and
wind up the pyramid schemes. The Government has initiated strong measures to restore security in the
country, including reorganizing and retraining the police force with the help of western donors, and
collecting looted arms from the civilians. These measures have enabled the Government to regain
control of major highways and cities, notwithstanding the departure of the multinational protection force
in mid-August 1997. Although security along the borders is yet to be fully restored, cooperation with the
neighboring countries has led to improvement in tax collection. As a result of these efforts, economic
activity and trade have started to recover. By late October, the Lek had appreciated by 28 percent from
its pre-election level.
M. DONOR RESPONSE STRATEGY
8.    The donor community has moved rapidly to assist Albania in the preparation of a Recovery
program outlining priority areas for policy reforms and investments in the post-crisis period. The Bank
took the lead in drafting a paper that was completed jointly by the EC and EBRD, in consultation with
the IMF: Directions for Recovery and Growth - An Initial Assessment. The Recovery Program,
structured around three main themes (governance, institution building and civil society; economic and
social policies; and reviving of economic activities), has been designed to put the country back on the
path of sustainable economic growth, and it was endorsed by the donor community at the Rome
Conference on July 31. At the Rome Conference, it was also agreed that a Donors' Conference would be
held as soon as the new Government reached an agreement on a suitable program with the IMF.
9.     Albania's Recovery Program focuses on urgent macroeconomic stabilization issues, it revisits
medium-term adjustment and sector strategies that were "abandoned" in the growing political turmoil of
1996 and 1997, and it also focuses on the dire need for institutional strengthening. The Program
envisages two stages for the country's recovery. The first stage involves implementation of a set of
The focus on the domestically-financed deficit, rather than on the total deficit, reflects in part the fact that most
external assistance to Albania has had a direct import counterpart, and in part extremely weak data on foreign-
financed spending. Institution of an external debt management capability is an important element of the IMF's
post-conflict emergency assistance program. The expectation is that by the time the ESAF is in place, it will
be possible to move to a total deficit concept.



initial measures to undertake macroeconomic stabilization, and a limited number of high priority
structural reforms. The second stage of recovery will be based on a three-year ESAF arrangement,
which is expected to follow the Emergency Assistance in early 1998. The Government gave a strong
commitment for negotiating an ESAF-supported program next year. As customary, the comprehensive
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which will accompany the ESAF will provide the main conditionality of
the second stage of donor assistance to Albania after the crisis. It is expected to deal with remaining
structural reforms in the financial sector; fiscal management, including further customs and tax
measures; public investment and expenditure management; public administration and civil service
reforms; judicial reforms, institution building, remaining privatization issues, and other steps to improve
the climate for doing business by the private sector.
10.   After all the prerequisites for post-crisis assistance were met, and the Government reached
substantive agreement with the Fund on the Emergency Assistance program, a Donors' Conference was
called jointly by the EC and the Bank in Brussels on October 22. The main purpose of the Conference
was to seek pledges from Albania's key donors for funding required to carry out the Recovery Program.
The Conference successfully elicited donors pledges of some $100 million for extraordinary balance of
payments and budgetary support, $80 million for immediate sector investment and technical assistance
priorities, and more than half of the $887 million required to finance medium-term sector investment and
technical assistance program identified by the Government, EC, the Bank and EBRD. Donors also
pledged additional contributions for the technical assistance program to help wind up the pyramid
schemes.
11.   The Bank announced its own proposed assistance to Albania in support of recovery, including
$900,000 for the technical assistance program for the pyramid schemes which is cofinanced by a Trust
Fund supported by seven donors; $25 million in new balance of payments support under the proposed
Credit; and $32 million in proposed investment and technical assistance programs (Recovery Program
Technical Assistance Project, Private Industry Recovery Project and a Second Health Project). The
Bank is also contributing to the funding of the balance of payment requirements through second tranches
of two previously approved adjustment operations, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit -- ASAC
(AL-PE-8256) and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit EFSAC (AL-PE-8257). The
second tranche of the ASAC is being readied for release, and the release of the second tranche of the
EFSAC will follow shortly. These two tranches will, together with cofinancing of $8.5 million from the
OECF, provide $20.5 million.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM AND
WORLD BANK SUPPORT
12.   The proposed Rehabilitation Credit supports the first set of structural measures to be
implemented by the Government in parallel with an IMF post-conflict Emergency Assistance Program
and includes measures to alleviate the increased poverty generated by the crisis. Specifically, the
proposed Credit will support: (i) resolution of the pyramid schemes; (ii) reform of the banking system;
(iii) strengthening of the social safety net; and (iv) employment promotion.
A. The Macroeconomic Framework
13.   The Government's key macroeconomic objectives for the remainder of 1997 and for 1998 are to
ensure a steady recovery of output, while reducing inflation to moderate levels and maintaining official
reserves at their current, broadly adequate, levels. The targets are for a moderation of inflation to around



- 6 -
15 to 20 percent for the second half of 1997 (implying inflation of around 50 to 55 percent for 1997 as a
whole) with a reduction to a range of 15 to 20 percent in 1998; a recovery of GDP growth to around 12
percent in 1998; and maintaining foreign exchange reserves at around US$300 million (around 3.5
months of imports). The Government plans to meet these objectives by taking strong fiscal actions,
adopting an appropriately tight monetary stance, accompanied by a flexible exchange rate, while at the
same time supporting the emphasis on achieving social goals.
14.   Fiscal Policy. The Government's fiscal measures aim to reduce the domestically-financed fiscal
deficit for 1997 to around 13 percent of GDP (compared with an estimated 16 percent of GDP for this
year if no measures are taken). As a first step, the Parliament approved a new package of revenue
measures on September 16, 1997. The most important measure in the package is raising the VAT rate
from 12.5 percent to 20 percent. The other measures include raising national fees in airports, ports and
roads, doubling the rental income tax rate for shops, warehouses, and land, and the prepayment of excise
taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, all to be effective October 1, 1997. Other revenue measures
that the Government will take before the end of 1997 include raising the price ceiling on oil by-products,
and removing the customs duty and VAT exemptions on wheat and investment goods.
15.   Aside from these measures to raise taxes, the Government also recognizes the importance of
strengthening tax and customs administration in its revenue enhancement efforts. In this regard, the
Government: (i) established an anti-smuggling task force and a reference file for customs valuation to
replace the system of minimum import prices; (ii) will, by the end of 1997, check the majority of import
declaration against the customs valuation reference file; set up a large taxpayers' office in Tirana; and
simplify small business tax and finalize a new customs code; and (iii) will, on January 1, 1998, raise the
VAT threshold to an annual turnover of Lek 5 million (US$32,000). All the revenue measures together
are expected to raise fiscal savings by about 0.6 percent of GDP for the remainder of 1997 and around
2.3 percent of GDP for 1998.
16.   On the expenditure side, the spending limits in the original 1997 budget were already tight,
including no nominal increases in wages, pensions and social benefits, when inflation for the year will
probably exceed 50 percent. The planned expenditure savings for the remainder of 1997 which are
supported by the six-month IMF program are substantial (about 2 percent of GDP), and are to be
achieved through: (i) a reduction of personnel expenditures by leaving vacancies unfilled; (ii) a reduction
in the number of public sector employees by about 1,000; and (iii) other savings in operations and
maintenance, domestically-financed investment and the reserve fund while protecting expenditures on
health and education by maintaining them at the earlier budgeted levels.
17.    In 1998, the Government is committed to reducing the public sector workforce by 10 to 15
percent, with a front-loaded retrenchment of 10,000 workers by end-March 1998 as part of a
comprehensive civil service reform. This measure, together with planned moderate increases in average
wages and pensions (broadly in line with the expected inflation to prevent their further erosion in real
terms during 1998), and other measures as necessary (to be negotiated with the IMF under the ESAF
Arrangement) should help contain the domestically-financed deficit to around 9 to 10 percent of GDP,
while leaving room for a much-needed temporary expansion of the social safety net (see section below
on Strengthening the Social Safety Net).
18.   Monetary and Exchange Rate Policies. The Bank of Albania (BOA) will support the inflation
reduction effort by maintaining an appropriate tight monetary stance, including the adjustment of interest
rates. The BOA will apply credit ceilings on the state-owned banks which will be undergoing divestiture
and restructuring (see section below on Reform of the Banking System). The BOA will continue with



- 7-
the flexible exchange rate regime which has served the country well since the beginning of the transition
process.
19.   Balance of Payments. The balance of payments position will continue to be difficult. The sharp
import compression that took place in the first half of 1997 contributed to some improvement in the
current account, although this will not be sustainable, as reconstruction will require a large volume of
critical imports, export receipts will recover only slowly as security improves and production facilities
are rebuilt, and it will take time for remittance flows to return to nortnal levels. The current account
deficit is expected to be around 9 percent of GDP in 1997 and deteriorate to around 14 percent of GDP in
1998. The large current account deficit can be financed by official and private capital inflows only to a
certain extent, as a major improvement in the latter will have to await the return of investor confidence.
Albania will therefore be dependent on exceptional financing from the donor community to fill its
financing gaps in the next few years.
B.    Key Structural Policies
20.   The enormous proportions to which the pyramid schemes developed can be attributed to a
variety of reasons, including: an unsophisticated public; the widespread belief among Albanians that
they were investing in companies engaged in highly profitable (albeit likely illegal) activities; and a
(previous) Government that was at best complacent about the schemes. However, the inability of the
banking system to intermediate savings, which led to the emergence of first a legitimate and then a
fraudulent informal market, and an inadequate and poorly enforced legal and regulatory framework, are
also important contributory factors. The proposed Credit will support the Government's first set of
measures to reform these areas, specifically the winding up of the pyramid schemes, initial steps in
reforming the banking sector, strengthening the social safety net to protect the poorest and measures to
promote employment.
Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes
21.   The Govermnent is committed to the resolution of the pyramid scheme problem, which is a
prerequisite for stabilization and recovery. Within days of taking office, the new Government effected
the passage of a law that allows for the appointment of administrators and auditors to take control of the
companies that had operated pyramid schemes and to manage the recovery and distribution of their
assets to depositors. This was followed by the appointment of interim local administrators for the
companies which have not yet been declared bankrupt, and initiation of the selection process for external
administrators for all the identified schemes. In early November, external administrators were appointed
for winding up the companies which have not been declared bankrupt. By the end of the year, external
administrators will be appointed for all the remaining schemes. The external administrators will be
responsible for tracing, recovering, and distributing the assets of the schemes; and ensuring that there is
transparency in the resolution of the companies' affairs including the conducting of audits by firms of
international repute. The Government has made it clear that those who deposited in the schemes will be
reimbursed from recovered assets only, and that no public sector resources will be used to compensate
them. The proposed Credit supports the following measures in resolving the pyramid schemes.
Prior to Board presentation:
* Appoint external administrators for the four pyramid schemes which have not been declared
bankrupt;



-8-
Follow-up measure:
* Appoint external administrators for all the remaining companies by end-December 1997.
22.   To provide financing for the administrators and auditors for the winding down of pyramid
schemes, a special trust fund has been created. Financing for this fund is being provided by the US,
European Union, Italy, Greece, Denmark, Switzerland and IDA (under the ongoing Technical Assistance
Credit AL-PE-8268).
Reform of the Banking Sector
23.   The lack of a functioning formal banking sector has contributed to the mushrooming of the
pyramid schemes. Reform of the banking sector is crucial not only to prevent a recurrence of pyramid
schemes, but to promote the efficient intermediation of financial resources towards productive uses, and
hence support long term economic growth.
24.   The formal banking sector is dominated by three state-owned banks, the Rural Commercial Bank
(RCB), the National Commercial Bank (NCB) and the Savings Bank (SB), all of which are insolvent, and
to date have engaged in only minimal financial intermediation for the private sector. The three state
banks together account for about 92 percent of total deposits and 88 percent of total assets in the banking
sector2; while the stock of outstanding loans to the private sector amounted to only about 4 percent of
GDP3. The rest of the banking sector consists of six very small foreign and joint venture banks which
have no branch network, and are engaged only minimally in domestic credit intermediation, as they are
focused mainly on foreign exchange transactions and trade financing.
25.   Of the three state banks, the RCB is the only one that has been engaged in substantial lending to
the private sector, although not very successfully as collection rates have been very low. The other two
state-owned banks have been mainly involved in financing the public sector and the budget, the latter
through purchases of treasury bills which at the margin could be a loss-making activity for the banks4.
One of the major reasons for the state banks being predominantly engaged in lending to the government
is the high credit risk of lending to the private sector. An estimated 80 percent of the portfolio of the
state-owned banks could be classified as doubtful. The poor performance of the state banks could in
large part be attributed to the fact that they belong to the public domain and act accordingly, that is, in
the manner of state agencies which have soft budget constraints and non-commercial behavior. The
banks have not been aggressive in loan collection, and the legal and judicial process makes it difficult to
collect. Their financial positions have worsened since the crisis, as loan collection, low to begin with,
has dropped even further, in part because of the widespread disruption of economic activities and the
general breakdown in governance resulting in even more debtors not paying back their loans.
26.   The banking system is in need of fundamental reforms to get commercial banking started. To
achieve this, actions are needed in the following areas. First, there is a need to increase rapidly
competition in and enhance perfornance of the banking system through greater private sector
participation. This can be achieved through privatization or liquidation of the state-owned banks coupled
2   As of end-May 1997.
3   As of end 1996.
4   In September 1997, the BOA had a mandatory floor interest rate of 37 percent on savings deposits for the three
state-owned banks and a reserve requirement of 10 percent, while the 3-month T-Bill rate was 35 percent.



- 9-
with the introduction of new privately-owned and prudentially sound banks. Second, there is a need to
provide adequate institutional and infrastructural support to ensure that the newly privatized banks and
potential new entrants into the system will conduct banking businesses in accordance with commercial
principles. This will include: (i) strengthening the legal and judicial framework including amendments
to and strict enforcement of the Banking Law (particularly with regard to the issuance of bank licenses),
the law on collateral and the Bankruptcy Law; (ii) strengthening banking supervision through increasing
the number of qualified bank supervisors in the BOA, further development and implementation of
prudential regulations in accordance with intemational standards, full implementation of international
accounting standards, and strengthening of on-site supervision; and (iii) developing and strengthening
the financial infrastructure including the payments system, accounting and audits.
27.   The Government's reform  program  for the state-owned banks involves restructuring,
privatization and liquidation. In view of the mounting losses of all three banks and very low likelihood
that the banks can be turned into profitable banks engaged in commercial lending, the Govemment has
decided to liquidate the RCB by the middle of next year; prepare the NCB for privatization or liquidation
by the end of 1998 if privatization is not successful; and define a strategy for the SB which will tum the
SB into a "narrow" bank which will not undertake any lending until the SB is privatized. The
Govemment will also establish a work-out agency/resolution trust in which the bad assets of the three
banks will be placed. The work-out agency/resolution trust will be responsible for the collection of bad
loans. To facilitate the privatization process, the Government will also secure the necessary amendments
to the privatization law(s) for state-owned banks in order to delegate the necessary authority from the
legislative to the executive branch for approval of such transactions. The govemment will seek the
agreement of foreign donors to cease intermediating their commercial credit lines through RCB, NCB
and SB, and will not accept any new foreign donor commercial credit lines to be intermediated through
the state-owned banks. The program for each bank is as follows.
28.   Rural Commercial Bank. The Government and the BOA have already frozen all lending, new
capital expenditures and new business activities for the RCB. In late October, the Government appointed
an Albanian administrator/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for the RCB who will liquidate the bank.
Liquidation of the RCB will involve placement of deposits in the other state banks or the private banks
backed by good assets (cash, treasury bills and foreign deposits) to these banks, and placement of bad
assets in the work-out agency/resolution trust which will be established by the government. The
difference in value between the deposits and the assets transferred will be made up either by a
government paper, or a paper backed by government guarantee, the terms of which to be negotiated
between the banks and the Government. Should the RCB still remain operative by end-January 1998, the
Government will appoint a foreign expert who will take on the position of CEO, assume full control of
the bank and liquidate the bank no later than June 1998. The present policy of no lending by RCB will
be maintained.
29.   National Commercial Bank. To prepare the NCB for privatization, the Government will enter
into a governance contract by end-January 1998 with a foreign expert who will be the administrator/CEO
of the bank. The foreign CEO will assume full control of the bank and will prepare the bank for
privatization. In the interim, to minimize continuing losses of the bank, the Government has appointed
an Albanian administrator/CEO in late October to carry out holding actions on the bank, including: (i)
adoption of stringent cost control and reduction measures including rationalization and improvement of
operations and reduction of staff; (ii) no new net lending - that is, NCB can only use proceeds from
amortization of outstanding loans for new lending, or in other words impose a zero incremental credit
ceiling on NCB; and (iii) renewed efforts to collect from agency delinquent borrowers and work out the
bank's bad loan portfolios. Bad loans will be placed in the work-out agency/resolution trust once that is



- 10-
established. The foreign CEO will continue with the holding actions on the bank while also attempting
to privatize the bank. The books of NCB will be audited. There will be periodic evaluation of progress
achieved by the bank against time-bound, quantifiable and monitorable performance criteria. If the NCB
is not privatized, it will be liquidated by end- 1998.
30.   Savings Bank. At the end of 1996, the Government implemented a branch rationalization
program and transferred 26 out of 35 branches of the RCB, and 24 out of 32 branches of NCB to the SB,
without addressing the underlying problems in these banks and without undertaking the necessary
preparatory work prior to the transfers. Many of the bad loans of RCB and NCB were transferred to the
SB, and as a result the bad assets of the SB have increased tremendously. As the SB has very limited
experience in commercial lending, it has little capacity to recover bad loans. There is little prospect for
the SB to become a fully functioning universal bank which would perform lending operations on a
successful and sustainable basis. Therefore, the Government plans to convert the SB into a "narrow"
bank that will not engage in any lending. As a first step, the Government will reduce the credit ceiling
for the SB to Leks 200m. for the last quarter of 1997, down from Leks 270m. already imposed on the
bank by the Bank of Albania. The Government will also enter into a governance contract by end-January
1998 with the management of the SB to convert the bank into a "narrow" bank and to prepare it for
privatization. By the same time, the Government will also enter into a contract with a foreign bank to
assist in this undertaking. The bad assets of the SB will be placed in the work out agency/resolution
trust. In addition, the books of the SB will be audited. The SB also performs important fiscal functions
for the Treasury. These fiscal functions of the bank will be separated out within the bank in order to get
a clearer picture of the cost and profitability of the bank's businesses, and the Government will
compensate the bank for the costs of these services rendered for the Treasury. The Government will seek
to privatize the bank by end- 1999.
31.   The proposed credit will support the following specific measures in the Government's bank
reform program.
Prior to Board Presentation:
*  Appoint qualified Albanian administrators/CEOs for the NCB and RCB based on terms of
reference agreed with the World Bank;
* Approve terms of reference agreed with the World Bank for the external
administrators/CEOs who will assume full control of NCB and RCB;
*  Put in place zero incremental credit ceiling for NCB;
*  Maintain restriction of no lending for RCB;
*  Impose credit ceiling of Leks 200 m. for SB for the last quarter of 1997;
* Approve terms of reference for audits of NCB and SB by accounting firms of international
repute;
*  Seek agreement from foreign donors to cease intermediating their commercial credit lines
through the RCB, NCB and SB;
*  Accept no new foreign donor commercial credit lines for the RCB, NCB and SB;
Follow-up Measures:
* Appoint by end-January 1998 external administrator/CEO for RCB (if not closed by tlhen)
which will act as liquidator;
* Appoint by end-January 1998 foreign expert as CEO for NCB;
* Sign governance contract satisfactory to the World Bank by end-January 1998 with NCB



- 11 -
(represented by foreign expert appointed as CEO);
* Sign governance contract satisfactory to the World Bank by end-January 1998 with the
management of SB which defines a program of conversion of the SB into a "narrow" bank
with no lending responsibilities while preparing the SB for privatization; the date of
conversion of the SB will be specified in the contract;
* Sign contract satisfactory to the World Bank with foreign bank by end-January 1998 to
convert SB into a "narrow" bank and prepare it for privatization;
* Amend by end-March 1998 the law(s) on Privatization of State-Owned Banks to delegate
authority from legislative to the executive branch for approval of privatization transactions
by end-March 1998;
* Transfer foreign donor credit lines out of RCB, NCB and SB to private banks by end-March
1998;
* Establish a work-out agency/resolution trust under terms of reference satisfactory to the
World Bank by end-March 1998;
* Complete implementation of international accounting standards for NCB and SB by
end-March 1998;
* Complete audits of NCB and SB by end-June 1998;
L Liquidate RCB by end-June 1998;
* Compensate SB for services rendered for the Treasury beginning July 1998;
* Liquidate NCB by end-December 1998 if not privatized.
Strengthening the Social Safety Net
32.   The disruption in economic activity as a result of the collapse of pyramid schemes has
impoverished many households in the country. The number of registered unemployed has increased
sharply, from 160,000 in January 1997 to 185,000 in August, 1997. Families receiving cash assistance
from Ndihma Ekonomike (NE), the main poverty alleviation program in the country have also increased,
from 145,000 at the end of 1996 to 168,000 by September, 1997.
33.   The NE was established in 1993 to provide the safety net of last resort to the poorest households
in the country. The program provides block grants to local authorities for distribution to eligible
recipients based on their socio-economic characteristics and the judgment of local authorities. Prior to
the crisis, the program was well implemented and targeted to the poor. Since then, the program has not
been able to meet its objective of protecting the poor because of the following reasons: (i) the total
amount of social assistance (NE) budgeted in 1997 could not be allocated because of a sharp reduction in
budgetary revenues; (ii) the lack of security and damages to local offices in many communities prevented
the release of available social assistance funds to local governments; and (iii) the real level of social
assistance benefits has fallen sharply over the past several months. The average monthly cash assistance
has declined by over 40 percent in real terms since July 1996. During July to October 1997, the average
level of cash assistance per family per month amounted to only Lek 2,030 (US$14), with 80,000 families
receiving the full assistance of Lek 2,700 per month and 85,000 families receiving partial benefits
averaging Lek 1,400 per month.
34.   As the internal security situation improves and economic activity resumes, the Government
intends to use the NE program as the main instrument for protecting the poor. As a first step, from
November 1997, the Government will pay the full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to the
local authorities through block grants. This will enable NE payments to rise to an average of Lek 2,436
(US$17) per family per month. These additional transfers can be accommodated within the 1997 budget
limits. For 1998, a further increase of 10 percent in the NE will be implemented beginning 1 January to



-12-
partially offset inflation.
35.   The Government will make a greater effort to improve the quality of care of orphans and the
elderly residing in state run institutions. The conditions of the buildings in these institutions are very
poor. The infrastructure is severely dilapidated and equipped with few basic amenities. The Ministry of
Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) has not been able to improve the quality of infrastructure of these
facilities over the past few years. This results, in large part, because the capital budget for welfare
institutions is not released early enough in the fiscal year for these institutions to complete contractual
arrangements for upgrading their facilities. Funds uncommitted by MOLSA are appropriated by the
Government at the end of the fiscal year. To address these issues, the Government will release the 1998
capital budget allocation for institutions for the elderly and orphans by April, 1998. In addition to
improving the living conditions in orphanages and homes for the elderly, the Government will work
closely with local and international agencies to develop guidelines for social services such as foster care
and home care for the elderly poor, in order to prevent the institutionalization of these disadvantaged
groups.
36.   The proposed credit will support the following specific measures in the Government's efforts to
strengthen the social safety net.
Prior to Board Presentation:
*  Pay full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to local authorities through the block
grant in November and December, 1997;
•  Include an increase of 10 percent in social assistance benefit payments, consistent with the
IMF Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program, starting I January 1998, in the draft
1998 budget;
-  Include in the draft 1998 budget the provision to release the 1998 capital budget for social
welfare institutions for the elderly and orphans by April 1998;
Follow-Up Measures:
*  Increase budget allocation for social assistance benefits payments by 10 percent beginning
January 1, 1998;
*  Establish guidelines by June 1998 for NGO involvement in launching foster parenting and
home care for the sick and elderly to avoid institutionalization of these groups.
Employment Promotion
37.   The public unemployment insurance program provides short term protection to individuals
against a decline in income due to job loss. By August 1997, some 35,000 persons, only 19 percent of
the total registered unemployed, were receiving unemployment benefits under the public unemployment
insurance scheme. This scheme is funded by a 6 percent payroll, a tax rate that is one of the highest in
the region. Under this program, contributors who meet eligibility requirements (contribute for at least
one year) are eligible for benefits payable at a flat rate for a duration of 12 months. The high payroll tax
for unemployment contributions, coupled with other payroll and income taxes, discourages formal sector
employment and inhibits economic growth.



- 13-
38.   Despite the high tax rate, the program requires budgetary transfers to meet its obligations
because of two main reasons: (i) the small number of contributors to the system limits the revenue base
of the program; and (ii) the weak link between contributions and benefits drives up program costs. The
Government will adjust the social insurance legislation to tighten eligibility conditions for
unemployment benefits and thereby establish a closer link between unemployment contributions and
benefits.
39.   The current administrative arrangement of the unemployment benefit program does not provide
for a transparent accounting and efficient delivery of benefits. Under existing arrangements, the
contributions for unemployment insurance are collected by the Social Insurance Institute (SII). These
funds are forwarded to the Treasury, and then distributed to regional Labor Offices where they are
disbursed to the eligible unemployed. The payment of unemployment benefit by Labor Offices also
unduly taxes staff by mobbing labor offices on payment days. The Government will make the current
system more efficient and transparent by transferring the responsibility of payment of unemployment
benefits from the Labor Offices to the SII. The SII will also provide the accounting and budgeting
information for unemployment insurance, similar to the procedures used for pension, sickness and
maternity payments. This process would improve the transparency in the budgeting procedure and
concentrate the responsibility for financing, accounting of social insurance benefits within a single
institution.
40.   In this way, the Labor offices will only be used to register the unemployed, provide job
counseling, job information, and cost-effective active labor market programs for the most difficult cases
of the unemployed. The activities of the Labor Offices themselves would be financed directly from the
budget rather than from unemployment contributions. As resources permit, cost effective labor market
programs that have been proven to be economically viable would also be financed from the budget. The
Government will specify the financing, scope of activities, and administration of employment services
provided by Labor Offices, incorporating the changes in their function specified above, in a new (rather
than revised current) Employment Promotion Law.
41.   The Government has been involved in the financing of community works programs since 1992.
These works have rehabilitated badly needed infrastructure in small communities and poor regions and,
in the course of doing so, have employed area residents and others in community works. The
Government is considering a scheme to re-build infrastructure damaged by the crisis and to reduce the
backlog of unmet maintenance in basic social and economic infrastructure through the repair of schools,
health facilities, roads, and cleaning up trash and drainage canals. The Government proposes to use on-
going and proposed community works programs to employ social assistance claimants in order to
provide screening and monitoring of social assistance claims. It is important that community works
programs not be established solely for employing social assistance claimants and that these works are
justified by sound economic criteria and implemented by capable and effective agencies. The
Government will develop the criteria and conditions for including social assistance beneficiaries in on-
going community works schemes including, but not limited to: selection and eligibility conditions,
assessment of economic costs/benefits, program participation incentives, designation of implementing
and contracting agencies and, monitoring and evaluation procedures. As a first step, the Government
will appoint a National Committee for Community/Public Works including representatives from the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Public
Works, to define criteria and procedures for operation of community works programs, and prepare a draft
terms of reference for the Committee. The Committee will develop an action plan and guidelines on
community work programs.



- 14-
42.   The proposed credit will support the following specific measures in the Govermnent's
employment promotion program.
Prior to Board Presentation:
*  Introduce proposals for adjustments to social insurance legislation to tighten the link
between contributions and benefits for unemployment insurance for IDA review;
*  Present agreement on the transfer of responsibility for payment of unemployment benefits
from the Labor Offices to the SII;
*  Present proposal on the accounting procedures between the SII and the Treasury for the
unemployment insurance program for IDA review;
*  Present Terms of Reference for the National Committee on Public/Community Works,
satisfactory to IDA;
*  Appoint a National Committee on Public/Community Works including representatives from
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Works to define criteria and
procedures for operating community works programs;
Follow-Up Measures:
*  Adopt adjustments to social insurance legislation satisfactory to IDA by March 1998;
*  Adopt Employment Promotion Law satisfactory to IDA by March 1998;
*  Implement new financing and accounting system for unemployment insurance program
satisfactory to IDA by March 1998;
*  Develop an action plan and guidelines on community works programs, satisfactory to IDA
by March 1998.
V.    THE PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
43.   The proposed quick disbursing Rehabilitation Credit in the amount of SDR 18.3 million (US$25
million equivalent) will provide financial support for the first set of measures in the Government's
economic recovery program. These measures are aimed at addressing some of the key structural
weaknesses which have contributed to the recent crisis, and alleviating the increased poverty and
unemployment generated by the crisis. Specifically, the proposed Credit supports the winding down of
the pyramid schemes; reforms in the banking sector; increased budgetary outlays to the social assistance
scheme; and employment promotion. The proposed Credit is closely coordinated with the approved
program under the IMF's post-conflict Emergency Assistance Program which, together with a proposed
follow-up ESAF program, will provide the underpinning for a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
RELATIONSHIP TO CAS
44.   The last CAS (P-6058-ALB) was discussed at the Board on September 14, 1993. There is no
current CAS for Albania; a new one is under preparation and is scheduled to be presented at the Board in
the spring of 1998.



- 15-
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
45.   The proposed Credit will be released in a single tranche upon effectiveness (expected December
1997). In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be
linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements.
MONITORING OF THE ARC
46.   The monitoring of the Govemment's compliance with the ARC conditionalities will take place in
the context of specific supervision mission's and preparatory activities for proposed adjustment lending
and follow-on labor market and social assistance operations. Compliance with the ARC conditionalities
is a pre-condition for the continuation of the, preparation of this future support for Albania.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
47.   The proposed ARC is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact, and as a result, it
has been rated a Category C project.
BENEFITS AND RISKS
48.   Benefits: The ARC will provide support to the key underpinnings of the Government's program
for recovery since the crisis. Specific benefits include: the final resolution of the pyramid schemes;
reform of the banking sector; increased social assistance payments to beneficiaries (currently 168,000
families, but anticipated to increase to around 200,000 families in 1998); strengthening of employment
services to help the unemployed obtain stable employment; improved screening and monitoring of social
assistance recipients, in 1998; rehabilitation of essential social and economic assets; and the de-
institutionalization of the institutionalized vulnerable population.
49.   Risks:  The Government and the implementing agencies (MOF and MOLSA) are highly
committed to the ARC, however two political risks remain: that security could worsen or not be fully re-
established and that the parliament may not approve the legislative agenda related to the ARC in a
timely manner. To mitigate these risks, the Govemment is already:
*  taking all the necessary steps to restore security to the remaining areas of the country, and
the normalization of the economy, which the ARC is designed to support, should in turn
promote security;
*  building consensus within parliament around the legislative changes, as the only way
forward to stabilize the country and resume rapid growth.



- 16 -
VI.  RECOMMENDATION
50.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 13, 1997



- 17-
ANNEX 1
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    Our Government is committed to restoring stability and order in the country and promoting the
resumption of growth following the crisis provoked by the pyramid schemes in April 1997. In support of
this, the Government is committed to restoring sound macroeconomic policies, and thus we are working
with the IMF, from whom we have requested support under the post-conflict Emergency Assistance
Program. To complement this stabilization program, and follow through on some essential and
immediate structural reforms and to extend support to those who have been impoverished by the crisis,
our Government is seeking the Albania Rehabilitation Credit (ARC) from IDA.
2.    The ARC will support the Government in four essential and immediate areas of reform:
a. Resolution of the pyramid schemes;
b. Reforming the banking sector;
c. Strengthening the social safety net; and
d. Employment promotion.
3.    The rest of this letter specifies in more detail what we have done and what we plan to do in these
four areas.
a. Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes
4.    Our Government is strongly committed to resolving the pyramid scheme problem, which we
view as a pre-requisite for our economic recovery program. Therefore, upon taking office in late July,
one of the first things we did was to pass a law which allows us to appoint administrators and auditors to
take control of the companies that had operated pyramid schemes and to manage the recovery and
distribution of their assets. In August, we started the process of selecting external administrators to
assume control of the schemes to audit the schemes and to trace, recover and distribute the recovered
assets to the depositors. Since the actual appointment of the external administrators did not take place
until early November due to the procedural steps involved, in the interim we have appointed Albanian
administrators for the schemes which have not yet been declared bankrupt to prevent further loss of
assets from these schemes. We plan to first appoint external administrators for the schemes which are



- 18-
still operative; we will then appoint external administrators for the remaining schemes by the end of this
year. We have already secured most of the US$6.5 million in external financing estimated to be required
for the foreign administrators and auditors from donors including the World Bank, the European Union,
the US, Italy, Greece, Switzerland and Denmark. The assets recovered from the schemes will be the only
source of compensation for the depositors; no public sector resources will be used for compensation.
Finally, to ensure that pyramid schemes cannot flourish in the future, we will strengthen, clarify and
enforce the legal and regulatory framework to prevent unauthorized taking of deposits. In particular, we
will review and amend, as required, the Companies' Law, the Banking Law and the Money Laundering
Law, to ensure that only licensed financial institutions can take deposits and to prevent illegal activities.
b. Reforming the Banking Sector
5.     Reform of the banking sector is a key priority for our Government, since a poorly functioning
banking sector has contributed to the recent crisis. Our banking sector, which is dominated by the three
state-owned banks, has not been able to adequately channel savings towards productive investments, in
large part because they are in the public domain and have no incentive to act according to commercial
principles. These banks have been behaving like state agencies with soft budget constraints, and as a
result, all three of them have very low loan collection rates from both the private and the public sector.
At the present time they are all insolvent. While poor management of these banks is a major contributing
factor, collection rates are low also because the legal and judicial processes make it hard for the banks to
collect. For these reasons, the credit risk of lending to the private sector is high; as a result the six joint
venture and foreign banks which are now operating in Albania are not engaged in very much domestic
credit intermediation.
6.    It is clear that our banking sector is in need of fundamental reforms to get commercial banking
started. To achieve this, we propose the following two-pronged approach. First, we aim to increase
private sector participation in the banking sector in order to raise competition and to improve
performance. In this regard, we will reform our state-owned banks through restructuring, privatization
and liquidation. Second, we will strengthen the institutional and infrastructural support for the newly
privatized banks and new entrants into the system so that banking business in Albania will be conducted
in accordance with commercial principles. This will be done by: (i) strengthening the legal and judicial
framework including amendments to and strict enforcement of the Banking Law (particularly with regard
to the issuance of bank licenses), the law on collateral and the Bankruptcy Law; (ii) strengthening
banking supervision through increasing the number of qualified bank supervisors in the BOA, further
development and implementation of prudential regulations in accordance with international standards,
and full implementation of international accounting standards; and strengthening on-site supervision; and
(iii) developing and strengthening the financial infrastructure including the payments system, accounting
and audits.
7.     We propose the following reform program for the three state-owned banks: liquidation of the
Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) as we think there is no possibility for privatization of this bank;
privatization of the National Commercial Bank (NCB) and if that fails liquidation; and define a strategy
for the SB which will prepare the bank for privatization. We will establish a work-out agency/resolution
trust where the bad loans of all three banks will be placed, and which will be responsible for their
collection. We will also secure the necessary amendments to the Privatization Law(s) for state-owned
banks such that the authority for approval of these transactions will be delegated from the legislative to
the executive level. We will seek the agreement of foreign donors to cease intermediating their
commercial credit lines through the state-owned banks, and we will not accept any new foreign donor
commercial credit lines. We will transfer all existing foreign donor commercial credit lines in RCB,



- 19-
NCB and SB to private banks by March 1998. NCB and SB will complete the implementation of
international accounting standards by March 1998, and will have their books audited by June 1998.
Other details of the reform program for each of the banks are as follows.
8.    Rural Commercial Bank. We have already frozen all new lending, new capital expenditures and
new business activities for the RCB. We have also appointed an Albanian administrator/CEO for the
RCB who will liquidate the bank. Deposits in the RCB will be placed in the other state banks or the
private banks, backed by good assets of RCB (cash, treasury bills and foreign deposits). We will make
up the difference in value of the assets and liabilities placed in these banks by government paper, or
paper backed by government guarantee, the terms of which will be negotiated with these banks. If RCB
is still operative by end-January 1998, we will appoint a foreign expert, based on terms of reference
agreed with IDA, who will take the position of CEO of RCB, assume full control of the bank, and
liquidate it by no later than June 1998. The present policy of allowing no lending by RCB will be
maintained.
9.    National Commercial Bank. We intend to conclude a governance contract, agreed with IDA, by
end-January 1998 with NCB (represented by a foreign expert who will be appointed CEO of NCB by
then). In the meantime, in order to minimize further losses in NCB, we have appointed, based on terms
of reference agreed with IDA, a qualified Albanian administrator/CEO who will carry out holding
actions on the bank including cost controls, no net lending, and renewed efforts to collect bad loans. The
foreign CEO will continue the holding actions while trying to privatize the bank. If NCB is not
privatized by end-1998, we will liquidate the bank.
10.   Savings Bank. We will define a strategy for the SB to prepare it for privatization. As a first
step, we will put in place a credit ceiling of Leks 200m. for the SB for the last quarter of 1997. By end-
January 1998 we will enter into a contract with a reputable foreign bank to strengthen the SB and prepare
it for privatization. By the same time, we will also place a governance contract with the management of
SB for the same purpose. The fiscal functions of the SB will be separated out within the bank, and we
will compensate the bank for costs of services rendered for the Treasury beginning July 1998. We will
seek to privatize the SB by end- 1999.
c. Strengthening the Social Safety Net
11.   Our social assistance program (Ndihma Ekonomike - NE) was introduced in 1993 to provide
support for those in society who, for whatever reason, are unable to obtain a minimum level of income
for themselves. Before the economic crisis, the program was seen as being relatively successful in its
implementation and targeting. During the latter part of 1996, and in particular since April 1997, the
program has been increasingly unable to meet its objectives because of the following reasons: (i) the
total amount of social assistance (NE) budgeted in 1997 could not be allocated because of a sharp
reduction in budgetary revenues; (ii) the lack of security and damages to local offices in many
communities prevented the release of available social assistance funds to local governments; and (iii) the
real level of social assistance benefits has fallen sharply over the past several months. The monthly cash
assistance has not been adjusted since July 1996, implying a large decline of over 40 percent in real
terms since then. During July to October 1997, the cash assistance per family per month amounted to an
average of only Lek 2,030 (US$14 at end-October). Of the 165,000 families currently receiving social
assistance, 80,000 families receive the full allowance of Lek 2700 per month, and 85,000 families
receive partial allowance averaging Lek 1400 per month.



- 20 -
12.   As the internal security situation improves and economic activity resumes, we intend to use the
NE program as the main instrument for protecting the poor. As a first step, from November 1997, we
will increase social assistance levels to Lek 3240 per family per month for full assistance, and to an
average of Lek 1680 per month for partial assistance. These additional transfers can be accommodated
within the 1997 budget limits. For 1998, effective January 1, we will implement a further increase of 10
percent over the November-December 1997 average level of NE of Lek 2436 per family per month to
partially offset cumulative inflation since July 1996.
13.   We will also focus increased attention on improving the quality of care of orphans and elderly
residing in state run institutions. The conditions of the buildings in these institutions is very poor. The
infrastructure is severely dilapidated and equipped with few basic amenities. To address this issue, we
agree to release the 1998 capital budget allocation for institutions for elderly and orphans by April, 1998.
In addition to improving the living conditions in orphanages and homes for the elderly, we will work
closely with local and international agencies to develop guidelines for social services by mid-1998, such
as foster care and home care for the elderly poor in order to prevent the institutionalization of these
disadvantaged groups.
d. Employment Promotion
14.   Our unemployment insurance program provides short term cash benefits to individuals faced
with a decline in income due to job loss. The program is financed through a 6 percent payroll tax, one of
the highest unemployment tax rates in the region. Despite the high tax rate, the program requires
budgetary transfers to meet its obligations because: (i) the small number of contributors to our system
limits the revenue base of the program; and (ii) the weak link between contributions and benefits drives
up program costs. We will adjust the legislation on social insurance by March 1998, to establish a closer
link between unemployment contributions and benefits. We will prepare draft adjustments of the
legislation by mid November of this year.
15.   The current administrative arrangement of the unemployment benefit program does not provide
for a transparent accounting and efficient delivery of benefits. Under existing arrangements, the
contributions for unemployment insurance are collected by the Social Insurance Institute (SII). These
funds are forwarded to the Treasury, and then distributed to regional Labor Offices where they are
disbursed to the eligible unemployed. The payment of the unemployment benefit by Labor Offices
unduly taxes staff by mobbing labor offices on payment days. We will make the current system more
efficient by having the SII pay out through the banks the unemployment benefits to the eligible
unemployed. The system will be more transparent as we will propose by mid-November, new
accounting procedures for unemployment insurance to be used by SII and Treasury, similar to the
procedures used for pension, sickness and maternity payments. This arrangement will improve the
efficiency and transparency of the system by concentrating the responsibility for collection and
accounting of social insurance benefits within a single institution.
16.   In this way, our Labor Offices will only be used to register the unemployed, provide job
counseling, job information and cost-effective active labor market programs for the most difficult cases
of the unemployed. The activities of the Labor Offices would be financed directly from the budget. The
financing, scope of activities, and administration of employment services provided by Labor Offices,
incorporating these changes, would be specified in a revised Employment Promotion Law we will adopt
by March, 1998.



-21 -
17.   We have been involved in the financing of community works progrns since 1992. Ths wo
have rehabilitated badly needed infrastructure in small communities and poor regions and, in the cowus
of doing so, have employed area residents and others in community works. We are considering a scwime
to re-build infrastructure damaged by the crisis and reducing the backlog of unmet maintenance in basic
social and economic infrastructure through the repair of schools, health facilities, wads, and cleaning up
trash and drainage canals. We propose' to use on-going and proposed community works progmms to
employ social assistance claimants in order to provide screening and monitoring of social assistance
claims. We understand that community works programs should not be established solely for employing
social assistance claimants and that such works should be justified by sound economic and possibly
social criteria and implemented by capable and effective agencies. We will develop the criteria ad
conditions for including social assistance beneficiaries in on-going community works schemes including,
but not limited to: selection and eligibility conditions, program participation incentives for beneficiaies,
designation of implementing and contracting agencies and, monitoring and evaluation procedures. As a
first step, we will appoint a National Committee for Community/Public Works including reprative.
from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Transport and Ministg/ of
Public Works, to define criteria and procedures for operation of community works programs, and prepae
a draft terms of reference for the Committee by end October, 1997. The Committee will develop
guidelines and an action plan for Community Works by March, 1998.
Sincerely yours,
I liYt s lIe  Arbgn NblftJ}    H1i5Es             rili%ocIItcflC?y4tI*A
ij FIiluuiCo  MtIpatbrollAborou  Sncial AimleMessm
OuvWt,1I~)L  l;AIbmflb       GC~vemms'1t nr Altma.uia          Dan  ., 41houss
7/






- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 2
POLICY MATRIX
ALBANIA
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
Policy Areas: resolution of the pyramid schemes; reform of the banking sector; strengthening the social safety net; and employment promotion.
Objectives                                            Measures Adopted by Board Presentation                Follow-Up Measures
Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes                     *   Appoint external administrators for the four pyramid  *   Appoint external administrators/auditors for remaining
*   To wind up pyramid schemes                            schemes which have not yet been declared bankrupt --  twelve pyramid schemes by end-December 1997.
that is for Vefa, Silva, Kamberi and Cenaj.
Reform of the Banking Sector                          *   Appoint qualified Albanian administrators/CEOs for  *   Appoint    by    end-January    1998    foreign
NCB and RCB based on terms of reference agreed with   administrator/CEO for RCB (if not closed by then) who
*   To strengthen functioning of the formal banking sector  IDA.                                                 will act as liquidator.
*   Ministry of Finance and Bank of Albania to approve  *   Appoint by end-January 1998 foreign expert as CEO for
terms of reference agreed with IDA for the external   NCB.
administrators/CEOs who will assume full control of  *   Sign governance contract satisfactory to IDA between
RCB and NCB.                                          the governnent and NCB (represented by the foreign
*   Put in place zero incremental credit ceiling for NCB.  expert appointed as CEO) by end-January 1998.
*   Maintain restriction of no lending by RCB.        *   Sign governance contract satisfactory to IDA between
*   Put in place credit ceiling of Leks 200m. for SB for the  the government and the management of the SB by end-
last quarter of 1997.                                 January 1998 which defnes a program of conversion of
*   Approve terms of reference for audits of NCB and SB by  the SB into a "narrow" bank.
accounting firms of intemational repute.          *   Sign contract with foreign bank by end-January 1998
*   Seek  agreement from  foreign  donors  to  cease      based on terms of reference agreed with IDA to convert
intermediating their commercial credit lines through  SB into a narrow bank and to prepare it for privatization.
RCB, NCB and SB.                                  *   Amend by end-March 1998 the law(s) on Privatization
*   Accept no new foreign commercial credit lines for RCB,  of State-owned Banks to delegate authority from
NCB and SB.                                           legislative to the executive branch for approval of
privatization transactions.
*   Transfer foreign donor commercial credit lines out of
RCB, NCB and SB to private banks by end-March 1998.
*   Establish work-out agency/resolution trust under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
*   Complete implementation of intemational accounting
standards for NCB and SB by end-March 1998.
*   Complete audits for NCB & SB by end-June 1998.
*   Liquidate RCB by end-June 1998.
*   Compensate SB for services rendered for the Treasury
beginning July 1998.
*   Liquidate NCB by end-1998 if not privatized.



-24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Strengthening the Social Safety Net (Ndihme Ekononike)
*   To provide adequate and timely payment of social  *   Pay full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to  *   Implement payment of increased level of social
assistance payments including partial compensation for  local authority through the block grant in November and  assistance on January 1, 1998 (that is 10 percent above
the loss in real value of social assistance payments since  December, 1997.                                 the average November-December 1997 level of Leks
July 15, 1996                                     *   Introduce into draft budget an increase of 10 percent in  2436 per month).
social assistance benefits above the average November-
December 1997 level (that is Leks 2436 per month)
starting I January 1998.
*   Improve basic living conditions for the institutionalized  *   Introduce into draft budget release by April 1998 of  Establish guidelines for NGO involvement in launching
elderly and orphans; develop programs to prevent      1998 capital investment budget for social welfare     foster parenting and home care for the sick and elderly to
institutionalization                                 institutions for elderly and orphans.                  avoid the institutionalization of these groups by June
1998.
Employment Promotion
*   To  increase  transparency  of the  budgeting  of  *   Introduce proposals for adjustments to social insurance  *   Adopt adjustments to  social insurance legislation
unemployment benefits; to  reduce  costs of the       legislation to tighten the link between contributions and  satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
unemployment benefits program by linking benefits to  benefits on unemployment benefits for IDA review.  *   Adopt Employment Promotion Law satisfactory to IDA
contributions, and focus labor offices on cost effective  *   Present agreement between the Ministry of Labor and  by March 1998.
labor services                                        the Ministry of Finance on the transfer of responsibility  *   Implement new financing and accounting system for
for payment of unemployment benefits from the Labor   unemployment insurance program by March 1998.
Offices to the SII.                               *   Develop action plan and guidelines on community works
*   Present proposal on the accounting procedures between  programs, satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
the Sll and the Treasury for the unemployment insurance
program for IDA review.
*   Present Terms of Reference for the National Committee
on Public/Community Works, satisfactory to IDA.
*   Appoint National Committee on Public/Community
Works including representatives from Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Works to
define criteria and procedures for operating community
works programs.



- 25 -
ANNEX 3
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1) Time Taken to Prepare:         45 days
(2) Project Prepared by:           Government/World Bank
(4) Regional Operations Committee:   October 17, 1997
(5) Appraisal:                     October 10,1997
(6) Negotiations:                  October 28, 1997
(7) Board Presentation:            December 9, 1997
(8) Closing Date:                  June 30, 1998






-27 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Albania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                             disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
No.                                                                      IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj         Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits; 2
Active Loans
IDA25240   1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              AGRIC. SECTOR ADJ. C        0.00      20.00            0.00          5.86      5.49      0.00       S            U
IDA24990   1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC        0.00      18.00            0.00          5.39      4.86      0.00       S            S
IDA24920   1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              TECHNICAL ASST.             0.00       4.00            0.00          1.30      1.10      0.00       S            S
IDA26330   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA        0.00        9.60           0.00          3.40      3.13      0.00       S            S
IDA26100   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              DURRESS WATER SUPPLY        0.00      11.60            0.00          6.49      6.31      0.00       S            S
IDA25440   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              LABOR MARKET DEVELOP        0.00       5.40            0.00          2.47      2.32      0.00       S            S
IDA25430   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              SOCIAL SAFETY NET           0.00       5.50            0.00          1.44      1.31      0.00       S            S
IDA25340   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              HOUSING                     0.00      15.00            0.00          1.72      1.25      0.00       U            U
IDA27320   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              RURAL ROADS                 0.00      15.00            0.00         10.94     11.96      0.'00     HS            HS
IDA26800   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              RURAL DEVELOPMENT           0.00       6.00            0.00          2.38      2.55      0.00       S            S
IDA26770   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              POWER LOSS RBDUCTION        0.00       5.00            0.00           .03       .04      0.00       S            S
IDA26590   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              HEALTH SERVICES REHA        0.00      12.40            0.00          8.58      8.98      0.00       S            S
IDA26520   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              IRRIGATION REHABILIT        0.00      10.00            0.00          1.55      1.30      0.00      HS            HS
IDA26490   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              EFSAC                       0.00      15.00            0.00          7.45      7.40      0.00       S            S
IDA26460   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.        0.00       4.00            0.00          1.75      1.66      0.00       S            HS
IDA28880   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              NATIONAL ROADS              0.00      25.00            0.00         22.86     23.77      0.00      HS            HS
IDA28460   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              FORESTRY                    0.00       8.00            0.00          6.77      7.13      0.00       S            U
IDA28260   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              POMER TRANSM. & DIST        0.00      29.50            0.00         23.91     26.39      0.00       S            S
IDA27950   1996  REPUBLIC OP AlBANIA              AGROPROCESSING DEVL         0.00       6.00            0.00          4.44      4.70      0.00       U            U
IDA27700   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA              URBAN WORKS a MICRO         0.00       4.00            0.00          2.00      2.37      0.00       S            S
Total                                                                                        0.00     229.00            0.00       120.73    124.02       0.00
Active Loan6        Closed LaTns           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               104.57              44.96             149.53
of which has been repaid:                 0.00               0.00               0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               229.00              43.50             272.50
Amount sold                    :                0.00               0.00               0.00
Of which repaid             :                0.00               0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed              :              120.73                .01             120.74
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS * highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU =
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 28 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Albania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conunitment
Loan   EguiuX   Quas   Partic
1997                  ALBANIA FUND             0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1996                  BORA                     1.60     .40    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           1.60    1.90    0.00    0.00



- 29 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of3
Key Economic Indicators
Actual                             Projected
Indicator                     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996      1997       1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0        100.0
Agriculture                  42.5    54.2    54.6    55.1    55.9    55.4      63.3       58.8
Industrya                    38.7    24.5    22.9    21.9    21.3    21.1      18.4       18.8
Servicesa                    18.8    21.3    22.5    23.0    22.7    23.5      18.3       22.4
Total Consumption             114.7   173.0   133.6   109.8   101.0   106.0    112.6       107.3
Gross domestic fixed           6.1      5.2    13.2    17.8    21.0    20.5       8.2       20.0
investment
Government investment         6.1     4.0     9.5     8.5     8.2      4.5      3.2        7.2
Private investment            0.0     1.2     3.7     9.3    12.8    16.0       5.0       12.8
Exports (GNFS)b           ..           11.5    15.4    11.3    12.5    12.6      12.1       12.0
Imports (GNFS) b                       89.7    62.3    38.9    34.5    40.9      32.9       39.3
Gross domestic savings    ..          -73.0   -33.6    -9.8    -1.0    -6.8    -12.6        -7.3
Gross national savingse   ..          -51.5   -12.9     5.7    14.7    11.4      -0.4        6.0
Memorandum hems
Gross domestic product       1143.8   709.3  1227.2  1984.2  2422.2  2689.0   2222.8    2650.1
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per    ..     310.0   330.0   400.0   640.0   820.0    730.0.
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
Gross domestic product at  ..        -7.2     9.6     9.4      8.9     9.1     -8.0       12.2
market prices
Gross Domestic Income    ..           0.7     8.4     9.9     9.6      8.7     -6.4       12.9
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at  ..        -5.1    10.3     8.3      7.4     7.6     -9.5       10.4
market prices
Total consumption       ..           42.4     0.5      1.3     1.0    16.1     -6.1        5.8
Private consumption      ..          54.4     1.3    -1.0      0.0    18.5     -4.1        6.7



- 30 -
ANNEX5
Page 2 of 3
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                             Projected
Indicator                      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996      1997      1998
The balance of payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b              163.0    81.6   189.3   225.2   302.3   337.7      268.4     318.5
Merchandise FOB            101.0   69.9   111.7   141.3   205.0   229.0       182.0    210.0
Imports (GNFS)b              464.8   636.3   764.2   772.8   835.9  1072.7     731.4   1041.1
Merchandise FOB            409.4   524.0   601.5   601.0   679.0   921.0      596.0    880.0
Resource balance            -301.8  -554.7  -574.9  -547.6  -533.6  -735.0    -463.0   -722.6
Net current private transfers  27.6   148.0  230.0   264.4   300.0   425.0      225.0    300.0
Current account balance     -294.1  -441.7  -364.5  -283.5  -180.6  -249.0    -193.0   -370.1
(excluding official transfers)
Net private foreign direct     0.0    32.0    45.0    65.0    89.0    97.0       33.0      50.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)         15.0   49.9    45.7    50.0    73.0    96.0        49.0     182.0
Official                 ..          46.9    29.7    50.0    73.0    96.0       49.0     182.0
Private                  ..           3.0    16.0    0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0       0.0
Other capital (net, including  57.0  416.8   331.8   203.5    44.6   104.0      140.0    139.1
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves(increase=-)e   222.1   -57.0   -58.0   -35.0   -26.0   -48.0  -29.0     -1.0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of        -26.4   -78.2   -46.8   -27.6   -22.0   -27.3      -20.8    -27.3
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(YR93 prices)
Merchandise exports       ..      ..          75.2   21.3    37.7    12.4       -18.0      12.4
Merchandise imports       ..      ..           7.3    -1.6    10.3    34.8      -27.7      43.7



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                                  Projected
Indicator                         1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996           1997        1998
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)f
Current revenues                 31.4    22.5      24.9     23.3      23.9     18.3       13.2        21.8
Current expenditures             55.8     39.9    30.8    28.3        25.8     25.8      25.4         30.5
Budgetary savings surplus (+)    -27.3    -22.9     -9.4     -7.2     -3.0     -7.6      -12.3        -8.7
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditures              6.1      4.0      9.5       8.5      8.5      4.5        3.2         7.2
Domestically financed deficits   43.7     20.0      9.1       7.5      6.7     10.5       13.1         9.7
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market        68.2    41.2      32.0     30.6      38.9     43.0      63.0         55.6
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                105.9     95.2     82.9    43.3       52.0     38.4      42.3         25.5
Price indices
(1993 =100)
Merchandise export price *       15.8    80.5    100.0    96.7        99.8    111.7      162.4       167.8
index (LCU)
Merchandise import price         35.8     68.6    100.0    94.1       94.5    108.1     142.7        147.1
index (LCU)
Merchandise terms oftrade        44.0    117.3    100.0    102.7    105.6   103.3        113.8       114.1
index
Real exchange rate          ..            75.8    100.0    128.9    137.9   134.1        120.0       121.9
(US$/LCU)5
Consumer price index             35.5   226.0      85.0    22.5        7.8     12.7      37.5         25.9
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                 ..          248.0    114.9    37.1        9.8     14.6      35.1         26.8
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at market prices.
b. "GNFS" denotes 'goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Excludes all fast-disbursing loans, and IMF purchases or repurchases.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f. Central govemment only.
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.



I
I



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
Albania at a glance                                                            10/11197
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Albania      Asia  Income      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        3.3       479    1,125                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             820     2,180    1,750
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               2.7     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        0.2       0.3      1.4      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                       0.8       0.5      1.8      per         <                  pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (X of population)             20
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                 39        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five births)               30        26       41              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                                    -Abania
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  98        97      104              Lbania
Mate                                                98         97      105                Lower-middie-Income group
Female                                               99        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1986      1995    1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billons US$)                                     2.0       2.4      2.7
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                  ..    30.4      21.0    20.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              ..    16.2      12.5    12.6
Gross domestic savingslGDP                     ..    28.3       -1.0    -6.8
Gross national savings/GDP                     ,,    301       14.7     11.4
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -1.9      -6.4      -9.2
Interest payments/GDP                         ..       ..       0.4      0.4      Savings                     Investment
Total debttGDP                                 ..      ..      40.1     37.5
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..       1.5      2.3
Present value of debt/GOP                      ..      ..      32.6
Present value of debtVexports                 ..       ..    196.7                           Indebtedness
1975-86  1986-96    1996      1996  1997465
(average annual growth)                                                                    Albania
GDP                                   ..    -0.9      8.9       9.1                        Lower-rniddb-ncome group
GNP per capita                       ..       ..      9.7       7.6                        L-
Exports of goods and services        ..       ..    27.4        12.4      ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(9%ofGDP)                                   197      1986      1995             | Growth rates ofoutput and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                   ..    27.9       55.9    55.4    2W0
Industry                                      ..    34.9       21.3    21.1       -50
Manufacturing                                ..       ..        ..       ..    io/
Services                                      ..    37.2       22.7     23.5      o0
Private consumption                            ..    62.6      87.4    94.2    -w              92   93   94  9#   96
General govemment consumption                  ..     9.2       13.6    12.6              -     GDI    0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    18.4      34.5     39.9
1975-86  1986-96     1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..      3.5       10.6     8.1    200
Industry                                      ..    -9.1       16.4    23.4    iso
Manufacturing                                ..       ..        ..       ..
Services                                      ..      2.6       7.6      12.9     10.
Private consumption                                   0.1        1.1     19.9  s\
General govemment consumption                 ..      0.0        9.2     2.6        A
Gross domestic investment                     ..    -0.1       28.5      5.2      -s      91   92   93   94    9    9
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       5.6    26.5                    Expons  Imports
Gross national product                        ..      o.       11.3      9.2             -
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 34 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                     i       (#)
(% change)                                                                         250
Consumer prices                                ..       ..        7.8     12.7    2C0
Implicit GDP deflator                           .      0.4        9.8     14.6    190
Government finance                                                                 50
(% of GOP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..    50.6       23.9     18.3       90   91   92   93   94   9s   96
Current budget balance                          ..    24.4       -1.9     -7.5              -     GDP de.   0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -1.8       -10.4    -11.9
TRADE
(millions USS)                               1976     1985      1996     i          Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..     304       205       229      1,000
Chromium and derivatives                      ..
Tobacco                                                                            8o
Manufactures 
Total imports (cit)                                    345       679       921          i 
Food30
Fuel end energy                                                                    2
Capital goods                                                                       0r F
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..       ..         ..                    90  91  92  93  94  95  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       .Exports    m Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1996     1996
(millons US$)                                                                       Cuffent account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                          319       302       338 
Imports of goods and servioes                  ..      363       838    1,073                91  92  93  94            96
Resource balance                               ..       44       -534     .735    -10
Net income                                      ..       1        53        61    -20
Net current transfers                          ..        6       327      428    -30
Current account balance,                                                           -40
before official transfers                     ..      -37      -181     -249
500
Financing items (net)                          ..       20       207       297
Changes in net reserves                         ..      17        -26      -48     40
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)                      83       265       323
Conversion rate (localUUSS)                    ..      8.6       92.8    104.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996     1996
(milifons USS)                                                                     Compositon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..        ..      971    1,009
IBRD                                         ..       ..         0        0                              B
IDA                                          ..       ..        91      122                              122
Totaldebt service                              ..       ..        10        20                                 460
18RD                                          .        .         0        0                                    2
IDA                                                              I         I .  1  1
Composition of net resource flows
Offlicial grants                             ..       ..       118       80
Oflcial creditors                                     .,        35       40            G                       F
Private creditors                            ..       ..        -2        -5          841                     66
Foreign direct investment                     ..      ..        89       97
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         0         0
World Bank program
CommItments                                  ..       ..        36        62      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..        43        32      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       ..         0         0      C-IMF                       G - Short-terrn
Nat fbws                                      ..      ..        43        32
Interest payments                            ..        .          I        1
Nat tranfers                                 ..       ..        43        31
Development Economics                                                                                               10111/97



IBRD 25410
CR  IA~~~~~~~~  D        P0UOLAI                                                                                             1
SEA42
.SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND
CAPACtTYBUILDING PROJECT
Dy SHOOL REPlACEMENT PROCrM                                                            ,M CE O I
DISTRCT EDUCATION S-CONQMIC:
CENTERS AND CITES
MINOR TOWN&;
*NATIONALCAP17TAL.
-    DSTRCT BOUNDARIES
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EL.EVATIONS IN METER$-.
ITALY
40'          Th   onris   oors,
denainotians and atnyGRE
otfher-inforniafion shown          9 ji.1
on this: rma   do   not:
The: World Bank Group,
arc judgament on~ the ILegof
status of any ter4fory,
or a)ny endorsemerr
oacetceof such
*          ~~~~19'                                                                                             21'
APRIL 1994



el
IMAGING
Report No.: P      7186  ALS
Type:    PR



