Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19102
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit No.30.15-AL)
March 30, 1999
Human Development Sector Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 25, 1999)
Currency Unit   =    Lek
US$1    =    140.58 Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Lek per US$1)
1998          1997          1996          1995          1994          1993
150.63        148.93      104.5 Lek      92.8 Lek      94.7 Lek     102.lLek
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC   -  Albania Rehabilitation Credit
BOA   -  Bank of Albania
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEO   -  Chief Executive Officer
ESAF  -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU   -  European Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOA   -  Government of Albania
IDA   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
MOLSA   -  Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NCB   -  National Commercial Bank
NE   -  Ndihma Ekonomike (Social Assistance)
NES  -  National Employment Service
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PSR   -  Project Status Report
RCB   -  Rural Commercial Bank
SB   -  Savings Bank
SII  -  Social Insurance Institute
VAT  -  Value Added Tax
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Team Leader:  Helena Tang, ECSPE
Sector Leader:  Michal Rutkowski, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit 3015-AL)
CONTENTS
Preface ...............................................................................................................................................
Evaluation Summary .............................                                                    .
PART I.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................................
A. Background and Statement and Evaluation of Objectives.......................................................
B. Achievement of Objectives.......................................................................................................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project...........................................................................................6
D. Project Sustainability ............................6
E. Bank Performance ............................7
F. Borrower Performance ............................                                                                         7
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................7
H. Future Operations ............................8
I. Key Lessons Learned ............................8
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...........................                                                                10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................11
Table 3: Project Timetable .................                                                                                12
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................................... 12
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation ..................................................                      12
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................................                           12
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..................................................                                    12
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................. 13
Table 8B: Project Financing ..................................................                                             13
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                                    13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................. 13
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................................   13
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                                  14
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Missions ..................................................                                15
APPENDIXES ..................................................                                                           16
Appendix 1. Policy Matrix
Appendix 2. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix 3. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit 3015-AL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Credit in
Albania (ARC). The Credit 3015-AL (SDR 18.3 million or US$25 million equivalent) was
approved on December 9, 1997 and became effective on March 19, 1998.
The ARC was closed on December 31, 1998, the original closing date. A single tranche
was released upon effectiveness, on standard International Development Association (IDA)
terms.
The ICR was prepared by Laura Alonso-Escartin (ECC02) of the Europe and Central
Asia Region and reviewed by Helena Tang (ECSPE). Comments provided by the borrower have
been included as an appendix.
The preparation of this ICR is based on the project files of the ARC and of the following
projects: Social Safety Net Development Project (2543-AL), Labor Market Development Project
(2544-AL), Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (2492-AL), Enterprise and
Financial sector Adjustment Credit (2649-AL) and the Recovery Program Technical Assistance
Project (3016-AL).



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit 3015-AL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    When it joined the World Bank Group in 1992, Albania had just emerged as a
democracy, after 47 years of autarky and communist rule. It needed assistance across all sectors.
The International Development Association's (IDA) strategy envisaged an intensive policy
dialogue, complemented by an International Monetary Fund (IMF) macroeconomic stabilization
program.  IDA's areas of special attention included rehabilitation of basic infrastructure,
development of private agriculture and a social safety net, restoration of basic education and
health services, privatization of small and medium scale enterprises, downsizing large state
owned enterprises (SOEs), development of a financial system, and normalization of relations with
external creditors.
ii.   In the 1992-1996 period, 22 projects were approved for Albania. The Bank undertook six
operations in the agriculture sector, since this sector would have the largest impact on poverty
reduction. Transport infrastructure received three IDA operations focusing on national and rural
roads, and there were two operations in the energy sector and seven on human resource
development (including health, education, and the social safety net). The urban sector received
two IDA credits, one to support the housing sector and a second one to deliver microcredit and
small urban works by participatory means. The industry and finance sectors were the focus of an
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustmnent Credit (EFSAC) which supported the development of
the banking system, the continued privatization in the industrial sector, and the liquidation or
downsizing of non-viable SOEs. The Technical Assistance for Economic Reform project also
supported the government's privatization efforts.
iii.   Following the smooth transition started in 1992, Albania descended into near anarchy and
civil war in early 1997, mainly as a result of the collapse of the pyramid schemes. The collapse
of the schemes, which emerged in the absence of an adequate regulatory framework, resulted in
rioting, civil unrest, reportedly 1500 deaths, major damage to buildings and infrastructure, and
had devastating effects on the economy.
iv.    The donor community, in close cooperation with the Government, moved rapidly to assist
Albania in the preparation of a Recovery Program outlining priority areas for policy reform and
investment in the post-crisis period. The Program envisaged two stages for the country's
recovery. The first stage included short-run measures to undertake macroeconomic stabilization
and a limited number of high priority structural reforms; the second stage will deal with
remaining structural reforms in the financial sector, public administration and civil service,
judicial reforms, institution building, and remaining privatization issues. The first stage was
supported by an International Monetary Fund (IMF) six-month Emergency Assistance Program
and the IDA Albania Rehabilitation Credit (ARC). The ARC was accompanied by a Recovery
Program Technical Assistance project designed to help the ARC in reform implementation.



ii
Project Objectives
v.     The ARC was a quick-disbursement, one-tranche credit designed to provide immediate
balance of payments assistance for the implementation of urgent structural reforms and poverty
alleviation measures after the 1997 crisis. The ARC set a number of high priority reforms as
conditions to be met prior to Board presentation in addition to medium-term, or follow-up
actions, designed to generate continuity to the next adjustment operation but are not legally
binding in the Development Agreement.
vi.    Specifically, the Credit supported: (i) the resolution of the pyramid schemes; (ii) the
reform of the banking system; (iii) the strengthening of the social safety net; and (iv) employment
promotion. The policy conditions designed to achieve these objectives are specified in the policy
matrix in the President's Report (Annex 2) which can also be found in Appendix 1 of this report.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.   The ARC was successful in meeting its objectives. All necessary conditions prior to
Board presentation were met, and there was significant progress in implementing most of the
follow-up measures. More specifically:
*  The pyramid schemes were dismantled. Deloitte & Touche consultants were appointed as
administrators for the five companies that had not declared bankruptcy in the end of 1997,
and are in the process of auctioning recovered assets. In addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers
consultants are auditing these five companies and administering and auditing the twelve
remaining bankrupt schemes. Work is expected to conclude in March 1999, instead of
December 1998, because of the September 1998 disturbances.
*  In the banking sector, significant efforts were made to encourage private commercial
banking. The Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), one of the three state-owned banks, was
closed, while the Savings Bank (SB) and the National Commercial Bank (NCB) are taking
the necessary steps for privatization under foreign CEOs. International accounting standards
are being implemented for the NCB and SB while audits for the state banks have been
prepared by international accounting firms. There were some delays in implementation of
follow-up measures because of the events of September.
* The operations of the social safety net were restored. The government had resumed payment
of the full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to local authorities and it raised
average benefit by 10 percent in the 1998 budget to offset part of the real decline in benefit
level. In addition, the early release (April 1998) of the capital investment budget for social
welfare institutions for the elderly and orphans was introduced into the 1998 draft budget.
*  With respect to employment promotion, an agreement was reached with the Bank to reduce
the duration, level, and eligibility of unemployment benefits in order to allow for a reduction
in the tax rate for the unemployment insurance system. It was also agreed that efforts would
be made to make the local labor offices more efficient. In addition, a national committee of
public/community works was appointed to define criteria and procedures for these programs.
viii.   Progress achieved under the ARC  is sustainable, assuming internal security is
maintained, and assuming that the political commitment to carry out structural reforms persists.
The government that took office in September of 1998 is strongly committed to carrying out the
necessary structural reforms following the advice of, and in close cooperation with IDA and the
rest of the donor community.



iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
ix.    Summary of findings.  Core reforms supported by the ARC were implemented as
described in the President's Report. Yet poverty and unemployment remain at high levels,
economic recovery is still fragile, the balance of payments remains weak, and serious structural
and institutional problems remain. While the ARC contributed significantly to restoring stability
to Albania after the 1997 crisis, much needs to be done in order to ensure that the economic
recovery is sustained. Ongoing and future operations need to ensure that necessary further
structural and institutional measures are implemented.  The ARC, in conjunction with
contributions from other international donors and additional IDA funding, set the stage for the
additional reforms that need to take place under a stable economic background.
x.    Future operations. The Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project, an ongoing
operation, complements the emergency support provided by the ARC by providing technical
assistance to help implement the necessary undertakings in key areas of banking sector reform,
and economic and public policy management. A Structural Adjustment Credit, currently under
preparation, will place central emphasis on strengthening the public administration, in addition to
supporting judicial reforms, banking and enterprise privatization, agricultural reforms and
reforms in social protection. In addition, a future Banking Privatization Project will address
issues relating to the privatization of the Savings Bank (SB) and the further promotion of private
banking.
xi.    Key Lessons Learned:
*  Since the government was not legally bound to adopt the follow-up measures of the ARC,
some of them were not accomplished; this can be attributed to the fact that: (1) they were not
specific to the projects used to monitor the follow-up measures of the ARC; and (2) the
greater priority accorded to resolving the problems caused by the pyramid schemes and in
reforming the banking sector than to the social sector, which explains why regarding the
social safety net and employment promotion, follow-up measures were partially achieved and
at a slow pace.
-  Sectoral policy reforms, like those in Employment Promotion, and to a lesser extent in the
banking sector, can be slowed down by institutional issues and changes in government.
Many of these reforms involve the approval of laws by Parliament, and this process can be
significantly hampered by internal political pressures and weak governance, as in Albania.
*  Timeliness was important for the success of the ARC. Given the crisis situation in Albania at
the time of preparation at the economic, political, and social levels, the close collaboration
between the Bank and the government provided the needed balance of payments support and
a     basis    for    continuing      dialogue    and      fruitful   cooperation.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit 3015-AL)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1. Background In the 1992-1996 period, 22 projects were approved for Albania. The Bank
undertook six operations in the agriculture sector, since this sector would have the largest impact
on poverty reduction.  Transport infrastructure received three IDA operations focusing on
national and rural roads, and there were two operations in the energy sector and seven on human
resource development (including health, education, and the social safety net). The urban sector
received two IDA credits, one to support the housing sector and a second one to deliver'
microcredit and small urban works by participatory means. The industry and finance sectors
were the focus of an Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC) which
supported the development of the banking system, the continued privatization in the industrial
sector, and the liquidation or downsizing of non-viable SOEs. The Technical Assistance for
Economic Reform project also supported the Government's privatization efforts.
2. Following the 1997 crisis, sparked by the mushrooming of pyramid schemes, which disrupted
political, economic and social life in Albania, the donor community moved rapidly to assist the
country in the preparation of a Recovery Program outlining priority areas for policy reforms and
investments in the post-crisis period. The Recovery Program was structured around three main
themes: (1) governance, institution building and civil society; (2) economic and social policies;
and (3) reviving of economic activities.
3. The Program envisaged two stages for the country's recovery. The first stage involved
implementation of a set of initial measures to undertake macroeconomic stabilization, and a
limited number of high priority structural reforms. The measures were supported by a six-month
IMF Emergency Assistance Program approved on November 7, 1997. The World Bank (WB)
contributed to this first stage of recovery with emergency balance of payments support under the
Albania Rehabilitation Credit (ARC), and a Recovery Program Technical Assistance project
designed to help the ARC in reform implementation. The World Bank secured implementation of
the recovery program through the disbursement of the second tranches of two IDA adjustment
lending operations: the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (2524-AL) and the Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (2649-AL). In addition, to provide financing for the winding
down of pyramid schemes, a special technical assistance program was created with funds
committed by IDA and cofinanced by five other donors.
4. Satisfactory implementation of measures under the ARC, including those measures to be
taken after Board presentation, were critical for the IMF and the IDA to move forward into the
second stage of assistance, based on a three-year IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) arrangement, (approved in May 1998), which followed the Fund's Emergency Assistance
Program. The ESAF will be accompanied by an IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) (under
preparation), which will focus on strengthening the public administration, in addition to



2
supporting judicial reforms, banking and enterprise privatization, agricultural reforms, and
reforms in social protection.
5. Albania's steady recovery path after the 1997 disturbances was threatened once again in
September 1998, when the Government collapsed very briefly during an attempted coup d'etat by
the opposition leader. The coup failed but the Prime Minister resigned and a new Government
was appointed. The incident had no apparent impact on the economy but it slowed down
operations.
6. Statement of Objectives. The ARC, as envisaged in the President's Report, provided quick-
disbursing financial support for the first set of structural measures to be implemented by the
Government after the 1997 crisis.  These structural reforms addressed some of the key
weaknesses which contributed to the crisis, and aimed at alleviating increased poverty and
unemployment levels. Specifically, the ARC supported: (i) the unwinding of the pyramid scheme
companies; (ii) reforms in the banking sector; (iii) the strengthening the social safety net; and (iv)
employment promotion. Performance of the ARC is based on the achievement of reforms under
the above mentioned categories, which are expanded below. Reforms were to be achieved by the
time of Board approval, except for follow-up measures, which were meant to ensure continuity to
the next adjustment operations but were not legally binding to the ARC. (See Appendix I for a
matrix outlining these reforms, as they appeared in the President's Report).
7. Pyramid schemes. Establishing full control of the pyramid scheme companies was essential
to ensuring a successful post-crisis recovery program and restoring economic and social activity
in Albania. The ARC supported the appointment of external administrators for the five large
schemes that had not declared bankruptcy by the end of 1997.  In addition, the ARC
recommended, as a follow-up measure, the Government's appointment of external administrators
and auditors for the remaining twelve pyramid schemes by December 1997.
8. Banking sector reform. A functioning banking sector needs to be in place in Albania to
promote efficient intermediation of financial resources towards productive uses and to help
minimize the recurrence of pyramid schemes in the future.
9. First, there was a need to increase competition in, and enhance performance of the banking
system through greater private sector participation. To this end, the ARC supported measures to
prepare Albania's three state-owned banks for privatization or liquidation, which involved, as
first steps, restricting lending for the three banks, approving terms of reference for foreign
administrators for the national Commercial Bank (NCB) and the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB),
and ceasing intermediation of foreign donor commercial credit lines through the three state banks.
Follow-up measures set deadlines for the appointment of Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) for the
NCB and RCB, the liquidation (if not privatized) of the NCB, the liquidation of the RCB, the
transfer of foreign donor credit lines to private banks, the conversion of the Savings Bank (SB)
into narrow bank in preparation for privatization and its compensation for services rendered to the
Treasury, and amendments to the law(s) on Privatization of State-Owned Banks.
10. Second, there was a need to provide adequate infrastructural and institutional support to
ensure that the newly privatized banks and potential new entrants into the system conduct
banking businesses in accordance with commercial principles. To this end, the ARC supported
the approval of the terms of reference for the audits of the NCB and SB. Follow-up measures set
deadlines for the completion of audits, the implementation of international accounting standards
for the RCB and the SB, and the establishment of a work-out agency/resolution trust to collect
bad loans under a terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.



3
11. (iii) Social safety net. Protecting the increased number of impoverished households was, and
continues to be, an essential need in Albania. The ARC supported the strengthening of the
Ndihma Ekonomike (NE), a cash benefit scheme which is the main poverty alleviation program
in Albania, which suffered from reductions in revenues, damages to local offices, and a drop in
the real level of benefits, as a result of the 1997 crisis. The measures supported by the ARC
included, firstly, ensuring the payment of the full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits
to the local authority through the block grant in November and December, 1997, and introducing
into the 1998 draft budget an increase of 10 percent in social assistance benefits; follow-up
measures set January 1, 1998 as the date for implementing the payment of budget allocations.
12. Secondly, the ARC supported measures to improve the basic living conditions for the
institutionalized elderly and orphans by introducing into the 1998 draft budget, early release (in
April 1998) of the capital investment budget for social welfare institutions for the elderly and
orphans and following up to this policy by establishing guidelines for Non Governmental
Organizations' (NGOs) involvement in launching foster parenting and home care for the sick and
elderly.
13. (iv) Employment Promotion. The unemployment insurance program was in need of reform to
improve efficiency. The ARC supported measures to increase transparency in the budgeting of
unemployment benefits; this required the presentation of an agreement between the Ministry of
Labor and the Ministry of Finance on the transfer of responsibility for the payment of
unemployment benefits from the Labor offices to the Social Insurance Institute (SIT). This also
allowed labor offices to focus on cost effective labor services. In addition, the ARC required the
presentation of a proposal on the accounting procedures between the SII and the Treasury for the
unemployment insurance program for IDA review, and it recommended the implementation of a
new accounting system by March 1998.
14. Other measures supported by the ARC in this field aimed at reducing the costs of the
unemployment benefits, by introducing proposals for adjustment to social insurance legislation to
tighten the link between contributions and benefits on unemployment benefits. As a follow-up,
adjustments to the social insurance legislation, and adoption of the Employment Promotion Law
satisfactory to IDA, was to be adopted by March 1998.
15. Ensuring the functioning of community works programs was also a priority of the ARC in
this area, since they employ social insurance claimants in addition to rehabilitating needed
infrastructure.  However, it is important that community works programs are not solely
established to employ social assistance claimants and that these works are justified by sound
economic criteria and implemented by capable and effective agencies. The ARC required the
presentation of a terms of Reference for the National Committee on Public/Community works,
satisfactory to IDA, and the appointment of a National Committee on Public/Community works
to define criteria and procedures for operating these programs. As a follow-up measure, the ARC
suggested the development of an action plan and guidelines on community works programs,
satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
16. Evaluation of Objectives. The one-tranche Credit set a number of ambitious but realistic
policy reforms to be taken before Board Presentation. This set of reforms was crucial for the
fulfillment of the Credit's main objective of addressing the key structural weaknesses which
contributed to the crisis and on alleviating the burden on the poor caused by the crisis. The
successful implementation of the ARC was important for ensuring a smooth move towards the
second stage of economic recovery, which will include additional IMF and IDA support.



4
B. Achievement of Objectives
17. Achievement of the project objectives was satisfactory. All necessary measures regarding the
resolution of the pyramid schemes, reform of the banking sector, strengthening of the social
safety net, and employment promotion were adopted prior to Board approval, as originally
envisaged.
18. The follow-up measures to be adopted after Board approval, designed to ensure continuity
with future operations and not legally binding to the ARC, were partially achieved. There was
significant progress in the implementation of the these measures for the winding up of the
pyramid schemes and in the banking sector, while progress was slower in employment promotion
and the social safety net, where major institutional changes were not achieved.
19. There was significant progress in restoring macroeconomic stability after the crisis. The
hiking of the Value Added Tax (VAT) from 12.5 to 20 percent helped contain the domestically
financed fiscal deficit to 11% in 1997, well below the targeted level. Inflation slowed down,
confidence in the lek was recovered, and internal security improved. Economic activity picked
up in the second half of 1997, limiting the year decline in GDP to seven percent. Progress on
reforms supported by the ARC is analyzed below.
20. Dismantling the Pyramid Schemes. No known pyramid scheme operates in Albania today,
and progress in unwinding existing schemes is substantial. In terms of the measures supported by
the ARC, qualified administrators from Deloitte and Touche were appointed in November 1997
to wind up the five large schemes which had remained operative in 1997, and are currently in the
process of auctioning recovered assets successfully. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) performed
the audit of these schemes. In addition, and in accordance with the ARC's follow-up measures,
in April 1998, PwC consultants were appointed as administrators and auditors of the remaining
twelve smaller companies identified by the Government as having operated pyramid schemes, all
of which had ceased operations by February 1997. PwC is focusing work on those schemes
whose assets have been recovered. The work on the pyramids will be extended from end-
December 1998 to end-March 1999, due to the disturbances of September 1998.
21. Banking Sector Reform. Specific actions supported by the ARC in this sector are now in
place. (i) Concerning measures aimed at enhancing private sector participation, the following has
been accomplished to this day:
22. RCB. As of December 31, 1997, the banking operations of the RCB were suspended, and the
majority of the deposits, and a corresponding amount of illiquid assets were transferred to the SB.
The remaining assets and liabilities have been transferred to the newly established Bank Assets
and Resolutions Trust (BART). A senior staff of Ministry of Finance (MoF) has been put in
charge of transferring the foreign credit lines of the RCB. The remainder of the RCB was closed
at end-March 1998, well ahead of the targeted deadline of end-June 1998. The existing gap
between the transferred liabilities and assets of the RCB has not been compensated for by MoF,
and the audit report on its closure has not been finalized. Some delays are attributed to the
disruption in September 1998.
23. NCB. The Government has appointed a foreign CEO and a team of foreign bankers for the
NCB based on a terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to restructure and privatize the bank.
Presently, six potential strategic investors are interested in the NCB. Presentations for the NCB
and the MoF from these potential investors was postponed as a result of the adverse September
developments in Albania, but were rescheduled for December. Over 50 percent of the NCB will



5
be sold to a strategic private investor and the rest will be shared between the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC).
There are strong prospects for the bank's privatization by June 1999.
24. SB. A governance contract was signed in May 1998 for the SB, which provided for the
participation of a reputable foreign bank in managing the bank and preparing it for privatization
by end-1999. Progress in implementing the contract has fallen behind schedule due in part to the
adverse developments in September 1998.
25. (ii) Concerning the provision of adequate infrastructural and institutional support, the
following has been accomplished:
26. In accordance with the follow-up measures of the ARC, the People's Assembly enacted the
Bank Assets Resolution Trust Law on April 30, 1998. The BART is responsible for the
collection of the bad loan portfolio of the state banks. The December 12, 1997 Merger and Sale
Agreement between the SB and the RCB earmarked lek 200 million from the liquid assets of the
RCB as working capital for BART, which are temporarily invested in interest-bearing deposits
with the SB.
27. Contract negotiations were completed with one of the Big-Six auditors to carry out the
financial audits of the 1997 accounts for the NCB and the SB and a special audit of the remaining
portfolio of the RCB. The contracts for both tasks were signed on May 11, 1998. Audits for the
SB and RCB are not completed, and the audit for the NCB was finalized in October 1998, slightly
behind schedule. In addition, a new chart of accounts has been established for banks to help
ensure transparent financial reporting consistent with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
The SB and the NCB are implementing the new chart of accounts.
28. Social Safety Net. Improvements in the internal security situation have facilitated the
recovery of the social safety net, and the NE in particular. In general, the NE has been successful
at reaching the poor, yet the civil disturbances of 1997 may have resulted in escalated abuse and
higher leakage of resources to the non-poor. The NE is administered by local governments but is
funded by a central block grant, which was withdrawn by the Ministry of Labor Affairs
(MOLSA) as a result of the civil unrest of 1997. Measures to restore the operation of the social
safety net, like restarting to pay the full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to local
authorities through the block grant in November and December 1997, and raising the average
benefit a further 10 percent to partially offset the real decline, were accomplished.
29. Concerning the improvement of the basic living conditions for the institutionalized elderly
and orphans, the Government agreed to introduce in the draft 1998 budget the early (April 1998)
release of the 1998 capital budget allocation for institutions for the elderly and orphans in a front-
loaded manner, in order to allow institutions to have enough time to complete contractual
arrangements to improve their facilities.  However, the Government has yet to establish
guidelines for NGO involvement in launching foster parenting and home care for the sick and the
elderly. The agreement was that these guidelines were to have been established by June 1998.
30. (iv) Employment Promotion. Although all board conditions were met, progress has been
slow in the compliance with the follow-up measures in this area. Concerning efforts to provide
transparent accounting and efficient delivery of benefits, an agreement was reached with the Bank
to reduce the duration, level and eligibility of unemployment benefits in order to allow for a
reduction in the tax rate for the unemployment insurance program (the tax is currently 6 percent
of wages, high enough to create distortions in the labor market and to contribute to the growing



6
informalization of the economy). However, the Government has not adopted adjustments to
social insurance legislation reflecting these changes; it was agreed that as a follow up, these
changes should be adopted by March 1998.
31. In addition, agreement was reached prior to Board presentation on the transfer of
responsibility for the financial accounting and delivery of unemployment benefits, now spread
across the Local Labor Offices, the Treasury Department and the SII, to the SIT. Discussions on
the transfer of benefit payment to local offices of the SII have not had any results yet. A new
financing and accounting system for the unemployment insurance program has not been
implemented. The World Bank received a proposal prior to Board presentation, but the proposal
was found not to be satisfactory. The World Bank sent comments on the proposal but the
Government has not yet responded to the comments. The agreement was that the two measures
should have been adopted by March 1998.
32. The Employment Promotion Law which the Government had agreed to adopt by March 1998
is currently in draft form. IDA has provided comments on this law to the Government, and it is
expected that the law be sent for approval to the parliament before the end of the year.
33. The recent reshuffling of the Cabinet has resulted in the replacement of the Minister of Social
Affairs and Protection. The current Minister appears to be more open to reform measures and the
pending measures on the social safety net and employment promotion fronts may now be
adopted.
34. The government proposed to use ongoing and proposed community works programs to
employ social assistance claimants and to provide screening and monitoring of social assistance
claims. The government provided the Bank with a satisfactory terms of reference for the National
Committee for Community/Public works and appointed a National Committee on
Public/Community Works. The program remains voluntary, up to the discretion of the local
communities. However, an action plan and guidelines on community works programs has not
been developed.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
35. The ARC required the Government and implementing agencies (MOF and MOLSA) to
comply with conditionalities prior to Board presentation. Close cooperation with the Government
and a relative improvement in the security situation at the time of Board approval (December
1997), allowed the ARC to be processed as planned.
36. Two political risks affected implementation of the ARC's follow-up measures: the worsening
of security in September 1998 and the changes in Government which accompanied it. All
ongoing operations in Albania were slowed by the events of September, including the cabinet
changes which ensued, although activity resumed quickly. Delays were significant in audit
completion for the state owned banks, the privatization of the NCB and the SB, and the passing of
the Employment Promotion Law.
D. Project Sustainability
37. Progress achieved under the ARC is sustainable, assuming internal security is maintained,
and assuming that the political commitment to carry out structural reforms persists.  The



7
Government that was appointed in September of 1998 was strongly committed to carrying out the
necessary structural reforms following the advice of and in close cooperation with the donor
community.
38. Other IDA Credits, like Social Safety Net Development, Labor Market Development, and the
future Structural Adjustment Credit, build upon the conditionalities set by the ARC, and
therefore, its sustainability depends also on the success of these projects.
E. Bank Performance
39. Bank performance was satisfactory. The Credit was processed on an accelerated schedule in
order to contribute in the most effective manner to Albania's social and economic recovery after
the 1997 crisis. Close cooperation between the Bank and the Government of Albania facilitated
the process of identification and preparation; given the urgent need for the credit, was prepared
in 45 days. Setting conditions to be met prior to Board approval ensured that the most important
conditions were met, and it allowed the Bank to provide Albania with the proceeds of the ARC in
a single tranche.
40. Given the fact that all conditions binding in the ARC were met prior to Board approval,
supervision missions did not play a large role in this project. There were no specific missions in
order to supervise the follow up measures that were to be adopted by the Government of Albania
after Board.  It was agreed in the President's Report that information on the pace of
implementation of these non-binding conditions of the ARC was to be based on the aide memoirs
and project status reports (PSRs) of other relevant ongoing IDA operations (Technical Assistance
for Economic Reform, Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, Labor Market
Development and Social Safety Net Projects). Some of these documents do not make specific
reference to the follow-up measures of the ARC, therefore, in some cases, like in the social safety
net and employment promotion sections, implementation of these follow up measures was poor.
F. Borrower Performance
41. Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. At the time of preparation there was close
cooperation with the Bank in achieving the policy objectives to be met prior to Board
presentation.
42. The ARC was specifically processed on an accelerated basis by the Bank in order to provide
quick-disbursing emergency assistance to the Government of Albania. The Credit was expected
to become effective soon after Board presentation on December 9, 1997; however, it did not do so
until March 19, 1998. It is difficult to understand why the draw of funds occurred more than
three months after board approval.
G. Assessment of Outcome
43. The project's outcome was satisfactory. All pre-Board conditions set by the ARC as
described in the President's Report were met. Concerning follow up measures, progress was
substantial in the areas of banking reform and the pyramid schemes, and slower and sometimes
incomplete with respect to the social safety net and employment promotion component of the
credit.



8
44. It is important to note that despite progress, poverty and unemployment are still at high levels
in Albania, economic recovery is still fragile, the balance of payments remains weak, and serious
structural problems remain. The ARC was successful in bringing back stability to Albania,
however, much needs to be done by ongoing and future IDA and other donor operations in order
to sustain economic recovery.
H. Future Operations
45. Progress achieved under the ARC will continue through the Recovery Program Technical
Assistance Project, an ongoing operation, which complements the emergency support provided
by the ARC by providing technical assistance to help implement the necessary undertakings in
key areas of banking sector reform, and economic and public policy management. A Structural
Adjustment Credit, currently under preparation, will place central emphasis on strengthening the
public administration, in addition to supporting judicial reforms, banking and enterprise
privatization, agricultural reforms and reforms in social protection. In addition, a Banking
Privatization Project will address issues relating to the privatization of the Savings Bank (SB) and
the further promotion of private banking.
I. Key Lessons Learned
46. The policy measures which were set as conditions to the ARC were helpful in supporting the
resumption of the reform process in Albania. The crisis, although socially and economically
devastating, led to the formation of a Government willing to commit to reform and to cooperate
closely with the donor community, and the ARC was able to take advantage of this and move
ahead with the basic structural reforms.
47. Since the Government was not legally bound to adopt the follow-up measures of the ARC,
some of them were not accomplished; this can be attributed to the fact that: (1) they were not
were not specific to the projects used to monitor the follow-up measures of the ARC; and (2) the
greater Government priority accorded to resolving the problems caused by the pyramid schemes
and in reforming the banking sector than to reforming the social sector, which explains why in
regarding the social safety net and employment promotion, follow-up measures were partially
implemented and at a slow pace.
48. Sectoral policy reforms, like those in Employment Promotion, and to a lesser extent in the
banking sector, can be slowed down by institutional issues and changes in Government. Many of
these reforms involve the approval of laws by Parliament, and this process can be significantly
hampered by internal political pressures and weak governance, as in Albania.
49. Timeliness was important for the success of the ARC. Given the crisis situation in Albania at
the time of preparation at economic, political, and social levels, the close collaboration between
the Bank and the Government provided the needed balance of payments support and a basis for
continuing dialogue and fruitful cooperation.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit No.3015-AL)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual*
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation*
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operation*
Table 7:        Studies Included in Project*
Table 8A:       Project Cost
Table 8B:       Project Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits*
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants*
Table 11:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements*
Table 12:       Bank resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:       Bank Resources: Missions
* Tables 4, 5, 6,7,9,10, and 11 are not included because they are not applicable to the ARC.



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives  Substantial Partial  Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro Policies                 El        D0                       0
Sector Policies                El       IA            [1          C1
Financial Objectives           E         El           El          El
Institutional Development      El        El           0           1E
Physical Objectives            OE O                   OE
Poverty Reduction              EE a                               El
Gender Issues                  EE                     E O
Other social objectives        E        E             El          E
Environmental objectives       E        E             E           0
Public Sector Management       0         0            El          E
Private sector development     E        E             E1          E
Other (specify)                El       El            E           0
B. Project Sustainability     Likely              Unlikely      Uncertain
I                    0            E
C. Bank Performance        Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification/Preparation/     El                                 El
Appraisal
Supervision                     E                     E*           O
D. Borrower performance    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                     El                    El           E
Implementation                  E                     El           O
Covenant Compliance (if applicable) El                El          1E
Operation (if applicable)       0                     El           0
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
El                   0Z           El
* Note: Supervision for the ARC was monitored through the following ongoing projects: Social
Safety Net Development Project (2543-AL), Labor Market Development Project (2544-AL),
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project (3016-AL), Technical Assistance (2492-AL) and
Enterprise and Financial sector Adjustment Credit (2649-AL).



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                              Year of
Loan/Credit Title          Credit           Purpose           Approval        Status
Type
I.Technical Assistance for  TAL   Support implementation of    FY93    Implementation
Economic Reform (2492-AL)          reforms in macroeconomic              nearing
management, enterprise                completion
restructuring and
privatization, and financial
sector reform.
2. Technical Assistance for    TAL   Reform of the              FY93    Under
Social Safety Net                  Government's social                  implementation
Development (2543-AL)              protection system
3. Labor Market            SIL    Assist the Government in      FY94    Under
Development Project (2544-         creating the policy and               implementation
AL)                                institutional conditions for
the development of an
active and responsive labor
market
4. Enterprise and Financial    SAL   Assist the Government in   FY95    Implementation
sector Adjustment Credit           privatizing state owned               completed
(2649-AL)                          enterprises and initiating
reforms of the banking
sector
5. Rehabilitation Credit   SAL   Provide quick-disbursing      FY97    Implementation
(3015-AL)                          funds in support of the               completed
Government's reform
program
6. Technical Assistance    TAL   Support the implementation    FY97    Under
Recovery Program Project           of high priority reforms              Implementation
(3016-AL)                          under the ERP in the
financial sector, public
administration and project
management and
implementation
7. Structural Adjustment   SAL    Support reforms in public     Exp.    Preparation begun
Credit                             administration and the       FY99
Judiciary, agriculture sector
and the social insurance
system



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification/Preparation                                          Sept/Oct, 1997
Appraisal                               October 10, 1997            October 10, 1997
Negotiations                            October 28, 1997            October 28, 1997
Letter of Development Policy                                        November 12, 1997
Board Presentation                      December 9, 1997            December 9, 1997
Signing                                                             December 19, 1997
Effectiveness                                                       March 19, 1998
Loan closing                            December 31, 1998           December 31, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Not applicable - The credit consisted of a one-tranche disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation
Not applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not applicable



13
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ Million)                    (US$ Million)
Item                           Local       Foreign     Total      Local       Foreign  Total
Costs      Costs       Costs      Costs        Cost<,   Costs
1. Rehabilitation Credit          0          25         25          0           25       25
Total                              0         25         25          0           25       25
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ Million)                    (US$ Million)
Item                             Local     Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign   Total
Costs     Costs       Costs       Costs      Costs     Costs
1. IDA                            0          25          25          0         25       25
2. Other External Financing       --         --           --          --        --        --
Total                             0         25            25         0         25       25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Not Applicable
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable



14
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                     Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks        US$(000)      Weeks         US$(000)      Weeks        US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal      15           83.0          16.2          74.7          17.4          82.7
Appraisal                                                 3.2           9.6           3.4           10.4
Negotiations through                                                                  4.6          27.5
Board approval
Supervision                                                                                          .2
Completion                                                               5.0          0.1
Total                         15           83.0          19.4          89.3          25.5         120.8



15
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance Rating
Specialization'
Stage of Project    Month/  No. of    Days                   Implementation   Development  Types of
Cycle             Year     Persons   in                          Status      objectives     Problems3
Field
Through           8/97       5         10     E, F, L, H,O          S              S
Appraisal
Appraisal through   10/97    4                E, H, L               S              S
Board approval    12/97      3                0, F, C
Supervision4
Completion          --        --
ISpecialized Staff skills:    2 Performance Rating:           3 Types of Problems:
E = Economist                  I = Minor Problems             F = Financial
F = Financial Sector Specialist    2 = Moderate Problems      T = Technical
L = Labor Economist            3 = Major Problems             M = Managerial
H = Human Resources Specialist  HS = Highly Satisfactory
O = Operations Analyst         S = Satisfactory
C = Consultant
4 Supervision for the ARC was monitored through the following ongoing projects: Social Safety Net
Development Project (2543-AL), Labor Market Development Project (2544-AL), Technical
Assistance Recovery Project (3016-AL) and Enterprise and Financial sector Adjustment Credit (2649-
AL).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (Credit No.3015-AL)
APPENDIXES
Appendix 1. Policy Matrix
Appendix 2. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix 3. Map



Appendix 1
Albania Rehabilitation Credit - Policy Matrix
Policy Areas: resolution of the pyramid schemes; reform of the banking sector; strengthening the social safety net; and employment promotion.
Objectives                                             Measures Adopted by Board Presentation                 Follow-Up Measures
Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes                      *   Appoint external administrators for the five pyramid  *   Appoint external administrators/auditors for remaining
*   To wind up pyramid schemes                             schemes which have not yet been declared bankrupt --   twelve pyramid schemes by end-December 1997.
that is for Vefa, Silva, M Leka, Karnberi and Cenaj.
Reform of the Banking Sector                           *   Appoint qualified Albanian administrators/CEOs for  *   Appoint by end-January 1998 foreign administrator/CEO
NCB and RCB based on terms of reference agreed with    for RCB (if not closed by then) who will act as
*   To strengthen functioning of the formal banking sector  IDA.                                                  liquidator.
*   Ministry of Finance and Bank of Albania to approve  *   Appoint by end-January 1998 foreign expert as CEO for
terms of reference agreed with IDA for the external    NCB.
administrators/CEOs who will assume full control of  *   Sign governance contract satisfactory to IDA between
RCB and NCB.                                           the government and NCB (represented by the foreign
*   Put in place zero incremental credit ceiling for NCB.  expert appointed as CEO) by end-January 1998.
*   Maintain restriction of no lending by RCB.         *   Sign governance contract satisfactory to IDA between
*   Put in place credit ceiling of Leks 200m. for SB for the  the government and the management of the SB by end-
last quarter of 1997.                                  January 1998 which defines a program of conversion of
*   Approve terms of reference for audits of NCB and SB by  the SB into a "narrow" bank.
accounting firms of international repute.          *   Sign contract with foreign bank by end-January 1998
*   Seek  agreement from  foreign  donors  to  cease       based on terms of reference agreed with IDA to convert
intermediating their commercial credit lines through   SB into a narrow bank and to prepare it for privatization.
RCB, NCB and SB.                                   *   Amend by end-March 1998 the law(s) on Privatization of
*   Accept no new foreign commercial credit lines for RCB,  State-owned Banks to delegate authority from legislative
NCB and SB.                                            to the executive branch for approval of privatization
transactions.
*   Transfer foreign donor commercial credit lines out of
RCB, NCB and SB to private banks by end-March 1998.
*   Establish work-out agency/resolution trust under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
*   Complete implementation of international accounting
standards for NCB and SB by end-March 1998.
* Complete audits for NCB & SB by end-June 1998.
* Liquidate RCB by end-June 1998.
* Compensate SB for services rendered for the Treasury
beginning July 1998.
*   Liquidate NCB by end-1998 if not privatized.



Strengthening the Social Safety Net (Ndihme Ekonomike)
*   To provide adequate and timely payment of social  *   Pay full budgeted amount of social assistance benefits to  *   Implement payment of increased  level of social
assistance payments including partial compensation for  local authority through the block grant in November and  assistance on January 1, 1998 (that is 10 percent above
the loss in real value of social assistance payments since  December, 1997.                                    the average November-December 1997 level of Leks
July 15, 1996                                      *   Introduce into draft budget an increase of 10 percent in  2436 per month).
social assistance benefits above the average November-
December 1997 level (that is Leks 2436 per month)
starting I January 1998.
*   Improve basic living conditions for the institutionalized  *   Introduce into draft budget release by April 1998 of 1998  *   Establish guidelines for NGO involvement in launching
elderly and orphans; develop programs to prevent       capital investment budget for social welfare institutions  foster parenting and home care for the sick and elderly to
institutionalization                                   for elderly and orphans.                                 avoid the institutionalization of these groups by June
1998.
Employment Promotion
*   To  increase  transparency  of the  budgeting  of  *   Introduce proposals for adjustments to social insurance  *   Adopt adjustments to  social insurance  legislation
unemployment benefits; to  reduce  costs  of the       legislation to tighten the link between contributions and  satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
unemployment benefits program by linking benefits to   benefits on unemployment benefits for IDA review.   *   Adopt Employment Promotion Law satisfactory to IDA
contributions, and focus labor offices on cost effective  *   Present agreement between the Ministry of Labor and the  by March 1998.
labor services                                         Ministry of Finance on the transfer of responsibility for  *   Implement new financing and accounting system  for
payment of unemployment benefits from  the Labor        unemployment insurance program by March 1998.
Offices to the Sil.                                *   Develop action plan and guidelines on community works
*   Present proposal on the accounting procedures between   programs, satisfactory to IDA by March 1998.
the Sll and the Treasury for the unemployment insurance
program for IDA review.
*   Present Terms of Reference for the National Committee
on Public/Community Works, satisfactory to IDA.
*   Appoint National Committee on Public/Community
Works including representatives from Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Works to
define criteria and procedures for operating community
works programs.



Appendix 2
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Ministry of Finance
DEBT DEPARTMENT
Bul. "Deshmoret c Kombit", Tirane  Tel: 355 42 292 00  Fax: 355 42 29200
Tirana on MarcWh, 1999
To:   Mrs. Arntraud Hartmann
Country Director
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
From: Anastas Angjeli
Minister of Finance
Subject:    Albania Rehabilitation Credit - Implementation Completion
ReDeort
Dear Mrs. Hartmann,
Thank you for your letter dated February 25, 1999 including the draft of the
Implementation Completion Report on the Rehabilitation Credit. I am pleased to
confirm my consent on the proposed draft of ICR.
Thanking you for your cooperation, I remain
You s sm
Anast ^>AdFjJ  i 
Minis vFw F.42 ~C)



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28467R
1 8'30'   J1 9,00'                                    1 930'       /.20-0'                                   O                          21 '0OO
/          ~~~FED.    REP.                   F YUGOSLAVIA
CRAIA '                                                                                  /   (SERBIA /  OTENEGRO)                                   2O
42~~~~~~~~30                         4, J                 Vafl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ona~~~4'0
ALSi       .      TROPOJE
-J SH-KODER
z R.,~~.
o    SELECTED CITIES~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIT                                               10
-     NATIONAL ROADS~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~L                                      urneh
D1TITBUNDAPIlES                                                              re
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES~MA
~~Vor~~  TIRANE                 BU>Q*.            MACEDONIA
L~    .j.J      RAMSH *.        A
4L -~~~~ge c
9  0   ~~~~2   3,1)   1,0   50                          Mor  4.                     2              /~~~~~~~~~~~0~
KOGMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FE
SWDEN                       RUSSIAN                  VoI1
F~~NlAARJ(          LATVIA\ ~~~~FED.hs
A2~~~4                 M  ~~~~0VE ~~PELENE                                    -
y  V                                      yN                                        1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ersee
POLAND
R(CECH'\UKRZAINE
WREEP
r    ,}J'~~~~~~\G[DOV~"~,AC)IIV
/SWITZ.       AUSTR~   UGR  /*4)0'4'0
~>SRNDE~
GREECE     ~TURKEY
lEDO         2000'                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~20 30'          21 0
JULY 1998



