                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                 November 1, 2011
                                                Report No.: AB6806

Operation Name                     Mexico Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan
Region                             LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Country                            Mexico
Sector                             General public administration sector (60%); Public
                                   administration- Financial Sector (20%); Subnational
                                   government administration (20%)
Operation ID                       P123505
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
Implementing Agency                SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
                                   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
                                   Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
                                   Insurgentes Sur No. 1971, Torre III Piso 3
                                   Col. Guadalupe Inn
                                   México 01020, D.F.
                                   Tel: (52-55) 3688-1216
                                   ricardo_ochoa@hacienda.gob.mx
Date PID Prepared                  November 1, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        December 12, 2011
Estimated Date of Board            January 31, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision

I.     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Institutional and structural reforms associated with Mexico’s fiscal risk management strategy
were fundamental in mitigating the impact of the 2008/09 global financial crisis on public
accounts. The Government’s integrated fiscal mitigation framework has evolved over the years
and incorporates mechanisms to retain, mitigate and transfer risk related to contingent as well as
direct government liabilities. Since 2006, fiscal policy has been guided by the balanced budget
rule and medium-term budgetary framework imbedded in the Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL).
The FRL institutionalized Government efforts to contain fiscal deficits and stabilize debt levels,
while supporting accountability and transparency in the annual budget process. In addition to the
establishment of a balanced budget rule, the law also introduced a formula for calculating oil
prices in budget projections, and established excess oil-revenue stabilization funds.

The saving of revenue in the stabilization funds, Mexico’s oil hedging program and the
allowance of temporary deficits provided the authorities with some space to conduct
countercyclical fiscal policy without jeopardizing long-term sustainability following the 2008/09
sharp contraction and drop in oil price. However, the protracted impact of the crisis on fiscal
accounts worldwide and the impact of the European debt crisis underscore the importance of
designing effective risk management strategies in order to minimize the impact of fiscal shocks.

As the global cyclical recovery wanes, economic growth in Mexico is converging toward the
country’s medium term potential growth rate. Economic growth has moderated to about 3.8
percent in 2011, after posting an annual rate of growth of 3.9 percent during the first half of the
year. Downside risks to growth, associated with a slowdown in U.S. growth and the ongoing
problems in Europe, are significant. Despite the U.S. slowdown, external demand will remain
buoyed by growth in U.S. industrial production and improved Mexican external competitiveness.
Domestic demand will remain expansionary and driven by labor market improvements, credit
growth and infrastructure investment. A more moderate global and domestic economic outlook
will restrain price pressures.

The policies supported in this loan seek to reinforce the Government’s fiscal risk management
strategy and strengthen and institutionalize some of the existing measures. In particular, the loan
supports four key policy areas: (i) budget stability and transparency; (ii) natural disaster risk
management; (iii) financial sector regulation and; (iv) subnational debt management. The
Government’s focus on transparency promoted the improvement of public expenditure efficiency
through results based budgeting, harmonization of accounting standards between the three levels
of Government, and the implementation of a Single Treasury Account (STA). The disaster risk
management strategy was strengthened by the Mexican Government by adopting an integrated
approach, involving the assessment, prevention, and transfer of fiscal risks. With respect to the
financial sector, Mexican authorities introduced a number of policy reforms over the last years to
strengthen the Mexican regulation framework, promote the stability of the banking sector and
increase financial market discipline. To improve subnatioanl debt management at the subnational
level, the Government recently updated bank provisioning rules for subnational borrowing in
order to enhance sound fiscal and financial practices by both lenders and borrowers. Moreover,
harmonization of the public sector accounting systems, via the Accounting Harmonization Law,
is gradually strengthening fiscal sustainability and transparency at the subnational level.

II.    Proposed Objective(s)

The overall development objective of the proposed operation is to support Mexico’s fiscal risk
management policies so as to foster the efficient and effective implementation of public
expenditure programs. This will be achieved by: enhancing budget stability and transparency;
improving the Government’s ability to respond to natural disasters and mitigate the impact of
natural disasters costs on the budget; promoting banking sector stability, macro-prudential
regulation and market discipline in the financial sector; and improving fiscal and debt
management practices at the Federal and Subnational level.
The strengthening of fiscal sustainability has been a long standing objective in Mexico.
Mitigating revenue and expenditure volatility is important due to the effects budget volatility and
unplanned deficits can have on the macroeconomic environment, market confidence, and
ultimately creditworthiness of the country. Policies address near-term fiscal risks that generate
unexpected spending pressures or revenue losses and trigger disruptive ad hoc adjustments
during annual budget implementation.
III.       Preliminary Description

The proposed project is a stand-alone DPL expected to be executed in FY12. It includes four
components: budget stability and transparency; natural disaster risk management; financial sector
regulation; and subnational debt management.

                                Summary of Prior Actions and Outcome Indicators

                                 Policy Area 1: Budget Stability and Transparency

Objective: (i) Improve fiscal and debt management practices

             (ii) Enhance budget stability and transparency

Prior Actions:                                                                  Outcome Indicators:

Improvement of fiscal and debt management practices through the:                Increase in number of active Cetes
                                                                                Directo accounts.
        Broadening of investor base by launching Cetes Directo – an
internet portal promoting the direct purchase of government securities by
small retail investors.



Enhancement of budget stability and transparency through the:

       (a) ISO Certification of systems and processes of the Single Treasury
           Account.

       (b) Regulation that requires coordination between all federal            Increase in annual number of
           government entities and Treasury in the centralization of payments   payments made from the Single
           of subsidy program beneficiaries, payroll, goods and services        Treasury Account.
           providers and pensions.


                                 Policy Area 2: Natural Disaster Risk Management

Objective: Improve the Government’s ability to respond to natural disasters and mitigate the impact of natural
disaster costs on the budget

Prior Actions:                                                                  Outcome Indicators:

Issuance of an Executive decree changing FONDEN rules of operation by:          Average time between a natural
i) allowing Federal and State governments to independently finance and          disaster and FONDEN financed
manage reconstruction activities; (ii) supporting risk mitigation measures      reconstruction  of    damaged
at the State level.                                                             infrastructure.



Issuance of indemnity-based product to cover natural disaster events in
excess of resources available in FONDEN.
                                   Policy Area 3: Financial Sector Regulation

Objective: Promote banking sector stability, macro-prudential regulation and market discipline

Prior Actions:                                                                Outcome Indicators:

Regulation that allows for the supervision of Mexican development             Number of supervisions of Mexican
institutions by the CNBV.                                                     development institutions carried out
                                                                              by the CNBV per year.


Issuance of new regulation allowing banks to issue mortgage backed
covered bonds.                                                                Issuance of mortgage-backed covered
                                                                              bonds by at least one commercial
                                                                              bank.

Reform of the banking resolution framework.

                                 Policy Area 4: Subnational Debt Management

Objective: Enhance fiscal and debt sustainability of state and municipal governments

Prior Actions:                                                                Outcome Indicators:

Adoption of commercial bank regulation linking prudential reserve             Prudential reserves as a proportion of
requirements for lending to subnational entities to a comprehensive set of    bank debt to subnational entities.
fiscal indicators.



The proposed project is in line with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) update which
envisioned an active program of financial services during fiscal year 2012 in response to the
GOM’s request. Fiscal risk mitigation is a key theme of the Government’s program and the
CPS, and the World Bank has conducted extensive analytical work to assist the policy dialogue
in this area. Moreover, the proposed operation is part of a larger programmatic engagement in
fiscal risk management--which includes knowledge services, convening services, development
policy lending and investment lending.


IV.     Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
The main policies supported by this operation will likely have a positive social impact, by
contributing to increase financial inclusion, protect pro-poor program budgets and improve
government efficiency in natural disaster response. A poverty and social impact analysis (PSIA)
will explore how the implementation of these policies translates into improved welfare.

Environment Aspects
The proposed operation will likely have a positive effect on the environment, by providing the
Government with critical funding for implementing measures that mitigate environmental-related
risks and natural disaster impact on the population. In particular, this operation will help the
Government support and strengthen the following areas: (a) disaster risk management
institutional, legal, and policy frameworks; (b) risk identification, assessment, and monitoring
capacity; (c) reduction of underlying risk factors by “building back better?; and (d) effective
response and recovery preparedness.


V.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
Borrower                                                                             n.a.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                               300


                                                                     Total         300




VI.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Jozef Draaisma
Title: Sr Country Economist
Tel: 5782+4208 / 52-55-5480-4208
Email: Jdraaisma1@worldbank.org
Location: Mexico City, Mexico (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Lic. Ricardo Ochoa
Title: Titular de la Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Tel: +525536881216
Email: ricardo_ochoa@hacienda.gob.mx

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
