                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                       Report No: NCO2951



                    NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION
                             (IBRD-81400)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300.75 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                       THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

        FISCAL RISK MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                 May 30, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2014)

                       Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                          MX$1.00 = US$0.07771
                         US$1.00 = MX$12.8680

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         [January 1 – December 31]

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ASF       Auditoría Superior de la Federación (Federal Supreme Audit)
BANSEFI   Banco de Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros S.N.C. (National
          Savings and Financial Services Bank)
CMU       Country Management Unit
CNBV      Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (National Banking and
          Securities Commission
DPL       Development Policy Loan
FONDEN    Fondo de Desastres Naturales (National Fund for Natural Disasters)
FRL       Fiscal Responsibility Law
GoM       Government of Mexico
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
PDO       Program Development Objective
SHCP      Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of Finance and Public
          Credit)
STA       Single Treasury Account
TESOFE    Tesorería de la Federación (Teasury Department)
Vice President:        Jorge Familiar
Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
Sector Manager:        Auguste Tano Kouame
Project Team Leader:   Jozef Draaisma, Andrea Coppola
NCO Team Leader :      Jozef Draaisma
                                   THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                           Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan


                                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i 
   A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................ i 
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i 
   C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i 
   D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................. i 
   E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii 
   F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... ii 
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .................................................. 1 
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .............................................. 2 
3. Assessment of Bank Performance .................................................................................. 7 
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance............................................................................ 8 
5. Lessons Learned.............................................................................................................. 9 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 11 
       (a) Task Team members............................................................................................ 11 
       (b) Staff Time and Cost............................................................................................. 12 
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 13
Annex 3. Comments Received from Government……………………………………….14
Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                               Fiscal Risk
                                                                               Management
Country:                Mexico                     Project Name:
                                                                               Development Policy
                                                                               Loan
Project ID:             P123505                    L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD-81400
NCO Date:               05/28/2014
                                                                               GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                        Borrower:
                                                                               MEXICO
Original Total
                        USD 300.75M                Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.00M
Environmental Category:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process              Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/05/2011       Effectiveness:             09/05/2013
Appraisal:             02/08/2012       Closing:                   11/29/2013         11/29/2013
Approval:              03/22/2012

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                          Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     67
Sub-national government administration                                33




                                                   i
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                       34
Natural disaster management                                     33
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                33
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At NCO                       At Approval
Vice President:          Jorge Familiar                    Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:        Gloria M. Grandolini              Gloria M. Grandolini
Sector Manager:          Auguste Tano Kouame               Auguste Tano Kouame
Program Team Leader:     Jozef Draaisma                    Jozef Draaisma, Andrea Coppola
NCO Team Leader:         Jozef Draaisma



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                     IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/09/2012            Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     02/02/2013            Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      0.00




                                                ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

1.     The Mexico Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan (DPL) is a
US$300,751,879.70 Loan in support of the Government of Mexico (GoM)’s Fiscal Risk
Management Strategy. The loan was approved by the Board on March 22, 2012 as a
single tranche DPL for which all prior actions had been met at the time of loan
negotiations. In accordance with OP 13.00, paragraph 4, the Loan was withdrawn on
September 25, 2013 as it had not been signed within eighteen months after the Board’s
approval of the Loan.

2.    This DPL supported the Government’s efforts to minimize and mitigate short-
term fiscal risks and therefore reduce disruptive adjustments during budget
implementation.

3.     At the time of loan preparation the Mexican economy had recovered from a
severe contraction following the global financial and economic crisis in late 2008 and
early 2009. The authorities continued with fiscal consolidation to unwind the fiscal
stimulus introduced in 2009 and financed, at the time, by non-recurrent revenue.
Stimulus was gradually withdrawn by diminishing budget deficits in 2010, 2011 and
2012, and a plan to return by 2013 to a balanced budget as stipulated in Mexico’s Fiscal
Responsibility Law (FRL).

4.       Over more than a decade Mexico has introduced a strong rules-based monetary
and fiscal policy framework that helps secure macroeconomic stability, enhances
resilience to external shocks, and allows the authorities to implement credible and
adequate policy responses.        The balanced budget rule imbedded in the FRL
institutionalized efforts to contain fiscal deficits and stabilize public debt levels. In
addition, fiscal risk management measures are essential to minimize and mitigate the
impact of shocks on budgetary revenue and expenditure that could lead to highly
disruptive adjustment during budget implementation or undermine the credibility of fiscal
policy if budget balance targets are missed.

5.      Reducing the vulnerability of public finances to major macroeconomic and
external shocks such as oil price, interest rate or exchange rate volatility has been at the
forefront of efforts to strengthen Mexico’s fiscal policy framework. The FRL contains an
oil revenue stabilization mechanism (including a formula to estimate the budgetary oil
price and the incorporation of revenue stabilization funds). A longer standing effort has
been oriented at improving the country’s public debt management, changing the profile
of debt towards a larger proportion of fixed rate, domestic currency debt instruments. In
the area of natural disaster risk management a public expenditure stabilization
mechanism in the form of a multi annual trust fund with annual budget allocations, the
National Fund for Natural Disasters (FONDEN), has been operating since 1996.

6.    The Project’s Development Objective (PDO) was to support Mexico’s fiscal risk
management policies so as to foster the efficient and effective implementation of public
expenditure programs. This was going to be achieved by: (i) supporting Mexico’s



                                             1
integrated risk management approach; (ii) promoting the institutionalization of risk
mitigation policies; and (iii) highlighting critical elements of Mexico’s risk management
framework.

7.      The project focused on three policy areas: budget stability and transparency,
natural disaster risk management, and subnational debt management. Incremental policy
measures, strengthening elements of the country’s fiscal risk management strategy in
each of these areas were identified and were to be supported through the loan including:
(i) the introduction of an internet-based channel for the direct purchase of government
securities by retail investors (Cetes Directo); (ii) the improvement of Mexican Treasury
processes and streamlining of public revenue and payment flows through a Single
Treasury Account; (iii) strengthening of the rules of operation of FONDEN to allow for
more expedient initiation of reconstruction works; (iv) the introduction of indemnity-
based insurance in the operation of FONDEN; and (v) modification of prudential
regulation for bank lending to Subnational Entities.

8.       At the time of preparation, a sharp weakening in the prospects for global
economic activity and high global financial market volatility during the second half of
2011 posed some downside risks to Mexico’s outlook for economic growth and financial
stability. Global financial turbulence and a flight from risky assets was related to weak
economic activity and fiscal problems in the U.S., the sovereign debt crisis in several
European countries and associated weakness in the European banking system.

9.     As identified in the Program Document, the DPL relied on policy actions within
the purview of the Executive as the upcoming presidential elections –July 2012- would
diminish the possibility to construct legislative majorities to support structural reform
proposals.

10.    The preparation, design and quality at entry of the project were satisfactory.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

11.    The Loan was withdrawn on September 25, 2013 as it had not been signed within
eighteen months after the Board’s approval of the Loan. The cancellation is in accordance
with the Bank’s OP 13.00, paragraph 4. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(SHCP) did not sign the Loan on the grounds that it was unable to enter into a “Contrato
de Mandato” with the financial agent National Savings and Financial Services Bank
(BANSEFI) (required for loan effectiveness) without previously assigning the
responsibility of loan implementation to an entity within SHCP or the Federal Public
Administration. The International Affairs Unit of SHCP, which coordinates the overall
program of the Bank with the GoM, participated in the preparation and led the
negotiation of the Loan on behalf of the GoM. The International Affairs Unit was not
able to identify a department within SHCP or the Mexican Public Administration that
was able and willing to take on the responsibility of loan implementation.




                                            2
12.     The need for a loan implementation entity had been identified by staff from the
International Affairs Unit of SHCP and the financial agent BANSEFI at the time of loan
negotiations. Bank staff was made aware of this requirement of the Mexican Public
Administration during loan negotiations. However, the Bank team did not perceive a loan
implementation entity to be critical for the adequate program implementation and
dialogue and instead assessed the issue of a loan implementation entity as an
administrative and internal government requirement. Discussion on the substance of the
policies supported by the DPL as well as on the broader framework of fiscal risk
management took place with different units within SHCP. These include: the Public
Credit Unit on Cetes Directo, public debt management and oil revenue stabilization
mechanisms; the Economic Planning Unit on the overall fiscal risk management
framework and the assessment in the annual budget documents; the Treasury department
on the Single Treasury Account; the Insurance, Pensions and Social Security Unit as well
as the Budgetary Expenditure Policy and Control Unit on natural disaster risk
management; and the Banking, Securities and Savings Unit as well as the National
Banking and Securities Commission and the Unit of Coordination with Subnational
Entities on the prudential regulation for bank lending to Subnational Entities.

13.    Multiple changes in the staffing of the International Affairs Unit of SHCP
between the time of negotiations and withdrawal of the Loan contributed to a delay in
adequately dealing with the issue of a loan implementation entity. Leadership of the unit
changed twice in the referred period, initially early April 2012 (immediately after Board
approval) and subsequently in March 2013 after a new administration had taken office.
In addition, the unit counted with an extended period of interim leadership from the
beginning of the new administration in December 2012 to March 2013.

14.   Other elements that may have contributed to the non-designation of a loan
implementation unit, and therefore may have led to loan withdrawal include:
     Loan negotiations took place about five months before the Presidential elections
      in July 2012. Election times are usually avoided for the preparation and
      negotiation of DPLs in view of the risk to program implementation due to
      changes in political preferences of the newly elected and incoming government.
      This was taken into account as three DPLs that the Bank agreed with the GoM as
      part of the FY12 program were discussed and approved by the Board in March
      2012 (March 1 - Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change, P120170;
      March 13 - Second Programmatic Upper Secondary Education, P126297; and
      March 22 - Fiscal Risk Management, P123505). None of these loans suffered
      from policy reversal or backtracking on institutional actions, and the first two
      DPLs were signed and eventually disbursed in December 2012. The policy and
      institutional actions supported under the Fiscal Risk Management DPL were also
      maintained and eventually expanded by the new administration that took office in
      December 2012, though the change of administration (and staffing of several
      government offices) did not facilitate the assignment of the responsibility of loan
      implementation.
     An audit of the Federal Supreme Audit Office (Auditoría Superior de la
      Federación, ASF), published in April 2012, of a Bank DPL provided in 2009 and


                                           3
        implemented by SHCP (Mexico Economic Policies in Response to the Global
        Crisis DPL, P118070) led to several observations related to an interpretation by
        the auditors of public debt regulation that would require that this type of external
        borrowing should be one-on-one related to specific public expenditure (as in
        investment lending). While SHCP refuted the observations by arguing that it
        does have the faculty to contract loans even when loan proceeds are directed to
        general budget support, the experience may have created a more risk averse
        attitude among public officials and may have created reluctance within SHCP to
        assume the responsibility of loan implementation.
       Mexico has been the recipient of strong private capital flows with record levels of
        net portfolio investment at US$ 73 billion and US$ 48 billion registered in 2012
        and 2013, respectively. A strong interest of foreign investors in Mexican
        government bonds allowed the government to pursue its longer term strategy to
        “finance the Federal Government mainly through domestic debt markets
        maintaining most liabilities in local currency”. The share of federal government
        debt denominated in domestic currency increased from 78.9 percent in 2011 to
        81.0 percent in 2013 as the non-resident holdings of domestic currency
        government bills and bonds increased from 30 to 46 percent over the same period.
        Similarly, the government has been able to finance a larger share of its gross
        external financing needs with resources from international capital markets.
        Whereas 45 percent of federal government gross external financing between
        2009 and 2011 was provided by multilateral development banks, this percentage
        was reduced to 22 percent in 2012 and 2013. This ample availability of private
        capital during 2012 and 2013 was not entirely foreseen at the time of loan
        preparation and negotiation as the second half of 2011 had shown a sharp
        weakening in the prospects for global economic activity and high global financial
        market volatility (see also para.8).
       A surge in Bank lending to Mexico in the years following the global financial
        crisis (US$12.5 billion commitments in FY09-11) led to a rapid increase in the
        Bank’s exposure to Mexico. Mexico is the largest IBRD borrower with an
        outstanding debt of US$ 15.0 billion by December 2013, thereby rapidly
        approaching the Bank’s single borrower limit (SBL), at the time, of US$16.5
        billion. Limiting disbursements of Bank lending during periods of ample
        availability of private capital, such as 2012 and 2013 and thus creating some
        headroom for Bank support in future in case countercyclical lending is needed,
        may have been a consideration on the part of the GoM in not moving forward
        with the effectiveness of this DPL.

15.    Bank staff raised the issue of the delay in DPL signature and effectiveness with
counterparts in the International Affairs Unit of SHCP and BANSEFI on numerous
occasions. In addition to e-mails and verbal communications throughout the period, the
issue was raised in the context of the Bank’s Annual and Spring Meetings, a portfolio
review meeting held in November 2012 as well as other regular meetings between SHCP
and the Bank Country Management Unit (CMU). The DPL supervision mission in
March 2013 provided another formal occasion to highlight the issue and discuss the




                                            4
implications of the delay in signature (as reflected in the aide memoire of the supervision
mission).

16.     The DPL supervision mission of March 2013 confirmed that the government
remains committed to the strengthening of its fiscal risk management framework,
maintaining and building on policy and institutional actions supported under the DPL.
Progress towards the overall PDO, that is, to support Mexico’s fiscal risk management
policies so as to foster the efficient and effective implementation of public sector
expenditure program, was to be measured by outcome indicators related to each of the
policy areas and prior actions supported under to program. A quantitative target for 2012
and a baseline for 2010 were established for each of the outcome indicators. In addition,
a qualitative assessment of policy continuity and follow-up policy and institutional
actions was made.

17.     Outcome indicators for the Cetes Directo program are related to the number of
active accounts and the amount invested. By the end of 2012 the number of active
accounts increased to 25,000, surpassing the target of 15,000. The total amount invested
grew line with the number of users and currently amounts to 1.1 billion MXN pesos,
slightly above the 1 billion MXN pesos targeted. The average account holds
approximately 60,000 MXN pesos, though some have reached the ceiling of 7 million
MXN pesos. The government remains committed to Cetes Directo as a crucial part of
Mexico’s public debt strategy as confirmed by the reference to Cetes Directo in the 2013
and 2014 annual financing plans.

18.    TESOFE continues to roll out the Single Treasury Account (STA) and was able to
include the majority of federal government payroll and pension payments through the
STA. The number of operations channeled through the STA thereby increased to 52.5
million payments in 2012 compared to 15 million in 2010, exceeding the target set at the
time of the DPL (25 million payments) as TESOFE was able to incorporate government
pension payments early in the year.

19.      With regard to the natural disaster risk management strategy, the GoM has
maintained the operating rules for FONDEN that allow the States and Federal
Government to independently finance and manage the reconstruction of State level
infrastructure. This reduced the time between the declaration of a natural disaster and
access to FONDEN resources for infrastructure reconstruction from an average 182 days
for the natural disasters that occurred in 2010 to 136 days for those that occurred in 2012
(with the median declining from 105 days in 2010 to 94 days in 2012). In this respect,
the Program Document included a baseline of 45 days in 2010 and a target of 28 days by
2012. However, the program files do not contain any reference as to how these numbers
were obtained from the publicly available information released by FONDEN. In the
same vein, the information provided by FONDEN did not allow for the estimation of the
outcome indicator on the number of reconstruction programs closed in 2012 as a percent
of total open programs.




                                            5
20.    Continuity in the government’s commitment to incorporate risk transfer
mechanisms as part of its natural disaster risk management strategy has been
demonstrated by the decision of the government to issue in October 2012 its third
parametric catastrophe bond for a period of three years and contract, in July 2012 and
July 2013, annual indemnity-based insurance related to FONDEN. The first indemnity-
based insurance contract had been included as a prior action in the DPL. No specific
outcome indicator was identified related to this prior action, though the involvement of
private insurers (with a “skin in the game”) in the operation of FONDEN, including
damage assessment and valuation of reconstruction costs, has reportedly enhanced
FONDEN’s processes and governance.

21.      Subnational debt continues to increase at rates above the growth of economic
activity. Additional attention to adequate risk assessment and registration with SHCP of
bank lending to subnational entities, further to a resolution of the Banking Commission
(CNBV) that links prudential reserve requirements for this lending to a comprehensive
set of indicators, has led to an increase of the share of bank lending (commercial and
development) to subnational entities reported by Banco de Mexico that has been
adequately registered by SHCP. By December 2010, the subnational debt registry of
SHCP recorded a total subnational debt of MXN 314.7 billion of which MXN 242.6
billion was contracted with commercial and development banks. The latter figure
compared to MXN 279.2 billion of bank lending to subnational entities as reported by
banks to the financial authorities. The registry of SHCP thus covered 86.9 percent of
total bank lending. By December 2012 total subnational debt registered by SHCP
increased to MXN 434.8 billion of which MXN 365.4 billion was the amount reportedly
outstanding to banks. According to bank reports outstanding loans to subnational entities
amounted to MXN 379.6 billion. Thus the percentage of bank lending adequately covered
by the subnational debt registry held by SHCP increased to 93.9 percent. This has been
in line with the program’s outcome indicator that looked for an increase from 86.5
percent to 93 percent of registered debt between December 2010 and December 2012.

22.     In addition, the government is actively supporting legislative initiatives to
introduce a subnational fiscal responsibility framework including a balanced budget rule,
prudential debt limits and federal guaranteed borrowing in case of fiscal adjustment
programs. The Unit of Coordination with Subnational Entities of SHCP also
implemented a modernization project of its subnational debt registry.

23.     Overall progress towards achieving the PDO has been satisfactory. A quantitative
assessment of outcome indicators assembled for the purpose of the DPL shows
satisfactory achievement of all indicators except for those in the area of natural disaster
risk management, where some problems in the design of the indicators have been
signaled. A qualitative assessment of progress toward the PDO shows that in several
areas, the GoM has not only provided continuity to the strengthening of the fiscal risk
management framework but has also taken additional, further steps to enhance the
framework.




                                            6
3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

24.    The preparation, design and quality at entry of the DPL were Satisfactory. Bank
engagement in Mexico in several areas of fiscal risk management has been strong over an
extended period of time. Through a broad range of knowledge, financial and convening
services the Bank assisted the GoM with:
     An integrated financing strategy for managing natural disaster related risks
        including insurance and the transfer of natural disaster risk to capital markets;
     Policies to reduce the vulnerability of agricultural producers and rural
        communities, evaluating the efficiency of interventions in the area of agricultural
        insurance and commodity price risk management;
     Regular assessments of financial sector stability;
     Use of financial instruments to mitigate vulnerability to interest rate and currency
        risk on the outstanding Bank loan portfolio.

25.      The DPL aimed at supporting an integrated risk management approach,
institutionalizing risk mitigation policies and highlighting critical elements of Mexico’s
risk management framework. Prior actions relevant in the context of fiscal risk
management were identified and presented in a context of other recurrent and longer-
standing policies (such as oil price hedging, public debt management, catastrophe bond)
highly relevant for the Mexican approach to fiscal risk management. The DPL provided
an opportunity to disseminate knowledge about the GoM’s overall fiscal risk
management strategy and the Bank’s engagement in the design of some of the critical
building blocks of the strategy to a broader international audience. In this regard, a
south-south cooperation visit by the government of the Philippines to Mexico took place
on July 23-24, 2012 and the Mexican fiscal risk management strategy was presented at
the Bank’s Sovereign Debt Forum held in Washington D.C. on October 29-31, 2012.

26.     The need for an administrative entity within the GoM that was able and willing to
take on the responsibility of overall loan implementation was considered by Bank staff as
an internal requirement of the Mexican Public Administration that was not of essence to
adequate policy implementation and dialogue and only relevant for loan disbursement.

27.     The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. Bank assistance and policy
dialogue continues to take place and advance on several fiscal risk management related
issues with the different Units responsible for the design and implementation of public
policies in SHCP, in particular on natural disaster and agricultural risk management and
insurance.

28.    Throughout the period of program supervision, Bank staff and the program’s task
team leader, based in Mexico City, maintained a dialogue with the government
counterparts on the policies supported by the DPL, the broader framework of fiscal risk
management and requirements for additional Bank support as well as on the delay in DPL
signature and effectiveness. One formal supervision mission took place in March 2013, a


                                            7
year after approval of the Loan, to raise awareness among (recently appointed)
government officials about the DPL and the lack of progress on loan signature,
effectiveness and disbursement as well as to assure continued adequate implementation
of the program and progress towards the outcome indicators. The issue of loan signature,
effectiveness and disbursement was also raised at a portfolio review meeting between the
Bank and SHCP in November 2012 and other regular meetings between SHCP and the
Bank Country Management Unit (CMU), as well as on several occasions through e-mails
and verbal communications with staff from the International Affairs Unit of SHCP and
BANSEFI.

29.     The overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. Project cancellation only
had an impact on Bank lending disbursements, not on attaining the program’s overall
development objective. Both quality at entry and quality of supervision are rated
satisfactory.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

30.      The GoM is at the forefront among emerging market economies in fiscal risk
management and the use of innovative approaches of transferring risks to capital markets.
Policy dialogue on the technical aspects of the overall fiscal risk management strategy as
well as on the areas and specific prior actions supported under the DPL has been smooth
and of high quality, as the staff from the responsible units of SHCP is highly interested in
maintaining exposure to international experience. On the substance of policy and
institutional actions as well as progress achieved towards the PDO, the performance of
the Borrower is considered as fully satisfactory.

31.     The Bank’s lending program is closely coordinated with the International Affairs
Unit of SHCP, which in turn relies on the programming of the Public Credit Unit on the
need for borrowing and the amount of loan disbursements requested from multilateral
financial institutions. The International Affairs Unit of SHCP proceeded with loan
negotiations even though it was aware that the responsibility of loan implementation had
yet to be assigned to an entity in the Mexican Public Administration.

32.    Changes in the staffing of the International Affairs Unit of SHCP between the
time of negotiations and withdrawal of the Loan led to a delay and a lack of ability to
address the issue of loan implementation at an appropriate level within the Public
Administration. Leadership of the unit changed twice in the referred period and included
an extended period of interim leadership at the beginning of the new administration in
December 2012.

33.    With a fully satisfactory performance of the Borrower on policy substance and
progress towards the PDO, but a less than satisfactory performance on loan
implementation and clarity in the communications and intentions with regard to the
signing, effectiveness and eventually disbursement of the DPL, the overall Borrower
performance is considered moderately satisfactory.


                                             8
5. Lessons Learned

34.     The Mexican Public Administration requires that responsibility for program
coordination is assigned to a single, specific department or unit within the administration,
even though support provided through DPL to a program of policy and institutional
actions is often implemented by different areas of government. This requirement may
limit the scope of policy and institutional actions that can be supported to those under the
purview of the coordinating department or, as in the case of the Fiscal Risk Management
DPL, generate an unresolved issue of program coordination forcing the Bank to
eventually withdraw the DPL. Going forward, the Bank may want to assure
government’s internal arrangements are adequately completed at the time of loan
negotiations. In this regard, a draft “Contrato de Mandato” as part of the negotiations
package could provide such assurance.

35.      The use of Bank financial support instruments as well as the range of policies and
institutional actions that can be supported through a single program may be constrained
by a country’s institutional and administrative arrangements. Such arrangements and the
possible impact on adequate program implementation should be part of an
implementation risk assessment as part of program preparation. In the case of Mexico,
observations of an audit by the ASF related to the use of DPL proceeds for general
budget support instead of specific public expenditure (as in investment lending) may have
created some additional risk aversion on behalf of public sector officials with respect to
the use and implementation of this type of instruments. The Bank could initiate a
discussion with auditors and other oversight bodies aimed at explaining the different
financing instruments and identifying any concern that the use of these instruments may
create in the context of institutional and administrative arrangements in Mexico.

36.     The Bank should avoid a critical period around national elections for the
preparation, negotiation and approval of DPLs. Even if the risk to program
implementation due to changes in political preferences of the newly elected and incoming
government could be mitigated by selecting policies and institutional actions about which
there exists a broad based consensus, implementation risks may arise due to changes in
staffing of key government counterpart offices with the change in government.

37.     The Bank’s Operation Policy (OP 13.00) does not specify a deadline for signing
of legal document, though it states that the Bank expects signing to occur as soon as
possible after loan approval. It does also state that if the legal agreements are not signed
18 months after approval, the Bank normally withdraws the loan. The latter is in line
with the policy on effectiveness which states that the legal agreements terminate if the
conditions established for effectiveness are not met by the date specified in the legal
agreements, normally 90 days after signing, but this date does not normally exceed 18
months after loan approval. This implies that the Borrower has little incentive to sign the
loan before it has met effectiveness conditions and assured itself it wants to disburse (part
of) the loan. If these conditions are not met, the Borrower may be better off delaying
loan signature. With both conditions within the purview of the Borrower, as in the case
of this single tranche DPL, the Borrower keeps an option of immediate access to funds



                                             9
without any financial cost involved. A review of Bank policies may be needed if loan
withdrawals due to the lack of signature of legal agreements after 18 months following
approval become a recurrent issue.




                                         10
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Andrea Coppola                        Country Economist             LCSPE
Edith Cortes Angeles                      Consultant                LCSPE
Jozef Draaisma                      Sr Country Economist            LCSPE
David Michael Gould                    Lead Economist               SARCE
Eva M. Gutierrez                Lead Financial Sector Specialist    LCSPF
Rosa Maria Hernandez-
                                       Program Assistant            LCC1C
Fernandez
                                   Disaster Risk Management
Oscar Anil Ishizawa Escudero                                        LCSDU
                                            Specialist
Xiomara A. Morel               Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Angelica Nunez del Campo                 Sr Urban Spec.             LCSDU
Aude-Sophie Rodella                         Economist               LCSPP
Mariangeles Sabella                      Senior Counsel             LEGES
Fabiola Altimari                         Senior Counsel             LEGLE
Katherine M. Scott                      Senior Economist            LCSPP
Juan Carlos Serrano-
                               Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
Machorro
Geeta Sethi                            Program Manager              AES
Natasha Zamecnik                          Consultant               LCSHH
                               Lead Financial Officer/Debt Capital
Luis de la Plaza Bringas                                           FABBK
                                       Markets and CBP

Supervision/NCO
Jozef Draaisma                      Sr Country Economist            LCSPE
Fabiola Altimari                       Senior Counsel               LEGLE
Juan Carlos Serrano          Sr Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
Natasha Zamecnik                          Consultant                LCSHH
                                  Disaster Risk Management
Oscar Anil Ishizawa Escudero                                        LCSDU
                                           Specialist
Rosa Maria Hernandez-
                                      Program Assistant             LCC1C
Fernandez
Karina M. Kashiwamoto            Language Program Assistant         LCC1C
Alejandra Ramón                        Team Assistant               LCC1C




                                              11
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                               USD (including travel and
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                         6.78                39,353.46
FY12                                        42.38               227,121.20
FY13                                         0.00                    65.89
                  Lending Total:            49.16               266,540.55
Supervision/NCO
FY13                                         8.63                54,146.93
FY14                                         9.75                36,383.58
              Supervision Total:            18.38                90,530.51




                                       12
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (2012). Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan: Program
        Document. -- February 14, 2012. – Report No. 64652-MX.

WoldBank (2013). Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan: Aide Memoire. -
        - March 8, 2013.

World Bank (2013). Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan: Implementation
        Status and Results (ISR), -- January 21, 2013. Sequence No. 2.




                                        13
Annex 3. Comments Received from Government

The following comments were received from Mr. Luis Cartas Paredes, Deputy Director
of Fiscal Affairs with Latin American Financial Institutions from the International Affairs
Unit of SHCP, on May 13, 2014 on behalf of the Government:

   a) In regards to paragraph 11 of Section 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons
      for Withdrawal, the Government clarified that even though the International
      Affairs Unit of SHCP led the negotiations of the Loan on behalf of the GoM, the
      Loan Agreement has to be signed by the Public Credit Unit of SHCP.

   b) The Government added a comment to paragraph 12 of Section 2. Post-Approval
      Experience and Reasons for Withdrawal that reads as follows:

             “[…] No unit was able to meet all requirements of the internal
             regulations of the SHCP, so that no unit could be responsible for the
             project.”

   c) Regarding paragraph 31 of Section 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance, the
      Government clarified that the administrative entity within the GoM that would be
      responsible for overall loan implementation is designated in the “Contrato de
      Mandato”, and that the “Contrato de Mandato” is prepared and signed after the
      signature of the Loan. Thus, the International Affairs Unit of SHCP proceeded
      with loan negotiations even though it was aware that the responsibility of loan
      implementation had yet to be assigned to an entity within the Mexican Public
      Administration.

       In view of the above, the Government suggested adding a final remark to
       paragraph 31 which is underlined below:

             “[…] The International Affairs Unit of SHCP proceeded with loan
             negotiations even though it was aware that the responsibility of loan
             implementation had yet to be assigned to an entity in the Mexican
             Public Administration, as this designation is carried out in the
             “Contrato de Mandato.”




                                            14
                      To
                  Los Angeles            115°W                                       110°W                                                  105°W                                             100°W                                       95°W                                90°W                                     85°W
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                        Albuquerque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                      To                                                               Alamogordo
                                                                   Gila Bend
                 Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                                 UNIT ED STAT ES O F A MER I CA
                 Ensanada
                                                    Sonoita
                                     San                                                                                       Ciudad Juárez                                To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                                                   Midland
                                                                    Nogales                                                    Ri o




                                                                                                                                  Rio rav
                                                                                          Agua
                                BAJA                                                      Prieta                                            ra n                                                                                                                             MEXICO




                                                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30°N




                                                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                                                       o           d                               To
                30°N         CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                            San Antonio




                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                    Gu

                                                                         SONORA
                                                                                                            CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                          Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                       lf


                                                                                                                                       Ojinaga                                                                             San Antonio
                                                               Hermosillo                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                          of




                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Houston


                                                                                   er
                                                                                                             Chihuahua                                                           Sal
                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                     ra




                                                                                                                                                                           Sie
                                                                           Guaymas
                                                                al




                                                                                                                                                                                     do
                                                         Santa
                                                                   if




                                                        Rosalia




                                                                                                                                                                            rra
                                                                                          M                              Con
                                                                                                                             chos
                                                                     or




                                                                                            ad                                                                                                 Laredo
                                                  BAJA                         Navojoa                                                                               COAHUILA
                                                                        ni




                                                                                                  re
                                                                                                            Fue
                                               CALIFORNIA                                                       r   te                                                                   Frontera
                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                                 Ma
                                                   SUR                                                                                                                                      NUEVO
                                                                                                   O
                                                               Loreto




                                                                                                                                                                                  dre
                                                                                                       cc

                                                                                Los Mochis                                                                                                   LEON                                                  Gu l f of M e xi co                                                        25°N
                                                                                                       id

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Monterrey               Matamoros
                25°N                                                                                                                                    Torreón
                                                                                                        en

                                                                                                                                                                             Saltíllo
                                                                                                             ta SI




                                                                                                                                                                                          Or
                                                                                                  Culiacán
                                                                                                                l NA


                                                                                                                               DURANGO
                           PAC IF IC                                           La Paz                                                                                                                    TAMAULIPAS




                                                                                                                                                                                           ie
                                                                                                                                  Durango




                                                                                                                                                                                             nt
                                                                                                                         LO




                           OC E AN                                                                                                                                ZACATECAS                                    Ciudad




                                                                                                                                                                                               al
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Victória
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                            Mazatlán
                                                               Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                                               Zacatecas             SAN LUIS
                                                                                      AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                  POTOSI                              Tampico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUERÉTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                            San Luis
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               NAYARIT Aguascalientes                                       Potosí
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YUCATAN             Cancun
                                                                                                                                                       Ler




                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                        Tepic               a                                                          VERACRUZ                                                         Merida
                                                                                                                                                           m




                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                   GUANAJUATO                                                                            Guanajuato                                       HIDALGO
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    110°W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cozumel
                                                                                                                Puerto Vallarta                                      Guadalajara                    Querétaro                                 DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pachuca                      TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                                                                                              20°N                                            JALISCO                                                                                                                                                    QUINTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                               MEXICO
                                MEXI C O                                                                MEXICO                                                              Morelia                                                  Jalapa          Bay of Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY                                                                                                     ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                             Toluca                       Tlaxcala         Veracruz                                                             Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                   Colima                                                                       Citlaltépetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                            COLIMA                   MICHOACAN                                       Puebla                                                      CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                       PUEBLA                                TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Balsas                                                          Villahermosa                                       Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                      GUERRERO             Chilpancingo                                                      Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BELIZE   Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                              um
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sie                Oaxaca                                   CHIAPAS           ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                               Acapulco             rra               OAXACA                           Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            re de                                 Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                   l S u r Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                                          MORELOS                         Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15°N
                                     RAILROADS                                                                      0      100          200              300 Kilometers                                               Escondido                       Gulf of                 GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HONDURAS
NOVEMBER 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tehuantepec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33447R
                                                                                              15°N                                                                                                                                                               Tapachula
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Salvador
                                                                                                                    0     50          100     150          200 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                                                       105°W                                                     100°W                                              95°W                                                  SALVADOR
