Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4142-BEL
Loan Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 14, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4142-BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1997, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund 
(SIF) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to SIF the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the European Union (EU) a grant (the 
EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to assist in financing education 
subprojects under Part A, and Part C of the Project, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the EU Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the EU.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Community Subproject" means a subproject for water and sanitation, 
health, economic infrastructure, education, social services or organizational 
strengthening which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined below); 
(b)
"Education Subproject" means a Community Subproject for the improvement 
of public school buildings, the development of community-based school programs, and/or 
the establishment and/or rehabilitation of public day care and/or preschool facilities 
that is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of either the Loan or some other 
financial source for the Project, such as the EU Grant, all in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined below);
(c)
"Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by SIF pursuant to 
Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement setting forth the procedures for the implementation 
of the Project, including the eligibility of the Community Subprojects;
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 13, 
1996 and April 4, 1996 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e)
"SIF Act" means the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund Act, 1996, Number 3 
of 1996 published in the Gazette on March 30, 1996;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seven 
million dollars ($7,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
`
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiration of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall,  under 
the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, cause SIF to carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, economic, managerial and environmental practices, and shall  take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SIF to carry out the Project, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with the carrying out of the Project by SIF.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available, as a grant, 
to SIF, under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIF, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause SIF to ensure that Community Subprojects 
are appraised, selected, carried out, financed, monitored and supervised in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SIF to: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, and January 31 each year beginning July 31, 1997, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date, including 
any adjustment required to the indicators referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section; and
(c)
(i)
review with the Bank: (A) by February 28 each year beginning 
February 28, 1998 or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this paragraph; and 
(B) by February 28, 2000, in addition to the reports referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this section, its recommendations as to the 
sustainability of SIF as an institution, based on, inter alia, the 
results of evaluations of the efficiency and impact of SIF and the 
Borrower’s social sector policy and strategy; and 
(ii)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank views on the matter. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SIF to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause SIF to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
SIF to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, economic, managerial and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers; and
Page  6
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its offices and other property, 
and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, administrative, and 
environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SIF will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
The SIF Act or the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion 
of the Bank, the ability of SIF to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIF or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The EU Financing Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1997, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the EU Grant or any grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement in 
respect of the Operational Manual shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(c)
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) (other than in respect of the 
Operational Manual) or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
Page  7
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
SIF; and
(b)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by SIF.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SIF and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and SIF in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date August 12, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Telex:
102 (FOREIGN BZ)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By /s/ James Murphy 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Community
Subprojects
(a) Consultants’ ser-   1,020,000
100%
vices and training
(b) Goods
2,100,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expen-
ditures for other items
procured locally
(c) Works
2,200,000
85% 
(2)
Consultants’ services
  900,000
85% of local expen-
under Part B
ditures for services
of the Project
of consultants
domiciled within
the territory of
the Borrower and
100% of foreign 
expenditures for 
services of other
consultants
(3)
Incremental Operating
Costs
(a)
Salaries of SIF’s
  60,000
90%
support staff
(b)
Other incremental
 100,000
100%
operating costs
(4)
Refunding of         365,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
 255,000
TOTAL
     7,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs related to the 
Project of: (i) salaries of SIF’s support staff; (ii) travel of SIF managers and 
professionals; (iii) implementation of training seminars and workshops (including 
Page  9
training materials); and (iv) communications and office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments for: 
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
expenditures for Education Subprojects which EU shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under the EU Financing Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods and works, as the case 
may be, procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Parts B.2 (other than 
those for which prior review of the respective contracting is required under Section 
I, Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), B.3 and B.4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; (b) training; (c) incremental operating costs; and (d) consultants’ 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$15,000 equivalent for individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce poverty in the Borrower’s territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Community Subprojects
Carrying out of Community Subprojects.
Part B:
SIF Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening of  SIF’s management and operational capabilities through the 
provision of the technical assistance required therefor.
2.
Training of SIF’s staff in, inter alia, the use of office technology, methods of 
appraisal and supervision of Community Subprojects, including data collection and 
recording, and environmental issues related to Community Subprojects.
3.
Training of beneficiaries of Community Subprojects and staff of governmental 
agencies and non-governmental organizations in the preparation, evaluation, and 
execution of Community Subprojects through seminars and workshops, and production and 
dissemination of the training materials required therefor.
Part C:
Microenterprises
Provision of credit to community-based microenterprises.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 2002
290,000 
May 15, 2003
290,000 
November 15, 2003
290,000 
May 15, 2004
290,000 
November 15, 2004
290,000 
May 15, 2005
290,000 
November 15, 2005
290,000 
May 15, 2006
290,000 
November 15, 2006
290,000 
Page  10
May 15, 2007
290,000 
November 15, 2007
290,000 
May 15, 2008
290,000 
November 15, 2008
290,000 
May 15, 2009
290,000 
November 15, 2009
290,000 
May 15, 2010
290,000 
November 15, 2010
290,000 
May 15, 2011
290,000 
November 15, 2011
290,000 
May 15, 2012
290,000 
November 15, 2012
290,000 
May 15, 2013
290,000 
November 15, 2013
290,000 
May 15, 2014
330,000
          Total
    7,000,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Specific Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may, and (b) except as 
otherwise provided in paragraph 4 hereof, works shall, be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part B.2, the Borrower 
shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Page  11
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured pursuant to the provisions 
of Part B.1 hereof; and (b) the first two contracts for goods and for works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $15,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (l) , (2), and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  Parts A and B of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  12
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A 
and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
Page  13
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
