Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4142-1-BEL
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Loan Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 23, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4142-1-BEL
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 2001 between BELIZE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower and the Bank have entered into a Loan 
Agreement (Social Investment Fund Project), dated May 14, 1997 (the 
Loan Agreement), as amended by means of a letter from the Bank to 
the Borrower dated April 17, 1998 and countersigned by the Borrower 
on May 8, 1998, providing for a loan in the amount of US$7,000,000 
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the Project);
Page  2
(B)
The Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the 
amount made available under the Loan Agreement by an amount equal 
to US$1,400,000;
(C)
The Borrower continues to be committed to the objectives of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a) 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the 
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, dated April 23, 
2001;
(b) 
‘Community Subproject’ means a subproject for water and 
sanitation, health, economic infrastructure, education, social 
services or organizational strengthening which is eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined below); 
(c)
‘Education Subproject’ means a Community Subproject for 
the improvement of public school buildings, the development of 
community-based school programs, and/or the establishment and/or 
rehabilitation of public day care and/or preschool facilities that 
is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of either the Loan or 
some other financial source for the Project, such as the EU Grant, 
all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as 
defined below);
(d)
‘Financial Management Report’ means a periodic financial 
management report prepared by the Borrower, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, which: (i) describes physical progress in 
Project Implementation, including the status of procurement; and 
(ii) sets forth: (A) the sources and applications of funds for the 
Project (including expenditures incurred for the Project, showing 
separately those to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan); 
(B) the amounts deposited into and paid out of the Special Account; 
and (C) a forecast of expenditures to be incurred for the Project;
(e)
‘First Tranche’ means an amount equal to seven million 
Page  3
Dollars ($7,000,000) for the financing of the Project; 
(f)
‘Operational Manual’ means the manual to be adopted by 
SIF pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement setting forth 
the procedures for the implementation of the Project, including the 
eligibility of the Community Subprojects;
(g)
‘Project Preparation Advance’ means the project 
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to 
an exchange of letters dated March 13, 1996 and April 4, 1996 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)
‘Second Tranche’ means an amount equal to one million 
four hundred thousand Dollars ($1,400,000) for the financing of the 
Project;
(i)
‘SIF Act’ means the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund 
Act, 1996, Number 3 of 1996 published in the Gazette on March 30, 
1996;
(j)
‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan  Agreement; and
(k)
‘Subsidiary Agreement’ means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of 
the Loan Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement, an amount equal to eight million four hundred 
thousand Dollars ($8,400,000). The Loan shall be divided into 
the First Tranche and the Second Tranche."
Section 1.03. The following paragraph is added at the end of 
Section 2.02:
"(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all amounts 
withdrawn from the Loan Account or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall initially be charged against the First 
Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, and shall 
thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche."
Section 1.04. Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date."
Section 1.05. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 to 
read as follows:
"; provided, however that commitment charges on the 
Page  4
unwithdrawn amounts of the Second Tranche shall accrue from a 
date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.06. Section 2.05 (b) (iv) (A) is amended to read as 
follows:
"(iv) ‘LIBOR Total Spread’ means for each Interest Period: (A) 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) in respect of the First 
Tranche, and three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) in 
respect of the Second Tranche;"
Section 1.07. Section 2.07 is amended in its entirety to read 
as follows:
"Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount 
of the First Tranche and the Second Tranche of the Loan in 
accordance with the relevant amortization schedule set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement."
Section 1.08. A new Section 2.08 is inserted to read as 
follows:
"Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end 
fee in an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of 
the Second Tranche. The Borrower agrees that, on or promptly 
after the date on which the Amending Agreement comes into 
force and effect, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
such fee."
Section 1.09. Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement.
Section 1.10. Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Agreement.
Section 1.11. Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended in 
its entirety to read as set forth in Annex 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the 
Bank that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of 
the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant 
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Page  5
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect 
on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice 
of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by July 23, 2001 this Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes 
a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement 
shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Loan 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By  /s/ Lisa Shoman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
    By  /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Annex 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of
the First Tranche of the Second Tranche of
the Loan Allocated  the Loan Allocated
% of
   (Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
Dollars)
to be 
Page  6
Financed
(1)
Community
Subprojects
  (a)
Consultants’
     200,000
0
100%
    Services and
    Training
(b) Goods
1,144,000
200,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures
and of 
local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost); and
85% of 
local
expenditures for
other 
items
procured 
locally
(c) Works
4,490,000
1,133,000
85%
(2)
Consultants’
636,000
12,000
85% of 
local
services under
expenditures for
Part B of
services 
of
of the Project
consultants
domiciled 
within
the 
territory
of the 
Borrower
and 100% 
of
foreign
expenditures
for 
services
of other
consultants
Page  7
(3)
Incremental
Operating
Costs
(a) Salaries of
101,000
7,000
90%
SIF’s support
Staff
(b) Other incremental
167,000
34,000
100%
costs
(4)
Refunding of 
262,000
0
Amounts 
due
Project Preparation
pursuant 
to
Advance
Section 
2.02 (b)
of the 
Loan
Agreement
(5)
Front-end Fee
0
14,000
Amounts 
due
pursuant 
to
Section 
2.08
of the 
Loan
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
0
0
TOTAL
7,000,000
1,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs 
related to the Project of: (i) salaries of SIF’s support staff; 
(ii) travel of SIF managers and professionals; (iii) implementation 
of training seminars and workshops (including training materials); 
and (iv) communications and office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for: 
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
Page  8
(b)
expenditures for Education Subprojects which EU shall 
have financed or agreed to finance under the EU Financing 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require: (a) that all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be made on the basis of Financial Management Reports 
and be deposited into the Special Account; or (b) that withdrawals 
from the Loan Account for expenditures: (i) for goods and works 
contracts, as the case may be, procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Parts B.2 (other than those for which 
prior review of the respective contracting is required under 
Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), B.3 and B.4 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) training; (iii) incremental 
operating costs; and (iv) consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$15,000 equivalent for individual consultants, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Annex 2
"SCHEDULE 3
1. 
Amortization Schedule for the First Tranche of the Loan
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2002
through November 15, 2013
290,000 
On May 15, 2014
330,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to 
be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the 
General Conditions.
2. 
Amortization Schedule for the Second Tranche of the Loan
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
Page  9
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2006
through November 15, 2017
60,000 
On May 15, 2018
20,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to 
be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04.(d) of the General 
Conditions.
Page  10
Annex 3
"SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall not be procured rejecting bids outside a 
range or bracket of bid values (bracketing). Goods and works shall 
be procured in accordance with the Provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996, 
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in part C of this Section goods 
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the  Guidelines and paragraph 
5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $987,000 
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and (b) except as 
otherwise provided in paragraph 3 hereof, works to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,655,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works in 
accordance with this Part B.2, the Borrower shall use standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $870,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,033,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
Page  11
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Also, 
prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
form and content of the bidding documents shall be reviewed and 
approved by the Bank. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured pursuant 
to the provisions of Part B hereof; and (b) the first two contracts 
for goods and for works procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  12
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ 
services to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services for strengthening SFI’s management and 
capabilities; training of SIF staff in, inter alia, the use of 
office technology, methods of appraisal and supervision of 
Community Subprojects, including data collection and recording, and 
environmental issues related to Community Subprojects; training of 
beneficiaries of Community Subprojects, staff of governmental 
agencies and non-governmental organizations in the preparation, 
evaluation and execution of Community Subprojects through seminars, 
workshops, production and dissemination of the training materials 
required therefor under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms  estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
   (b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 
or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
Page  13
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
