                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 25398-BZ

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (SCL-41420; SCL-41421; PPFB-P2880)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION

                            AND A SUPPLEMENTAL LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.4 MILLION

                                            TO

                                         BELIZE

                                          FOR A

                         SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                                       June 30, 2003




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit, Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective : B$ fixed to US$)

                             Currency Unit = Belize Dollar (B$)
                                    B$1.00 = US$ 0.50
                                  US$ 1.00 = B$ 2.00

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                           April 1- March 31 (Government)
                              January 1- December 31 (SIF)

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNTF     Basic Needs Trust Fund
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-based Organization
CDB      Caribbean Development Bank
DFID     Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
EU       European Union
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
LSMS     Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS      Management Information System
N.B.F.   Not Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAHO     Pan-American Health Organization
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Japan Trust Fund
PMR      Project Management Report
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SIF      Social Investment Fund
SPEAR
WASA     Water and Sewerage Authority




                            Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                 Country Manager/Director:       Caroline D. Anstey
                   Sector Manager/Director:      Ana-María Arriagada
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         David Warren

                                            BELIZE
                         SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P039292                                                      Project Name: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Team Leader: David Seth Warren                                           TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-41420; SCL-41421;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2880
   Country/Department: BELIZE                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (34%); Health (7%);
                            Other social services (7%); General education sector (46%); Roads &
                            highways (6%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P); Social risk
                            reduction (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Other social
                            protection and risk management (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/18/1995                                        Effective: 07/01/1997              08/04/1997
   Appraisal:    10/07/1996                                            MTR: 02/28/2000                06/02/2000
    Approval:    03/18/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          BELIZE/SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
                      Other Partners:      EUROPEAN UNION

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:                 Ana-María Arriagada                            Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:             David Seth Warren                              Hideki Mori
ICR Primary Author:             Willem Struben


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the Social Investment Fund Project (SIF) was to improve the access of the poor in
relatively disadvantaged communities of Belize to basic social and economic infrastructure and services,
largely by supporting small-scale projects, identified and implemented with a high degree of community
participation.

At the time of appraisal, and during project implementation, this objective responded to several of the social
sector priorities outlined in the Government's National Development Strategy 1996 ­ 2000. Subsequent
studies and reports have reconfirmed the importance of this objective, including the Government's National
Poverty Elimination Strategy and Action Plan, and the report of the National Human Development
Advisory Committee (1999). As detailed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the
Board of Executive Directors on September 5, 2000, "the over-arching goal of the Government's
development strategy is to reduce poverty from 33 percent of the population in 1999 to no more than 28
percent by the end of 2004. One of the main pillars of this objective is to improve the access and quality of
social services, particularly in the poorer districts of Toledo, Cayo, and Stann Creek."

The Government of Belize specifically identified, and periodically reconfirmed, the SIF as one of its key
instruments for implementing these poverty reduction activities, including through:


§    Provision of potable water supplies to rural communities;
§    Provision of health education services to the poor;
§    Rehabilitation/construction of health posts;
§    Distribution of training materials for community health workers;
§    Improvement of the feeder road systems, including drainage and small pedestrian bridges;
§    Promotion of the use of latrines where other sewerage disposal systems were not practical;
§    Provision of community training in the management of solid waste; and
§    Provision of credit and training for micro-enterprises.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objective was not changed. However, the agreed focus on the poorer communities was
temporarily "frozen" when Belize was hit by Hurricane Keith in early October 2000 and by Hurricanes
Chantal and Iris in the fall of 2001. These natural disasters forced the SIF to address technical repair and
rehabilitation activities throughout the country. To help meet the emergency needs, the Government
requested and received a supplemental loan in the amount of US$1.4 million to compensate for the amount
of the loan that was diverted, with Bank agreement, for urgent repair and rehabilitation activities. The SIF
also received about US$0.4 million from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to repair a number
of educational infrastructure projects, about US$0.1 million from the Pan-American Health Organization
(PAHO) for health center repair, US$1.6 million from the Department for International Development
(DFID) of the United Kingdom to implement seven projects, including two that related to post-hurricane
rehabilitation and disaster preparedness, and about US$0.3 million originally allocated to the Basic Needs
Trust Fund (BNTF). It should be noted that the tables in this report do not cover the contributions from the
additional donors.

Due to the country's emergency needs and the SIF's unique ability to respond quickly, this temporary
divergence from the project's focus on "relatively disadvantaged" communities was more than justified. In
addition, it should be noted that, because of their inadequate infrastructure, it is normally the country's
poorer areas which suffer disproportionately from natural disasters.



                                                       - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve its objective, the loan planned to finance, over a 4.5 year period (extended to 5.5 years to deal
with the delays caused by the hurricanes), infrastructure rehabilitation and construction, social programs,
studies, training activities, equipment and vehicles, and operational costs. This was to be supplemented by
European Union (EU) support for some schools and a micro-credit program. Details on each of the
components are below:

Project Component 1 - Community Sub-Projects - US$7.9 million

This component was designed to provide support from the loan and from the EU for community projects
(EU support was limited to schools) sponsored by public or private organizations able to design community
sub-projects meeting the SIF's established review criteria. Community sub-project generation was designed
to be demand-driven, but to target the poorest communities, also included promotional efforts to develop
institutional capacity as needed. Communities were expected to make a 5 ­ 10 percent cash or in-kind
contribution, depending on the type of community projects.

Project Component 2 - Micro-Enterprise Credit - US$1.2 million

This component, funded by the EU, was designed to provide loans to community-based micro-enterprises.
Loan management and training for community groups was to be sub-contracted to an non-governmental
organization (NGO) or a financial intermediary with demonstrated experience.

Project Component 3 - SIF Institutional Support - US$2.2 million

This component was designed to provide institutional support to develop a viable, autonomous institution to
manage the project and to finance its administrative and operation costs.

The project implementation experience and interviews with a wide variety of stakeholders confirm that
these components were appropriate, and formed an integral part of the Government's policy aimed at
providing the poorer communities with better access to critically important infrastructure and services.

3.4 Revised Components:
All project activities were implemented, although some more quickly and to a greater extent than others.
As noted in Section 3.2, in response to a change in the country's needs, and given the SIF's ability to
implement projects quickly, the SIF contributed substantially to the repair and rehabilitation of
infrastructure damaged or destroyed by hurricanes, activities in addition to the SIF's regular,
poverty-targeted investments.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
As explained below, preparation of the Community Sub-projects Component was considered well done, and
quality at entry was in general considered satisfactory. Since the EU mission to assess the results of the
EU-funded Micro-enterprise Credit Component was postponed beyond the timing of this report, and
insufficient information is available to reach an objective conclusion, the preparation of this component has
not been rated. In any case, it should be noted that this activity was managed by an NGO, completely
separately and outside the SIF headquarters, and therefore had no impact on the major SIF component and
its assessment.

The SIF was designed with considerable technical support from the Bank, including the management of a



                                                      - 3 -

Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant (PHRD) in the amount of US$135,000 and a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance in the amount of US$261,000. This means that, at project
launch, the SIF had key staff in place, an office, vehicles and equipment, a management information system
(MIS), and a detailed Operational Manual, which was tested and developed during the pre-project pilot
phase of the infrastructure activities. The micro-enterprise activities, to be funded solely by the EU, were
not ready to start at project launch, mainly due to a delay in the signing of the Lome Agreement. The EU
agreement was finally signed at the end of 1998.

The project's quality at entry can be considered from several perspectives:

Relevance:
As mentioned above, the project objective was, and the activities were, consistent with the Government's
poverty reduction focus and with the priorities outlined by the Bank in the CAS.

Knowledge and Lessons Learned:
Project design fully reflected the lessons learnt from the Bank's experience in financing SIFs in the Latin
America and Caribbean Region and other regions. It also drew upon the Bank's lending experience in
Belize and upon the SIF pilot phase experience.

    Lessons Learned from Other SIFs: These showed the need for:
    §    Well paid, qualified staff, with a director with proven management experience;
    §    Political and institutional autonomy;
    §    Targeting mechanisms to ensure poorest groups are reached;
    §    Promotion and support for community-based project generation;
    §    Technically simple community sub-project designs;
    §    Strong local participation during all stages of the community sub-project cycle;
    §    Well-defined appraisal criteria and transparent appraisal procedures;
    §    Execution of community sub-projects by private contractors, NGOs and communities;
    §    Regular and frequent financial and operational audits;
    §    Rigorous community project supervision;
    §    Collaboration with line ministries to ensure complementary objectives; and
    §    Political support and commitment to the goals and integrity of the SIF.

    The original project design reflected all of these lessons. However, poverty targeting turned out to be a
    highly sensitive issue because of the multi-ethnic character of Belize, and required extensive design
    discussions. The result was two allocation targets: first, for each of the six Districts based upon the
    per capita income of each District; and second, a national allocation by poverty level of the beneficiary
    communities. Although somewhat unclear (see Section 4.2), the discussion did establish the principle
    of poverty targeting and the agreed funding allocation was a major step in the right direction.

    Lessons Learned from Previous Experience in Belize and during Pilot Phase: These showed the need
    for:
    §    Sufficient project preparation time, especially for projects requiring policy decisions;
    §    Substantial technical assistance to supplement limited administrative and technical manpower
         available for project implementation;
    §    Community participation through information sharing and close collaboration to promote
         "ownership" and ensure sustainability; and
    §    Adequate government counterpart funding and recurrent budgetary support for key programs after
         sub-project completion.


                                                      - 4 -

     Despite this experience, sub-projects were much more expensive than projected at appraisal, both
     because of design upgrades and higher than expected contract costs (see Section 4.2 ).

Role of Local Team:
Project preparation was carried out by the Government and SIF staff, funded under the PHRD grant and
PPF advance. Bank staff provided substantial support to acquaint the team with the Bank's requirements.

Consultation:
A seminar held with the NGO community and government agencies identified various relevant issues,
concerns, and recommendations that were reflected in the project design. The consultative process
continued given the demand-driven nature of the project.However, in hindsight, the need for substantial and
ongoing NGO involvement should have received more attention.

Sustainability:
To promote the sustainability of the completed sub-projects, project design included the following features:


§    Community participation in sub-project identification, preparation, and supervision;
§    Ownership by the beneficiaries, as shown by the 5 ­ 10 percent community group cash or in-kind
      contributions;
§    Appraisal criteria that require presentation of an operation and maintenance plan;
§    Coordinating agreements with government agencies to ensure coverage of recurrent costs for those
      community sub-projects that generate such costs;
§    Carrying out a social analysis to assess the degree of participation by the beneficiaries in the
      preparation of the proposed community sub-project; and
§    Execution of an institutional evaluation of the capacity of sponsoring agencies to sustain services after
      SIF financing ends or of implementing agencies in cases where NGOs or community groups propose
      to implement sub-projects.

Regarding the sustainability of the SIF as an institution, this was to be promoted by establishing a
professionally responsible Board, a solid team of professional managers and staff, and adherence to an
Operational Manual agreed with the Bank.

Commitment:
The Government viewed the SIF as a key mechanism to "operationalize" the poverty reduction component
of its National Development Strategy 1996 ­ 2000, and participated actively in project preparation. The
Government also prepared the following documents prior to negotiations:


§    The draft Operational Manual;
§    A draft memorandum of understanding between the SIF and the Ministries of Human Resources,
      Health, and Education; and
§    A draft financing agreement between the EU and the Government.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievements:

As explained below, the outcome/achievement of objective is considered satisfactory. The SIF was a



                                                      - 5 -

Program of Targeted Intervention and has made substantial contributions to expanding the poorer
communities' access to priority infrastructure, which was achieved with increasing community
involvement. The project performance indicators (see Annex 1) confirm that the SIF has shown an overall
satisfactory performance, and has focused on poorer population groups and the rural areas. A more
thorough analysis of the SIF outcome/impact was agreed at appraisal, and would have been useful.
Unfortunately, a 2001 Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS), supported both by DFID and the
loan, which would have provided more substantive data on the impact of SIF-funded activities, was delayed
(due to lengthy design and implementation discussions, lack of experience of the local statistics staff, and
the substantial impact of Hurricane Keith), and its results will now not be available in time for this report.

The available data show that, despite a slow start due to management weaknesses (see discussion of
Staffing in Section 5.3), by 1999, the project achieved an acceptable rhythm of sub-project appraisal,
approval, contracting, and completion. During the 5.5 year implementation period (including the 15 month
extension), the SIF successfully processed 187 community sub-projects of good technical quality.
Although this is much less than the target of 500 set at appraisal, the lower number is largely due to: (a) the
production of much more technically complex sub-projects than foreseen at appraisal; (b) the slow take-off
of less expensive social program activities; and (c) much higher contract prices in general (see discussion of
Effectiveness and Output by Sub-Sector in Section 4.2). These sub-projects were implemented with
varying degrees of community involvement in the sub-project cycle. Although the SIF could have been
more active in promoting community involvement during the sub-project identification phase, they were
quite successful in encouraging community members to make in-kind contributions of labor and materials
during the implementation phase, and in ensuring the operation and maintenance of completed works. As
noted in the footnote of Table 1 in Section 4.2, a total of US$0.8 million was invested by the communities
in their sub-projects, representing about 8.3 percent of total investment, slightly below the 10 percent
projected at appraisal.

The SIF was successful in meeting its agreed District funding allocation targets. Although Tables 1 and 2
show that commitments in Toledo and Stann Creek reached only 84 and 82 percent of their targets
respectively, while investments in for example, Belize District exceeded targets by 35 percent, this can be
explained by the temporary reorientation of the SIF Project to Hurricane Keith repair, which favored
mainly the hard-hit Belize, Corozal, Cayo, and Orange Walk Districts. Eliminating the hurricane repair
activities does improve the picture. The SIF was somewhat less successful in meeting its agreed national
poverty level allocations (see Section 4.2).

Start-up delays put pressure on the SIF team to get sub-projects on-line quickly. They succeeded in this
respect, but this lack of time may have contributed to insufficient effort being dedicated to promoting
substantial, broad-based, and up-front community participation in the sub-project identification process.
The SIF tended to consult with the communities during the Community Needs Assessment exercise only
after having received a specific sub-project request from the Village Councils (which are the legitimate
political community representatives, but do not necessarily reflect the needs of the poorest). The time
pressures also led the SIF staff to work directly with communities, rather than working with the help of
NGOs. While the Beneficiary Assessment conducted in August 2000 confirmed that the selected
sub-projects were considered priorities by the communities, the portfolio of SIF sub-projects might have
looked somewhat different had the SIF used a more proactive participatory needs assessment process
up-front, ensuring a broader representation of community members and specific consultations with women.

This shortcoming was recognized by the Bank and the SIF during the mid-term review, and an effort was
made by the SIF to take corrective action. In August 2000, a number of the SIF staff received training in
participatory needs assessment and planning methodologies. Unfortunately, only a few months later, Belize


                                                      - 6 -

was hit by Hurricane Keith and a year later by Hurricanes Chantal and Iris. As mentioned above, these
disasters forced the SIF to focus its efforts on emergency rehabilitation and repair and, as a result, once
again the emphasis was on speed of physical output. Following the hurricane repair activities, the SIF
restarted its efforts to be more proactive in getting communities actively involved in sub-project
identification, and is putting more effort into seeking out non-infrastructure projects and incorporating
software components into all of its sub-projects.

As noted before, the EU-funded micro-enterprise component got off to a late start due to factors outside of
the SIF's control. Once underway, the component did contribute to strengthening the NGO functioning as
financial intermediary and to providing credit to a considerable number of otherwise frequently ineligible
borrowers, 58 percent of them women. However, the Micro-credit Component was reduced in scope due to
the depreciation of the EU currency. It was fully committed in late 2001. While the reported 18 percent
delinquency rate is high, it should be understood that a loan is recorded as delinquent if a borrower is only
two weeks late in making a payment. According to the NGO implementing the project, only 2 percent of
the loan portfolio has had to be written off so far, and defaults are not expected to exceed 5 percent. Again,
in the absence of the EU assessment, there is no objective assessment, but it does seem that this activity has
been reasonably successful.

Sector Policies:

As explained above, the SIF is an integral part of the Government's social sector policy and poverty
reduction activities. It works in close association with relevant sector agencies, and has helped to introduce
new concepts on community participation, and sub-project operation and maintenance. In addition,
although this only came towards the end of the project, the SIF started some innovative, NGO-based social
action program activities, dealing with the needs of some of the most vulnerable groups. These activities, if
pursued and expanded, should assist in strengthening the Government's poverty approach, but, at this
stage, the project's impact on sector policies is considered negligible.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project Component 1 - Community Sub-Projects

Coverage, Targeting and Equity

As mentioned before, two types of targeting were agreed at negotiations: regional targeting by District and
national targeting based on the level of poverty of the beneficiary communities. Table 1 shows the
allocation of SIF resources based on the agreed District targeting formula, showing that SIF missed its
pre-established targets in the Districts of Toledo and Stann Creek (and slightly in Cayo), and especially
overdrew its allocation to Belize District.




                                                       - 7 -

Table 1. Targeting by District (Planned and Actual Allocation)
                        Target        Actual         Actual as             Actual         Actual     Actual as
District              Resource      # Projects     % of Projects       Value in USD Resource           % of
                         Share                                           (US$'000)        Share      Resource
                                                                            (1)                       Share
Belize                    13%            56              30%                   1,621       18%         135%
Cayo                      23%            27              14%                   1,925       21%          94%
Corozal                   15%            26              14%                   1,359       15%         103%
Orange Walk               14%            36              19%                   1,461       16%         112%
Stann Creek               9%             12               6%                      647      7%           82%
Toledo                    26%            30              16%                   2,008       22%          84%
Total                    100%          187              100%                   9,021      100%         100%

Sources:
World Bank                                                                     6,940       77%
GOB                                                                            1,643       18%
EU                                                                                439      5%
Total                                                                          9,022      100%
(1) Value of sub-projects excludes micro-enterprise credit. It also excludes about US$819,000 in
community contributions, which would have increased total sub-projects to US$9,843,000.

The other agreed targeting formula provided for allocations for each of five poverty levels. However, due
to lack of reliable data, the five poverty levels were later reduced to three nation-wide categories: High
Poverty Areas, Medium Poverty Areas, and Low Poverty Areas. Fifty percent of resources were to target
High Poverty Areas, 30 percent Medium Poverty Areas, and 20 percent Low Poverty Areas. These targets
were also not met; as shown in Table 2, a relatively large share of the loan resources went to
Medium-Poverty Areas, with smaller shares to High Poverty and Low Poverty.

Table 2. Sub-Projects by District and Poverty level (1)
                              High Poverty         Medium Poverty             Low Poverty        Total
District                     #     Value (US$'000)   #     Value (US$'000)   #    Value (US$'000)  #     Value (US$'000)
Belize                       5          61          46         1,481         5         79          56        1621
As % of Total for District   9%         4%         82%          91%         9%         5%        100%        100%
Cayo                         6         567          17         1,149         4        209          27        1925
As % of Total for District  22%        29%         63%          60%        15%        11%        100%        100%
Corozal                      2         113          15          929          9        318          26        1360
As % of Total for District   8%         8%         58%          68%        35%        23%        100%        100%
Orange Walk                  5          86          22          873          9        503          36        1462
As % of Total for District  14%         6%         61%          60%        25%        34%        100%        100%
Stann Creek                  7         305           3          162          2        180          12         647
As % of Total for District  58%        47%         25%          25%        17%        28%        100%        100%
Toledo                       22       1,571          8          437          0          0          30        2008
As % of Total for District  73%        78%         27%          22%         0%         0%        100%        100%
Total                        47       2,703        111         5,031        29       1,289        187        9023
As % of Total for District  25%        30%         59%          56%        16%        14%        100%        100%

Target at Appraisal                    50%                      30%                   20%
Actual as % of Target                  60%                     186%                   71%

(1) This table does not include six national-level sub-projects and micro-enterprise credit. The value also



                                                       - 8 -

does not reflect community contributions.

Of course, it should be noted that the above tables combine the poverty-targeted program with the
hurricane recovery activities, which accounted for 30 percent of the number of sub-projects and 17 percent
of the SIF investments, and had a different regional and poverty spread (Hurricane Keith hit mainly the
Districts of Belize, Orange Walk, Cayo, and Corozal ). If activities are separated, there is a different set of
data, as presented below in Tables 3 A and B. Regarding the regular, non-emergency program, the
regional targeting by District was almost fully in line with the agreed percentages. However, the poverty
targeting of the communities, although better (35 percent High Poverty, 52 percent Medium Poverty, and
12 percent Low Poverty), still showed a substantial bias in favor of medium-income communities at the
expense of both lower and higher-income communities.

Table 3 A. Regional Targeting- Comparison of Regular and Hurricane Recovery Programs (1)(2)
          District               Regular Program       Hurricane Recovery Total Sub-Projects
                                  #   Value (US$'000)    #     Value (US$'000)   #  Value (US$'000)
Belize                           27       972           29         649          56     1,621
Cayo                             24      1,683           3         242          27     1,925
Corozal                          17      1,019           9         340          26     1,359
Orange Walk                      21      1,186          15         275          36     1,461
Stann Creek                      12       648            0           0          12      648
Toledo                           30      2,008           0           0          30     2,008
Total                            131     7,516          56        1,506        187     9,022
As % of Totals                  70%       83%          30%         17%


Table 3 B. Poverty Targeting- Comparison of Regular and Hurricane Recovery Programs (1)(2)
                                         High Poverty        Medium Poverty        Low Poverty             Total
                                       #    Value (US$'000)   #   Value (US$'000) #  Value (US$'000)  #    Value (US$'000)

Regular Program                       44        2,667        72       3,910       15       939       131       7,516
% of Total Regular Program            34%        35%         55%       52%       11%       12%      100%       100%
Target at Appraisal                              50%                   30%                 20%
Actual as % of Target                            71%                   173%                62%
Hurricane Recovery Program             3          36         39       1,122       14       349        56       1,507
% of Total Hurricane Recovery Program 5%          2%         70%       74%       25%       23%      100%       100%
Total                                 47        2,703        111      5,032       29      1,288      187       9,023
(1) Excluding community contributions.
(2) These figures include the six national level sub-projects that were not included in the poverty analysis in
   Table 2. However, they do not include the micro-credit activities; micro-credit was aimed at the poorest
   one-third of the population in the Cayo and Belize Districts, but no substantiated data are available.

The remaining poverty targeting discrepancies can be explained mainly as follows: (a) the formula used for
the regional allocation by District did not allow for sufficient allocations to Districts with the greatest
incidence of poverty (especially Toledo and Cayo); and (b) the early approval and implementation of
several costly education sub-projects in Stann Creek exhausted this District's allocation, and prevented the
further processing of some water supply sub-projects in higher poverty communities. However, it should
be noted that targeting was also affected by the demand-driven approach used by the SIF. This approach
tended to favor the more sophisticated communities that are better able to prepare viable sub-project
proposals. Had the SIF staff devoted more time and effort to preparing the High Poverty communities to
develop and submit sub-project proposals, this leakage of SIF resources to the less-poor might have been
avoided. Substantial loan resources were available for community training by specialized agencies or



                                                           - 9 -

individuals, but were largely not used. Instead, community training was undertaken by a limited number of
staff from the Ministry of Rural Development and the SIF staff themselves. They did a good job, but the
results could have been better.

Effectiveness and Output by Sub-Sector

The SIF output by sector is summarized in Tables 4 and 5 below. Although demand-driven, most of the
sub-projects were for education and water supply and sanitation and relatively few for social services and
training. As mentioned above, this was due to a combination of factors. The SIF staff has a strong
engineering background and, initially, tended to promote physical output against "softer" sub-projects and
activities. These tendencies were reinforced by the need to show quick, visible results after a slow project
start, and by the need to respond to hurricane damage in late 2000 and again in 2001. Social service and
training sub-projects or components often require a more lengthy design phase, and do not always produce
visible, easily measurable results.

In the early years, most of the sub-projects were in the education sector. This was followed by water
supply and sanitation in more recent years. The slower processing of water supply sub-projects was
mainly due to the time needed to strengthen technical and organizational coordination by the SIF with the
Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) for design support and the Ministry of Rural Development for
drilling support. Although the SIF output by sector was limited in both number and amount, it did provide
a useful contribution to the sector investment needs, and even more so to new concepts, such as the need for
community participation throughout the sub-project cycle and assurances on operation and maintenance of
completed works.

The proposed social action sub-project activities were slowest in implementing. This was partly due to the
SIF's focus on infrastructure, but also due to a lack of productive communication between the SIF and the
country's NGOs on the kinds of activities which could be considered and the kinds of criteria to be used in
evaluating those activities and the implementing agencies. In hindsight, especially because of the critical
needs those activities could have provided for, and the useful role that the NGOs could have played, this
sub-component should have received much earlier and more attention.

A number of NGOs were of the opinion that the SIF's procedures were too involved, bureaucratic, and time
consuming. The months that passed between proposal preparation and disbursement of sub-project funds
caused the NGOs to lose credibility in the eyes of their beneficiary groups. They felt that it would have
been helpful if they had received some up-front training in SIF's procedures. They also suggested that
SIF's management could have benefited from more exposure to NGOs and their programs and from
training in community and social development, so that they could better adapt their systems to
non-infrastructure-type sub-projects.

By early 2000, some of the sub-sector allocations of SIF funds, set at appraisal, had been fully depleted,
while others were relatively untouched. The Bank agreed with the SIF to disregard the sub-sector targets
set at appraisal, and to respond solely to the sector priorities expressed by the communities, within the
limits of the agreed allocations by District. This was the right decision, except that the Organizational
Strengthening allocation for up-front investment in training community groups, government agencies, and
NGOs in participatory sub-project identification and preparation went virtually untouched.




                                                      - 10 -

                        Table 4. Number and Amount of Sub-Projects by Sector (1)
                                     Number of                          Amount (in
                                         Sub-           % of Total       US$000)             % of Total
                                      Projects
Agriculture                                1                1%                90                1.0%
Economic Infrastructure                    5                3%               536                 6%
Education                                  95              51%              4,143               46%
Health                                     14               7%               655                 7%
Organizational                             1                1%                38                 0%
Strengthening
Social Services                            28              15%               523                 6%
Water & Sanitation                         43              23%              3,037               34%
Total                                     187             100%              9,022              100%
(1) Excluding community contributions and micro-enterprise credit activities.

Table 5 provides a calculation of cost per beneficiary, but no comparative data are available in Belize to
assess the relative effectiveness of the SIF.

Table 5. Cost per Beneficiary by Sector (1)
                                                                                     Cost/Beneficiary
                                      Value (In US$'000)     # Beneficiaries            (In US$'000)
Agriculture                                              90                 500                    180.00
Economic Infrastructure                                 536              4,632                     115.72
Education                                             4,143             27,661                     149.78
Health                                                  655             45,142                      14.51
Organizational Strengthening                             38              7,500                        5.07
Social Services                                         523             12,693                      41.20
Water & Sanitation                                    3,037             21,233                     143.03
Total                                                 9,022            119,361                      75.59
(1) Excluding micro-credit component and micro-enterprise credit activities.

Field visits by Bank staff and consultants confirmed the generally high technical quality of the completed
works. Most of the sub-projects sponsored by the SIF in early implementation rigorously followed
standard designs provided from line agencies. These `tried and true' designs suited the purposes of
sub-project recipients, although in many cases they might have benefited from slight changes to a building
layout or construction technique. SIF personnel have made improvements to these designs over the years,
and have thus added to the SIF's library of standard drawings. Based upon what was learned about
hurricane damage during the emergency reconstruction phase of the project, the SIF now incorporates
hurricane proofing features in all of its sub-project designs. These include aluminum window shutters,
instead of windows; strapping to secure roofing sheets against high winds; and reinforced water tank
pillars, all excellent changes contributing to the sub-projects' sustainability (but also to its cost).

As mentioned in Section 4.1, the number of sub-projects was much below the number projected at
appraisal. This was largely because the average cost of US$48,000 per sub-project was more than double
the US$20,000 estimate at appraisal. This, in turn, was the result of the low share of less expensive social
action sub-projects (see next paragraph), major upgrading of designs of school and health facilities
(following a Government requirement that all facilities include stronger roofs and additional bathroom




                                                      - 11 -

facilities to function as community hurricane refugee centers), and higher costs of materials than expected.
Materials costs were higher than in many other countries due to the need to import most building materials
and the scarcity of qualified contractors in some specialties (even worse with the great demand for these
services following the hurricanes, which kept plaguing the project) which, on occasion, did lead to
insufficient price competition. Table 4 shows that the average education sub-project cost US$64,000, the
average health sub-project cost US$47,000, and the average water and sanitation sub-project cost
US$71,000. Although the appraisal's unit cost projections were based on corresponding figures used by
applicable line ministries and externally-financed projects, in hindsight, these figures turned out to be
unrealistically low.

Community Strengthening and Social Capital

The SIF worked through the elected Village Councils. The vast majority of sub-projects received and
approved were from these community-based, local government structures. Once it received a sub-project
proposal, SIF field and technical staff visited the village and conducted a Community Needs Assessment
designed to confirm that the sub-project reflected a genuine community-felt need. If confirmed, the staff
worked with the Village Council members to fully develop the proposal. Since the vast majority of
sub-projects involved community infrastructure, these proposals usually included technical drawings along
with detailed budgets. This process contributed to build the Village Councils' sub-project preparation
skills. The Village Chairman was usually actively involved in supervision during the sub-project
implementation phase. The SIF also collaborated with line ministries to create community-based
maintenance committees. This was particularly true in the water sector, where community water boards
were created to collect user fees to pay for operation and maintenance of the system.

As noted above, the SIF could have done more to build the capacity of Village Councils and other
community groups and NGOs, in leading participatory needs assessment processes to identify priority
problems and to develop integrated community strategies to address these needs. The pressure to approve
and implement sub-projects and the subsequent pressures caused by Hurricane Keith, led the SIF to not
give sufficient attention to this important phase. This is understandable, but it was a missed opportunity
for community leaders to learn participatory techniques to facilitate a community-wide process to define
integrated village development plans. In this respect, it is also noteworthy that the original proposal that
the SIF use the services of Community Development Officers of the Ministry of Human Development never
materialized. With a few exceptions, those officers, although residing in the Districts, were not available to
provide the facilitation and community training expected at appraisal as "an integral part of SIF
operations."

Still, it should be emphasized that all of the completed works seem to be of good quality, welcomed by the
communities, and well-maintained by either line agencies or community user committees. Equally, it
should be mentioned that knowledge on community capacity building is an evolving science or art, and that
some of the above comments on community training were not spelled out at appraisal, and certainly were
not project conditions.

Decentralization

By working through the Village Councils, the SIF played a positive role in strengthening local government.
The SIF also funded SPEAR, a national NGO, to conduct a series of training of trainers workshops
designed to increase community awareness of the Village Council Act of 1999, which outlines the roles and
responsibilities of the Village Councils as administrators and leaders of rural communities. A total of 58
trainers were trained, who, in turn, trained 7,356 community members in all six Districts.


                                                      - 12 -

Project Process and Costs

Over the life of the project, administration costs as a percentage of sub-project investments were about 21
percent, which compares to 15 percent projected at appraisal. These costs exclude the cost of equipment
and office rent, and the staff cost of recently-initiated programs funded by DFID and the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) (which are not covered in this report), but do include staff costs associated with
sub-project design, supervision, and community training, which other SIFs consider, rightly so, as part of
their investment cost (this salary breakdown was not available). The relatively high cost of administration
can be explained by the relatively low volume of investment expenditure, which did not enable the SIF to
achieve the economy of scale of most other funds and, thus, resulted in a higher than average overhead rate.


The percentage was also affected by the SIF's slow beginning and the need to reorient in response to the
hurricanes of 2000 and 2001. These factors contributed to the decision to extend the term of the project to
early-2003.

Still, in some cases, the project cycle was slow, although in part due to the substantial response to the
hurricanes and in the water supply sector, due to delays in finding drilling rigs and suitable water sources.

Summary

To summarize, although below target, the SIF introduced the poverty targeting concept, reached many and
mainly poor communities, contributed to meeting priority investment needs, produced technically
good-quality products, and ensured a marginally acceptable degree of community participation. Therefore,
the output of this component should be considered satisfactory.

Project Component 2 - Micro-Enterprise Credit

The SIF, with the help of a financial intermediary, disbursed US$1.0 million for 1,770 loans, of which 935
are still active. At appraisal, this had been projected at US$1.2 million for 2,250 loans, but EU funding
was reduced because of the depreciation of the EU currency, thus substantially affecting the scope and
viability of this activity. Despite these constraints, the output of this component seems satisfactory, but
this judgment is subject to the outcome of the expected EU assessment.

Project Component 3 - SIF Institutional Support

This component resulted in a productive organization, focused on poverty reduction, and able to respond
immediately to emergencies. The only disappointment was the lack of a satisfactory MIS (see Section 5.3)
and the late production of the impact evaluation report (see Section 4.1 on the LSMS). Still, as a result of
its unique capacity, the SIF is now being used by other donor organizations, a satisfactory outcome.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the demand-driven nature of the SIF activities, it was difficult to do an ex-ante economic rate of
return calculation of the SIF program, but a cost effectiveness analysis was carried out. Also ex-post, this
study did not calculate the net present value and economic rate of return. In addition, because of lack of
data, this study did not pursue a comparison of the SIF and line agency costs. However, as mentioned
above, all indications are that the SIF worked better, cheaper, and faster than other government agencies.
The quality of its work was good to excellent, but the cost of administration unavoidably high (consistent



                                                       - 13 -

with the experience in other small countries).

Sub-projects are evaluated by experienced staff, using the Operational Manual criteria, and a unit cost data
system and sub-project design standards agreed with the responsible line agencies. The process of
technical and financial evaluation is simple, and the economic evaluation is solely a calculation of the
least-cost solution; this was justified because of the nature of the sub-projects. Environmental evaluation is
prescribed in the Operational Manual, and followed where needed.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact was considered modest.

The SIF has proven to be a productive, transparent, and flexible mechanism for implementing small-scale
social and economic infrastructure sub-projects. This became even more apparent when the SIF had to
quickly shift its focus to emergency repair of damaged infrastructure resulting from the series of hurricanes
that affected the country in recent years. For the Government, the existence of such a flexible institution
has been and is valuable. The SIF's relationship with the line ministries was well established, and the
project did not seek further strengthening.

As a result, the SIF has been able to develop a reputation as a relatively efficient and transparent manager
of donor funds. DFID invested US$1.6 million in the SIF to carry out post-hurricane rehabilitation and
disaster preparedness, and the British Government recently agreed that the SIF would also manage the
equivalent of about US$2.0 million in debt relief to be allocated for poverty reduction sub-projects.
Likewise, the Caribbean Development Bank has agreed to provide funding of approximately US$3.3
million to finance sub-projects over the next four years, using the technical procedures and community
participation developed and improved by the SIF in recent years.

The SIF has also helped to strengthen the Village Councils in Belize to some extent. Not only did the SIF
invest in a capacity-building program to prepare Village Councils to perform their duties, but many
sub-projects were implemented through Village Councils. Still, while many communities were strengthened
through the standard community training in operation and maintenance of completed sub-projects, the SIF
could have done more to prepare the communities themselves to identify and analyze their problems and to
develop appropriate sub-project plans (see Section 4.2). The SIF also delayed until the final year of the
project, the development of partnerships with NGOs involved in providing social services to vulnerable
communities. As noted above, both the SIF and the NGOs found these partnerships challenging.

Finally, the SIF, with its stringent rules for sub-project design, evaluation and contracting, did help
strengthen the private contracting industry.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Hurricanes: Over the last three years, Belize was hit by three hurricanes. As a consequence, during a
substantial part of the implementation period, priority was given to emergency repairs of damage caused by
the hurricanes. This resulted in less poverty targeting within the Districts than would have occurred
without these natural disasters. It also added to the demand for scarce contracting services and thus, a
substantial increase in prices. The temporary focus on hurricane repair also resulted in some delays in
contracting and the extension of the loan disbursement period, and the approval by the Bank of a


                                                      - 14 -

Supplemental Loan, consistent with the country's needs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart Funding: In mid-2001, partly as a result of difficult Government discussions with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Government slashed all Government agencies' budgets in half,
which caused a short-term problem in counterpart funding for the SIF. As a result, the SIF could not sign
any new contracts, and was late in making a number of contractor payments. These slowdowns continued
for about six months until the SIF was placed under the Office of the Prime Minister, and was again
assured of sufficient counterpart funding.

Inter-Agency Cooperation: At appraisal, it was foreseen that the SIF would have access to the services of
the Community Development Officers of the Ministry of Human Development, but, with few exceptions,
this never materialized. The use of Rural Development Officers of the Ministry of Rural Development was
slightly better, but also problematic. The Ministries' staff had no incentive to take on additional work. The
result was a substantial additional burden on the SIF staff and less attention to the crucial aspects of
community participation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Staffing: The SIF has suffered from staff turnover throughout implementation. The first Executive
Director left in June 1998, and three months later the Technical Coordinator resigned. These factors
explain the slow launch of the SIF. Since that time, the new Executive Director has succeeded in creating
more stability within the SIF team, with some exceptions. The turnover in the MIS unit was particularly
problematic. It is likely explained by the fact that talented MIS technicians are highly sought after in
Belize, making it difficult to keep staff even when they are being well-paid. As a result of this frequent
turnover, the SIF's MIS system has yet to become fully operational, despite frequent technical assistance
provided by an international MIS specialist. Data is collated and analyzed manually, which makes it
time-consuming and sometimes of questionable reliability. More recently, the SIF lost its only staff
member with experience in the participatory community development approach and in working with NGOs;
she has now been replaced.

Community Participation: While the SIF was successful in producing high quality infrastructure, it was,
as explained above, somewhat less successful in stimulating a high degree of community participation
throughout the sub-project cycle. Its efforts to channel resources to NGOs and other groups engaged in
social assistance sub-projects were challenging for both the SIF and the NGOs.

Delays at start-up put a lot of pressure on the SIF staff to perform and demonstrate that it had the capacity
to meet targets. Its technical unit, staffed largely by engineers, was successful in showing that the SIF had
the capacity to build infrastructure in response to requests from Village Councils, but, as mentioned in the
Beneficiary Assessment Report of August 2000, "...there is a need (to) focus much more on the quality of
community participation and contribution in terms of decision-making processes, equal participation
opportunities for men and women, information sharing, democratic communication and leadership." The
above statement not only points to the need to promote more intensive community participation in the
decision-making processes, but also to the SIF's need to be more proactive in promoting gender balance at
the community level. Involving women in the project planning and implementation was particularly
difficult in the Toledo District, where Mayan customs do not encourage female involvement. The report
went on to say, "if the SIF wishes to continue including human development projects in its menu, it should
increase the staff, especially in the field, with persons that have professional training in these matters. It
should also prepare for more time to interact with the communities and make an effort to work much closer
with NGOs with this experience."



                                                      - 15 -

In response to these comments, the SIF strengthened the role of its Community Development Specialist,
who sought to bridge the gap between the SIF and the NGOs, and in later years made a more systematic
effort to engage communities throughout the sub-project cycle. It also should be noted that all relevant,
completed sub-projects now seem to have satisfactory arrangements for operation and maintenance.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total cost of the project (including community contributions of US$1.1 million) was
estimated at the equivalent of US$11.7 million. As detailed in the table below, and showing the impact of
the Hurricane Keith repairs, the cost at completion was US$9.8 million for the Community Sub-Projects
Component, US$1.0 million for the Micro-enterprise Credit Component, and US$2.9 million for the SIF
Institutional Support Component, a total cost of US$14.0 million (including PPF refinancing) (or US$13.2
million excluding community contributions). The average SIF sub-project cost was US$48,000, which,
relative to other programs and in light of local costs, is reasonable.

As set out in the table below, the Government provided the equivalent of US$3.3 million, the beneficiary
communities US$0.8 million, the Bank US$8.4 million, and the EU US$1.5 million.

                               Table 6. Costs and Financing (US$ million) (1)
         Activity            Total      Financed by      Financed by      Financed by       Financed by
                             Cost        Bank (2)        Government       Beneficiaries          EU
 Community                   9.84          6.92                1.64             0.82             0.44
 Sub-Projects
 Micro-enterprise            1.02              --                 --                --           1.02
 Credit
 SIF Institutional           2.91          1.21                1.70                 --               --
 Support
 PPF/ Front-end Fee          0.28          0.28                   --                --               --
 Total Project Cost          14.0          8.40                3.34             0.82             1.46
                                 4
(1) Figures may not add up due to rounding.
(2) Including the US$1.4 million Supplemental Loan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the SIF Organization: The Prime Minister's decision earlier this year to merge the Basic
Needs Trust Fund (BNTF), supported by the CDB, into the SIF, bodes well for the sustainability of the
SIF mechanism. In addition, as noted above, a number of other donors have agreed to channel funds
through the SIF. Sustainability is also promoted by the fact that the most senior representatives of the
relevant ministries are represented on the SIF Board, and that this has created a strong feeling of joint
responsibility for social sector development. This should allow the continued operation of the SIF, with its
experienced technical staff, satisfactory Operational Manual, and almost established MIS.

Sustainability of the SIF Sub-Projects: Sub-project sustainability has been promoted by increasing
community participation during the sub-project cycle, from sub-project selection to supervision and,
particularly, operation and maintenance of completed works. Although community training could and
should have received more attention, user committees were trained in the technical and financial aspects of
sub-project operation. For the training of water supply user committees, the SIF was helped by the



                                                      - 16 -

Ministry of Rural Development and WASA.

In the absence of the EU assessment, little can said about the sustainability of the micro credit activities,
although it should be noted that there was a substantial number of repeat borrowers.

Overall, the project (organization and sub-projects) is considered likely to be sustainable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the time being, the SIF will continue to operate on the same basis as before, but with increasing
community participation, and funded by the Government with support from other donors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in designing the project is rated satisfactory. The design activities benefited from
funding under a Japanese PHRD grant and a PPF, allowing for the start of pilot activities, which provided
both Government and the Bank with substantial relevant experience. In addition, preparation benefited
from the experience gained by other social funds in the region. Performance would have been rated better,
were it not for the less than ideal poverty criteria and funding allocation, the poor MIS set-up, and the
unrealistic estimates of sub-project costs.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank did a satisfactory job in supervising project implementation. These activities were occasionally
hampered by lack of supervision budget, staff turnover, or organizational changes in the procurement
section, but, overall, the Bank did cover its fiduciary responsibilities and provided substantial technical
assistance in the process; this included water supply and road engineering, community participation, and
the MIS design. The Bank also carried out a useful mid-term review, and responded positively and
proactively to a request for emergency support after Hurricane Keith, allowing for temporary changes in
the procurement arrangements and granting a Supplemental Loan. This support included advice on the
emergency manual, drawing upon the experience of the Honduras and Nicaragua social investment funds
with Hurricane Mitch repair. In all, the Bank was proactive and flexible.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the above, the overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government and the SIF were instrumental in preparing the project. Staff members were assigned and
an office established with the help of the PHRD grant. The pilot activities managed by the SIF were
instrumental in project design. The Borrower's role is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although, as mentioned above, there was a short-term budget problem last year, this does not take away
from the overall satisfactory performance of the Government. It did assign competent line ministry
representatives to the SIF Board, and did not exert undue political pressure, as in too many other countries.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The SIF's performance too should be rated as overall satisfactory. The SIF did establish a high-quality
mechanism for producing small-scale priority social and economic infrastructure, which also allowed it to



                                                      - 17 -

respond quickly and extremely well to the country's hurricane repair needs. As far as its regular activities
are concerned, the SIF's community participation should have been better and more comprehensive. Also,
the social program activities did not develop as quickly and substantially as projected at appraisal.

The SIF's financial management was quite good. It was among the Bank's pilots for the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) system, and has throughout the years, provided excellent project
management reports on finance, procurement, and operations, as the basis for payments under the loans. It
also should be noted that the Government's decision to forgo the establishment of a special account never
affected implementation. The SIF quickly established a good reputation among contractors for its
immediate payments. Procurement management was affected by staff turnover. Initially, this was not a
major issue, since most procurement turned out to be for small contracts, requiring only direct contracting
or three quotations (see Annex 2). However, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) contracting in more
recent years would have benefited from the continued presence of experienced staff. Finally, as noted
above, the MIS was a problem throughout project implementation, resulting in unsatisfactory ratings for
monitoring in recent years.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance was satisfactory. The country is small but complex, and frequently
affected by hurricanes, making for a difficult work environment. Still, both Government and SIF were able
to deliver on the agreed project objective, and a highly qualified organization with experienced and
dedicated staff now exists.

8. Lessons Learned

Poverty Targeting: The agreed allocation by District and nationally, by level of poverty of the
communities, followed intensive discussions with the Government on poverty and political issues (see
Section 3.5) and was, unavoidably, a compromise. As a result, the allocation to the poorest communities
was smaller than seems justified and agreed. This experience reconfirms the importance of giving
significant attention during project preparation to the criteria to be used for the poverty targeting formula,
and to the need for the implementing agency to help the poorest communities prepare sub-project proposals.
Still, the principle of poverty targeting was established, and received increasing political acceptance.

Emergency Response: Following Hurricane Keith, the SIF was among the very few national agencies able
to respond quickly and well to the communities' emergency repair needs, confirming the critical role that
social funds can play in this area. With the help of the Bank and Honduran consultants (with experience
based on emergency repairs following Hurricane Mitch), the SIF drafted an emergency operational
manual, allowing for temporary project cycle exemptions, and thus speeding up sub-project processing.
This experience confirms the need to draft and agree upon emergency procedures at the start of the project,
when such a project is located in a country subject to hurricanes or other disasters.

Output vs. Participation: The SIF, like demand-driven social funds elsewhere, is under dual pressures, on
the one hand to produce quick results in the form of high quality, cost-effective social infrastructure, and,
on the other hand, to achieve these results using an intensive participatory approach. The latter is
unavoidably more time-consuming, but the risk of not investing ample time in empowering communities to
analyze and prioritize community needs, plan, and implement the sub-projects financed by the SIF is that
funds are spent in ways that are not considered to be the highest priority in the beneficiary communities and
that communities fail to maintain these facilities once they are built. Under-investing in participatory
processes is, more importantly, a missed opportunity for civic education.




                                                     - 18 -

Given a substantial list of outstanding sub-project requests, it was appropriate for the SIF to focus on
physical output in its early years. However, once it earned the respect of its key stakeholders, the SIF
found it difficult to successfully transform itself into a facilitator of a fully participatory community
development process. A successful transformation would have required a culture change within the SIF.
Engineers may be brought in during the early phase with the understanding that their role is short-term.
Their job is to ensure that the fund gets off to a successful start with well-designed and cost-effective
infrastructure sub-projects that are implemented in a timely fashion. Once the fund has been established as
a delivery mechanism, management should gradually transfer authority to staff who are focused on building
the capacity of community-based organizations, NGOs, and local government to lead the community
development process, rather than with the number of units produced. This transformation must occur
institution-wide.

The SIF did establish good quality sub-projects, and did manage, mainly with its own staff, to provide the
necessary community training in operation and maintenance (O&M) (completed sub-projects seem to have
satisfactory O&M arrangements), but a more comprehensive community capacity building effort, although
not an explicit project condition, would have been beneficial.

Loan Allocations for Softer Project Aspects: Although the legal document provided for a dedicated loan
allocation for community training and there was agreement at negotiations on sector allocations, including
social program activities, the community training went largely unused and the social program activity was
largely abandoned during project implementation because it went against the idea of the project being
"fully demand-driven." In both cases, the SIF management and Bank staff probably should have
considered more carefully the implications of these decisions, although it is clear that the Hurricane Keith
impact played havoc with some of the original project design features.

Working with NGOs: The SIF could have established a stronger collaboration with NGOs if it had
created an ongoing consultation mechanism with NGOs to review for example, the SIF Operational Manual
and make revisions to better adapt it to non-infrastructure type-activities, such as capacity-building and
social service sub-projects. An upfront workshop for NGOs interested in submitting proposals that
outlines all the rules and regulations that the SIF lenders require might also have ensured that the NGO
proposals were more complete, and could have reduced the time the SIF staff spends gathering additional
sub-project information from the NGO applicants. More training for all SIF staff in participatory
community development techniques and social development and tours of NGO projects would have helped
to break down the apparent cultural divide and lack of trust between the SIF and the NGOs.

Complexity of Impact Evaluation: The project did benefit from a quick beneficiary assessment by an
international consultant, and should have benefited from project impact assessment questions inserted in a
DFID-supported LSMS to have been carried out last year. Since the latter slipped, no quantitative data are
available to substantiate the report's conclusion that the SIF output met the community demands. This
leads one to conclude that, however difficult, such complex activities could benefit from more explicit and
earlier attention.

Contributions from Other Agencies: Despite the SIF's excellent relationship with the line agencies, the
project did not obtain the services of the Community Development Officers of the Ministry of Human
Development expected at appraisal. It is evident that inter-agency cooperation needs considerable and
explicit attention, and that both other agencies and their staff need specific incentives to contribute.

Cooperation with Other Donors: Although, initially, there was close cooperation with the EU (a
co-financier), this became difficult when the EU office in Belize was abolished, and the EU funding was


                                                       - 19 -

spent. Also, since the micro-enterprise credit component was fully funded by the EU, and was expected to
be evaluated by the EU, when this slipped, it was too late to serve as an input into the preparation of this
report.

Staffing: Additional corrective measures should have been built into the project design to deal with the
possible shortage of special skills such as, the MIS in the case of Belize.

Administrative Cost of SIF: SIFs in small countries have serious "diseconomies of scale". In addition, one
has to watch the definition of "administrative cost." In the case of Belize, the cost includes staff costs for
sub-project design, supervision and community training, which other SIFs mostly exclude.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Overall, the project has contributed substantially to the provision of social infrastructure, especially in the
rural areas of Belize, as well as to the provision of micro-enterprise credit in two districts.

The impact of the project has been primarily in the areas of water and sanitation, education, health and
economic infrastructure. There was limited impact in the areas of social services and organizational
strengthening. This was due to several factors, namely the sluggish rate of project implementation in the
first two years and the subsequent need to accelerate implementation to avoid closure of the project; the
overwhelming demand by communities for infrastructure projects, especially in the areas of water and
sanitation and education; the urban bias of the small number of NGOs and community-based organizations
(CBOs) and their inability to extend their operations in the rural areas.

The actual implementation of the SIF revealed a divergence from the targeting strategy set out in the
appraisal document of the SIF project. The resource distribution under the project prevented the SIF from
targeting the poorest communities. The Stann Creek District was allocated a small sum, which was quickly
absorbed by about five projects due to the size of the sub-projects. This resulted in an unsatisfied demand
from other poor communities in this district. Also, according to the poverty ranking of villages in the
Corozal District by the Central Statistical Office, there was only one village with a ranking of high poverty,
while all the others had a ranking of either medium or low poverty. Although the SIF did target many high
poverty villages in the Toledo District, which had the highest resource allocation, the overall targeting
outcome was affected by the situation in Corozal and revealed a greater impact in medium poverty villages.
Actual sector targeting also differed from planned sector targeting in that community demand for
sub-projects shifted significantly away from economic infrastructure and health sub-projects to water and
sanitation and education sub-projects. This was due to the fact that existing facilities had deteriorated
significantly and communities considered the construction of these facilities paramount.

The project was expected to fund over 500 community projects that would provide poor communities with
basic social and economic infrastructure, access to social services and training. The project funded less
than 200 sub-projects or 40 percent of the projected number. This occurred because the project focused
more on infrastructure sub-projects than on social services and organizational strengthening sub-projects.
The average investment in community sub-projects was estimated at US$20,000; the actual average
investment was more than double this amount. Investment in water and education projects in particular
averaged approximately $110,000 per unit, which resulted in a smaller number of sub-projects being
funded under the project in these sectors.

The impact of the micro-enterprise credit programs was curtailed by the devaluation of the EU currency



                                                      - 20 -

and was affected by the high rate of loan delinquency. The targeted number of loans were not achieved,
and a part of the training for borrowers could not be undertaken. Losses suffered by borrowers, especially
in the rural areas, as a result of natural disasters, such as hurricanes and floods, and the poor
creditworthiness of borrowers, particularly in the urban areas, contributed to the high rate of loan
delinquency. Subsequent loan recovery measures adopted by the lending agency led to a reduction in this
rate.

The implementation of the project was affected by several factors. From the standpoint of the Borrower,
these consisted of an initial management problem, high turnover of the procurement and MIS staff,
insufficient emphasis on community participatory approach, and the devastation of three hurricanes in three
consecutive years.

From the standpoint of the Bank, these factors consisted of a delay in assigning an officer in charge of the
project in the first two years and the turnover in procurement staff.

These factors were more than compensated by the project preparatory work undertaken jointly by the
Borrower and the Bank, the unwavering commitment of the Government of Belize to the project,
particularly in providing its counterpart contribution mostly on a timely basis, a strong working
relationship with the line Ministries, the institutional autonomy of the SIF, the conduct of effective Bank
supervision missions, the prompt provision by the Government and the Bank of additional resources for
hurricane rehabilitation, and practical adjustments to procedures by the Bank to advance the
implementation of the project.

Based on the above-mentioned comments, the performances of both the Borrower (SIF) and the Bank are
rated as satisfactory.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Initially, there was regular contact on project implementation between the Bank and the EU. However,
with the move of the EU office to Jamaica and the completion of EU funding in late 2001, there was no
further contact in Belize.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Since NGOs played a relatively minor role in project implementation, they were not asked for written
comments. However, their observations relayed to the ICR mission are reflected in this report.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                       - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
              Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of direct beneficiaries:
Total                                      25,000                         119,361

by Type of Sub-Project:
 Water and Sanitation                       7,500                         21,233
 Health                                     3,750                         45,142
 Economic Infrastructure                    3,250                          4,632
 Education                                  6,250                         27,661
 Social Services                            2,500                         12,693
 Organ. Strengthening                       1,750                          7,500
 Agriculture                                 N/A                             500

by District:
 Toledo                                     6,600                         31,159
 Cayo                                       5,650                         9,942
 Corozal                                    3,650                         23,559
 Stann Creek                                2,175                         10,599
 Orange Walk                                3,600                         14,312
 Belize                                     3,325                         30,240

2. Targeting of Communities by level of
poverty (in %):                               50                             30
 Highest                                      30                             56
 Medium                                       20                             14
 Least

3. Targeting of Districts                 NA
(by number of sub-projects):
 Toledo                                                                      30
 Cayo                                                                        27
 Corozal                                                                     26
 Stann Creek                                                                 12
 Orange Walk                                                                 36
 Belize                                                                      56

4. Targeting of Districts
(by amount disbursed, in %):
 Toledo                                      26                              23
 Cayo                                        23                              21
 Corozal                                     15                              15
 Stann Creek                                  9                               7
 Orange Walk                                 14                              16
 Belize                                      13                              18

5. Community Contribution as Percentage of   10                               8.3
Total Investment




                                                       - 22 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
              Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of Sub-Projects Completed         400                            187
2. Amount of Sub-Projects Completed           9.44 *)                       9.84 *)
( US$ M)
3. Cost of Administration as Percentage of   15                            21
Total Investments (excl. Community
Contribution)


1End of project
(Projected in PAD and Memorandum and Recommendation to the President).
*) Including community contributions.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                                US$ million       US$ million
Community Sub-Projects (1)                                          9.44                9.84               104
Micro-Enterpise Credit                                              1.20                1.02                85
SIF Institutional Support (2)                                       1.85                2.91               157

Total Baseline Cost                                                12.49               13.77
 Physical Contingencies                                             0.14                0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                0.32                0.00
                          Total Project Costs                      12.95               13.77
                                           Front-end fee            0.36                0.28            78.00
                   Total Financing Required                        13.31               14.05
(1) Including community contributions.
 (2) Contingencies only applicable to the Institutional Support component.
 (3) Appraisal estimate of costs includes activities funded both under original laon and under supplemental
loan.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB                  2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                              0.00              1.38            2.03             0.99           4.40
                                     (0.00)             (1.29)         (1.91)            (0.00)        (3.20)
2. Goods                              0.00              0.99            1.25             0.96           3.20
                                     (0.00)             (0.97)         (1.23)            (0.00)        (2.20)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00            2.41             0.80           3.21
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (2.41)            (0.00)        (2.41)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00              0.00            0.22             0.92           1.14
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.22)            (0.00)        (0.22)
5. Microenterprise                    0.00              0.00            0.00             1.00           1.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
6. PPF / Front-end Fee                0.00              0.00            0.36             0.00           0.36
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.36)            (0.00)        (0.36)
    Total                             0.00              2.37            6.27             4.67          13.31
                                     (0.00)             (2.26)         (6.13)            (0.00)        (8.39)
Figures may not add up due to rounding; they do include community contributions.




                                                     - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         1,3
                                                             Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB                  NCB                       2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                    Other
   1. Works                                  0.00                 1.74                5.12                0.90              7.76
                                            (0.00)               (1.49)             (4.35)               (0.00)            (5.84)
   2. Goods                                  0.00                 0.16                1.10                0.00              1.26
                                            (0.00)               (0.14)             (0.93)               (0.00)            (1.07)
   3. Services                               0.00                 0.00                1.21                1.70              2.91
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)             (1.21)               (0.00)            (1.21)
   4. Miscellaneous                          0.00                 0.00                0.00                0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Microenterprise                        0.00                 0.00                0.00                1.02              1.02
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. PPF / Front-end Fee                    0.00                 0.00                0.28                0.00              0.28
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.28)               (0.00)            (0.28)
       Total                                 0.00                 1.90                7.71                3.62              13.23
                                            (0.00)               (1.63)             (6.77)               (0.00)            (8.40)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
       managing the project.

       3/ Figures do not include community contributions.



Project Financing by Component (1) (2)                (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                               Percentage of Appraisal
   Component (1) (2)                 Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.          CoF.         Bank          Govt.         CoF.        Bank     Govt.  CoF.
Community Sub-Project            6.88        0.66           0.80          6.92          1.64         0.44       100.6     248.5  55.0
Micro-Enterprise Credit          0.00        0.00           1.20          0.00          0.00         1.02         0.0       0.0  85.0
Institutional Support            1.16        1.14           0.00          1.21          1.70         0.00       104.3     149.1   0.0
PPF/ Front-end Fee               0.36        0.00           0.00          0.28          0.00         0.00        77.8       0.0   0.0
Total                            8.40        1.80           2.00          8.40          3.34         1.46       100.0     185.6  73.0

   (1) Data excluding community contributions (projected at appraisal at US$ 1.07 million and actually received estimated at
   about US$ 819,000)
    (2) Data may not add up due to rounding.




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/28/1994
              7/24/1995                 1    MISSION LEADER (1)
              11/6/1995                 1    MISSION LEADER (1)
              1/29/1996                 5    MISSION LEADER,
                                             ECONOMIST,
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST,
                                             PROCUREMENT, FINANCE
              7/29/1996                 1    ECONOMIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/7/1996                      FIN. MGMT. SPEC. (1)
                                             PROGRAM
                                             COORDINATOR (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (3)


 Supervision

              05/23/1997                4    TASK ASSISTANT (1);              S               S
                                             MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              01/16/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             DEPUTY TASK MANAGER
                                             (1); COUNTRY SECTOR
                                             LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT-SOCIOLOGIST
                                             (1)
              06/19/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1); DEPUTY          S               U
                                             TM / MIS (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC. (1)
              11/19/1998                3    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);        S               U
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
              04/16/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT-SIF EXPERT
                                             (1); CONS. - INFR. ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              02/05/2000                1    CONSULTANCY (1)                  S               S
              12/15/2000                5    SOCIAL FUNDS SPEC. (1);          S               S
                                             COMMUNITY PARTICIP. (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2)
              06/16/2001                3    SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             CONS-MIS SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                                       SOCIAL PROTECTION SPEC
                                                       (1)
               01/09/2002                         1    SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST (1)              S    S
               06/17/2002                         3    CONSULTANT (2); SOCIAL                 S    S
                                                       PROT.SPEC. (1)


 ICR
               11/22/2002                         3     SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST                 S    S
                                                        (1); COMMUNITY
                                                        PARTICIPATION
                                                        SPECIALIST (1); MIS
                                                        CONSULTANT (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         n/a                            n/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            26.06                       161,353
  Supervision                                      93.56                       133,379
  ICR                                              2.72                          9,037
  Total                                          122.34                        303,769
*This table is based on information currently in SAP and FACT. The figures for staff weeks for
identification/preparation and part of supervision were not available.




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


CSO, "Population Census 2000, Major Findings."

GOB, "National Poverty Elimination Strategy and Action Plan, 1998-2003."

NHDAC, "Belize-Preparing for the New Millennium - National Human Development Report", 1999.

SIF, "Operational Manual", 1997.

SIF, "Manual of Norms and Additional Procedures that Regulate the Execution of Projects for the
Emergency Rehabilitation Works for Hurricane Keith," 2001.

SIF, "Strategic Plan 2003-2007."

SIF, "Proposal for Social Investment Fund Second Tranche", December 4, 2001.

World Bank, "Social Investment Fund Project", Project Appraisal Document, No 16310-BEL, February
25, 1997.

World Bank, "Social Investment Fund Project", Memorandum and Recommendation on a Proposed
Supplemental Loan, No P7438-BEL, March 6, 2001.

World Bank, " Mid-Term Review Mission", May-June 2000.




                                                - 31 -

- 32 -

