Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16776
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 3130-BR)
June 20, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:' New Brazilian Cruzado (NCz$)
Rate at Appraisal:     US$1            =     NCz$1
NCz$1                 US$1
Rate at Completion:    US$1            =     R$0.969
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Director         Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief    Constance Bernard
Task Manager    Michael Carroll
A new currency, the Real (R$), was introduced in 1994.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENARGEN           Centro Nacional de Recursos Gen6ticos e Biotecnolocia
National Research Center for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology
CNPA               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
National Center for Cotton Research
CNPAB              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agrobiologia
(formerly CNPBS/UAPNPBS)
National Center for Agrobiological Research
CNPAI              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agricultura Irrigada
National Centerfor Irrigation and Drainage Research
Oater subsumed in CPAMN)
CNPAT              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agroindustria Tropical
(formerly CNPCa -Cashew)
National Center for Tropical Agroindustrial Research
CNPC               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
National Center for Research on Goats
CNPF               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Florestas
National Center for Forestry Research
CNPGL              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Leite
National Centerfor Research on Dairy Cattle
CNPMA              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Monitoramento e Avalia,ao de
Impacto Ambiental (formerly CNPDA)
National Center for Research on Environmental Impact Monitoring
and Evaluation
CNPMF              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Mandioca e Fruticultura Tropical
National Center for Research on Cassava and Tropical Fruit Crops
CNPS               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Solos
(formerly SNLCS)
National Centerfor Soil Research
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CPAA               Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal da Amaz6nia Ocidental
(formed from the former CNPSD and UEPAE-AM)
Centerfor Agroforestry Research of Western Amazonia
CPAFs-             Centros de Pesquisa Agroflorestal - Acre/Amapa/Rondonia/Roraima
AC/AP/RO/RR        (formerly UEPAEs-AC/AP/RO/RR)
Centers for Agroforestry Research of Acre/Amapd/Rondonia/Roraima
CPAMN              Centro de Pesquisa Agropecu'aria do Meio Norte
(formerly UEPAE-PI)
Center for Agricultural Research for the Mid North
CPATC              Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria dos Tabuleiros Costeiros
(formerly CNPCo - Coconut)
Centerfor Agricultural Research for the Coastal Plains
CPATSA             Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tr6pico Semi-Arido
Centerfor Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics
CPATU              Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal da Amaz6nia Oriental
Centerfor Agroforestry Research of Eastern Amazonia
CTAA               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Tecnologia Agroindustrial de
Alimentos
National Research Centerfor Agroindustrial and Food Technologies
DEC                Departamento de Programac,ao Econ6mica e Desenvolvimento
Comercial
Economic Planning and Commercial Development Department
DOF                Departamento de Administra,ao Orcamentaria e Financeira
Budget and Financial Administration Department
DPD                Departamento de Pesquisa e Difusao de Tecnologia
Research and Technology Dissemination Department
DRM                Departamento de Administragao de Materiais e Servi,os
Materials and Services Management Department
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
Ernpresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecudria
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank



NARS              National Agricultural Research System
Sistema Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecudria
PAPP              Programa de Apoio Ao Pequeno Produtor
Northeast Rural Development Program
PAT               Plano Anual de Trabalho
Annual Work Plan
PRONAPA           Programa Nacional de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento da AgropecuAria
National Agricultural Research and Development Program
SEA               Secretaria de Administracao Estrat6gica
Strategic Management Secretariat
SEP               Sistema EMBRAPA de Planejamento
EMBRAPA Planning System
SPE               Secretaria de Programas Especiais
Special Programs Secretariat
SPI               Servigo de Producao de Informacao
information Production Service
SSE               Secretaria de Apoio aos Sistemas Estaduais
State System Support Secretariat
SUDENE            Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
Superintendence for the Development of the Northeast
UEPAE             Unidade de Execugao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
Unit of Research at State Level (now no longer exists)






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 3130-BR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...........................................i
EVALUATION SUIMMARY ...........................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT                                      ..........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................3
Development of EMBRAPA's Research Capacity ...........................................3
Evolution of the NARS .....4.....................................4
Financial Objectives .......................................... 5
Impact Assessment ...........................................5
C. THE IMPLEMENTATION RECORD  ..........................................6
General ...........................................6
Factors Subject to Government Control ..........................................7
Factors Subject to EMBRAPA's Control ..........................................7
D. SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                                      11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................... 12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................   12
I.  KEY  LESSONS LEARNED .........................................   13



PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLES
1.  Summary of Assessments
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits
3.  Project Timetable
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.   Studies Included in Project
8A. Project Costs
8B. Project Financing
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Status of Legal Covenants
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13. Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A. Aide Memoire
B. Key Dates in Project Formulation and Implementation
C. Supplementary Project Data
D. Borrower's Comments



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 3130-BR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Agricultural
Research Project in Brazil, for which a loan in the amount of US$47.0 million was approved
on October 24, 1989 and made effective on April 27, 1990. The loan was closed on June 30,
1996, compared with an originally scheduled closing date of June 30, 1995. Under a general
review of the government's external loan portfolio, US$5.0 million of the loan was canceled in
December 1994. The balance of US$42.0 million was fully disbursed.
2.    This ICR was prepared by a mission of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
which visited Brazil in February, 1997 for the Natural Resources, Environment and Rural
Poverty Operation Division, Department I (LAlER) of the Latin America and Caribbean
Region (LAC) in collaboration with Raimundo Caminha of the Bank's Recife Office and
Michael Carroll, Task Manager (LAIER). The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bemard,
Chief, (LAlER); Luis Coirolo, Brazil Portfolio Manager (LAIER); and Orville Grimes,
Projects Adviser (Country Department I). The report also includes comments provided by the
Borrower.
3.    The ICR is based on extensive material provided by the implementing agency, the
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA), including a comprehensive project
final report, material in Baink files in Washington and Recife, and visits to research stations
which were major recipients of project finance.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 3130 - BR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Recognizing the importance of improved agricultural technology to sectoral and national
development, the Brazilian Government in 1973 created the Brazilian Agricultural Research
Corporation (EMBRAPA) with the mandate to execute, coordinate and promote agricultural
research in the country. The Bank supported the institutional development of EMBRAPA and
its technical programs with a first agricultural research loan (1249-BR) approved in FY76 and a
second loan (2016-BR) approved in FY81. Both loans were seen as providing a technological
underpinning to other Bank support for the agricultural sector, particularly to rural
development, poverty alleviation and irrigation projects in the drought-prone Northeast of the
country, and to area development projects in the northwest, on the southern fringes of the
Amazon basin.
The Third Agricultural Research Project
2.    Objectives. The Third Agricultural Research Project aimed to 'support the execution,
dissemination and assessment of the results of research programs designed to contribute to the
formulation of sustainable agricultural production systems in two distinct agro-ecological areas.
The project would also strengthen the capacity of EMBRAPA and the state research agencies to
generate and disseminate technology, and increase the efficiency of the system of cooperative
agricultural research between EMBRAPA and state governments in the Northeast through the
adjustment of the ongoing research programs and the definition of appropriate procedures to
consolidate these programs under the aegis of EMBRAPA'2. Particular lessons from the two
previous projects to which the third project sought to respond were the need to address the
continued relative weakness of public sector research in the Northern (Amazon) and
Northeastern Regions; the need for a systems approach to technology generation and transfer;
and the need for better research monitoring and evaluation.
2  Memorandum of the President, Report P - 5107 - BR of September 11, 1989.



- iii -
3.    Components. The project had five components: development of new production
technologies in EMBRAPA research centers in the target regions (56% of base cost); support
for research in other EMBRAPA centers (32%); testing of new methods and partnerships in
technology transfer (4%); further evolution of the national agricultural research system (NARS)
and of EMBRAPA's leadership role (4%); and impact assessment and studies (4%). The
research corporations of state governments in the Northeast received training and consultancy
support. The total cost was estimated at US$97.8 million, with a loan size of US$47.0 million.
EMBRAPA was required to buy vehicles and computer equipment worth an additional US$9.1
million with its own funds. The project was prepared with Bank assistance and appraised in
March/April 1989. The loan became effective in April 1990 and closed, after a 12-month
extension, in June 1996. Under changes to the Loan Agreement, the Bank later agreed to
participate in the purchase of computers and vehicles, and US$5.0 million was cut from the
loan as part of a general rationalization of the government's portfolio of external loans.
4.    Design. The project repeated the general formula of the two previous Bank projects,
responding to needs as they were perceived at the time. On the evidence of EMBRAPA's past
performance the project was consistent with the Borrower's implementation capacity. Risks
due to a repetition of counterpart funding shortfalls were correctly identified. On the other
hand, no monitoring indicators were specified at appraisal and there was no direct link between
funded items and the specific research or other technical targets given in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). Defacto, therefore, the project focused on the creation of institutional
capacities for research rather than specified needs for new technology. No ex ante economic
analysis was attempted, and the impossibility of attributing specific costs to identified research
outputs precludes any reliable ex-post cost:benefit calculations.
implementation Experience and Results
5.    The early years of project implementation coincided with a period of unprecedented and
unforeseen changes in Brazil's constitution and government, reforms in its macro-economic and
trade policies, and a re-definition of the role of the public sector and its institutions. Serious
counterpart funding difficulties flowed from these changes and greatly slowed initial
disbursement. Delays were aggravated by cumbersome administrative processes within
EMBRAPA and changes in government requirements for the clearance and approval of tender
documents. Nevertheless, the government remained committed to the cause of agricultural
research throughout this turbulent period and EMBRAPA, aided by Bank flexibility, worked
hard to make up for delays when the turbulence subsided. At the same time EMBRAPA
undertook a major reform of its priority-setting and planning system. Loan funds earmarked
for preparation of recommendations and an action plan for evolution of the National
Agricultural Research system (NARS) were, instead, redeployed flexibly for supporting
consultancies and a workshop ancillary to this institutional reform.
6.    The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project eventually
achieved its major defacto aim, to which over 90% of costs were allocated, of strengthening
the physical and intellectual capacity of EMBRAPA centers for agricultural research within, or
in support of, the North and Northeast Regions. Although, as noted earlier, project funding



- iv-
could not be directly linked to individual research objectives or programs, the project allowed
EMBRAPA to strengthen a research portfolio which already converged in many respects with
the technical objectives listed in the SAR. Useful technologies (e.g. improved varieties as well
as production systems) and supporting knowledge (new biological control agents and better
resource maps) continued to be generated from the EMBRAPA system. Reform of EMBRAPA
itself, although supported rather than catalyzed by the project as envisaged, left the institution
better prepared to fulfill its mandated role of leadership of the NARS and to promote more
participation of entities outside the public sector. However, development of new partnerships
with state governments in technology adaptation and transfer was undermined when, due to
restrictions on public sector budgets at state level, complementary funding for these services
fell short of the levels envisaged at appraisal.
7.    The project was less successful in achieving the objectives of its smaller components.
Although monitoring indicators were added at supervision, they focused more on physical
implementation targets and did not allow assessment of the productive or institutional impact of
the project. EMBRAPA's cooperation with state government agencies was limited, but some
replicable experience was gained with other partnerships. Socio-economic studies intended to
focus on the returns to research and adoptability of technologies produced limited relevant
results.
8.    By loan closure the revised loan amount of US$ 42.0 million had been fully disbursed.
Final counterpart funding totaled US$ 44.8 million - as against the SAR figure when reduced
by the same proportion as the Bank loan, but including vehicles and computer equipment, of
US$ 53.4 million. The proportions of final expenditures under the main cost categories
generally matched appraisal estimates. Physical targets, for buildings and other hardware as
well as for "soft" items such as training, consultancies and technology demonstrations to
farmers, generally equaled or exceeded targets. However the project's Mid-Term Review was
postponed due to slow disbursements in the initial years, then canceled when subsequent
acceleration meant that disbursement was already almost complete.
9.    The generally satisfactory outcome of the project can be attributed to sustained
government commitment to research in the face of various constraints, plus efforts by
EMBRAPA to recover lost time once these constraints - and particularly a shortage of
counterpart funding - had eased.
10.   The project, being the successor to two projects previously rated as successful, was
appraised by the Bank and designed in a rather routine manner. There were only six formal
supervisions, with a critical two-year gap at a time of rapid local developments affecting the
project. For lack of adequate allocation of resources to supervision at that time, Bank
opportunities to improve outcomes of the minor components, particularly monitoring, technical
control and socio-economic studies, were probably missed. But the Bank's generally
supportive and flexible approach gave the Borrower greater freedom to control the evolution of
its agricultural research system.



11.   EMBRAPA has now achieved a degree of maturity at least as great as was envisaged at
appraisal. The Institution is better placed to respond appropriately to the demands of
technology users and to compete effectively for public or other funding in future. Given the
high level of integration between project activities and the overall performance of EMBRAPA,
these project-related gains are considered to have made a significant contribution to the
sustainability of the institution. The sustainability rating therefore refers mostly to
EMBRAPA's research structure rather than the project in isolation. They will be underpinned
by a recently-negotiated fourth Bank loan for agricultural research, which contains a major
element of competitive grant funding plus further support for weaker public institutions,
especially in the northern and northeastern states.
Lessons Learned
12.   The major lesson leamed from the project is that a maturing agricultural research
organization can be expected to apply external funding effectively provided that: (a) the
government remains committed to its future; (b) it has forward-looldng management; (c) it has
adequately skilled and rewarded staff; and (d) it has a flexible lending partner. When dealing
with such borrowers, the Bank's role, beyond supplying funds, should focus throughout the
project cycle on ensuring these prerequisites.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan No. 3130 - BR)
1. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    As stated in the Memorandum of the President 3, the objectives of Brazil's Third
Agricultural Project were to "support the execution, dissemination and assessment of the results of
research programs designed to contribute to the formulation of sustainable agricultural production
systems in two distinct agro-ecological areas. The project would also strengthen the capacity of
the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) and the state research agencies to
generate and disseminate technology, and increase the efficiency of the system of cooperative
agricultural research between EMBRAPA and state governments in the Northeast through the
adjustment on the ongoing research programs and the definition of appropriate procedures to
consolidate these programs under the aegis of EMBRAPA". The project aimed to respond to
lessons learned from two previous phases of Bank support. Lessons concerned the need to
address the continued relative weakness of research capabilities in the North and Northeast
Regions, which had so far benefited less than elsewhere from newly generated technologies; the
need to give more priority to a systems approach in generating and disseminating technologies
better adapted to the situations of small farmers in these regions; the need for the national
agricultural research system (NARS) to evolve, under EMBRAPA's leadership, to incorporate
greater participation of research and extension agencies of Brazil's state governments, the private
sector, NGOs, producer associations and farmers themselves; and the need for improved
monitoring and evaluation of research programs.
2.    Overall project objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to support
agricultural research programs in the north and northeast as well as basic research to backstop
these programs. An intention to finance upgrading of state research companies in the northeast as
well as EMBRAPA centers had been eliminated at the Government's request during preparation,
because under Brazil's new 1988 constitution sufficient funds were required to be provided by the
states themselves. However, both the SAR and the MOP mention consolidation of state-level
research components of the Bank's regional development projects in the Northeast Region under
the aegis of EMBRAPA. A second general objective was "to increase the efficiency of the
national agricultural research system by consolidating research planning and monitoring
3  Report P-5107-BR of September 11, 1989.



-2 -
procedures within the various units and institutions belonging to the system under the coordination
of EMBRAPA."
3.    The project had five components.
-   Development of new agricultural production technology at two regional and
eight national commodity centers in the north and northeast (US$45.5 million;
56% of base cost).
-   Research in support of regional programs at eight additional research centers,
mostly outside the target regions, covering biotechnology, food technology,
soil biology and management, irrigation and the environmental impact of
agricultural development (US$26.5 million, 32% of base cost).
-   Technology transfer, including testing of new methods, new collaborative
partnerships and wider use of field tests and demonstrations (US$3.3 million,
4 % of base cost).
-   Institutional development and strengthening of EMBRAPA and other parts of
the NARS, including reform and unification of management and operational
systems (US$3.6 million, 4% of base cost).
-   Impact assessment and special studies, including continuation of monitoring
and evaluation adopted under the second research project and expanded socio-
economic studies (US$3.2 million; 4% of base cost).
The total project cost was estimated at US$97.8 million including contingencies, with a Bank
loan of US$47.0 million. The loan was designed to finance the foreign exchange costs of
machinery, equipment, books, training and technical assistance, half the cost of civil works and
a very small proportion of other costs. This design appears to have been a legacy from the
Bank's Second Agricultural Research Project, in which foreign exchange controls were a major
factor in project implementation. With the opening of the economy over the life of the third
project, this design became less appropriate, especially in view of procurement arrangements
for goods assuring domestic bidders a 15% preference in international tenders.
4.    At the Government's request, a five-year disbursement period was agreed, rather that the
six or eight years favored by the Bank. Because of import restrictions which at the time precluded
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank regulations, EMBRAPA was required
to purchase with its own funds vehicles and computer equipment valued at a further US$9.1
million. Two financing changes were made later: with the liberalization of Brazil's markets the
Bank was later able to participate in part of the financing of vehicles and computers; and as a
result of a general review of the federal government's external loan portfolio, US$5.0 million was
cut from the project loan. The loan was approved on October 24, 1989, became effective on April
27, 1990 and closed, after a 12-month delay, on June 30, 1996.



- 3 -
5.    Project objectives were generally convergent with government policy and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. National agricultural policy at the time of appraisal was dominated by
concerns for food and commodity self-sufficiency and the evolution of agricultural exports.
However, improvement in the technological base of small-farmer agriculture in more problematic
areas - including greater sustainability of production systems in the Amazon and more stable
systems for the impoverished and drought-prone Northeast Region - was also among government
priorities. Subsequently, increasing concerns with environmental issues, particularly following the
1992 UN Conference on the Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, brought to even
greater prominence the need for more sustainable technology for both regions. Agricultural
improvements in the north and northeast, in support of ongoing Bank rural development, poverty
alleviation and irrigation projects, were already an important element in the country's assistance
strategy. To draw participants outside the public sector into the NARS, in the interests both of
greater technical relevance of programs and their financial sustainability, had been an objective of
the Bank's previous research projects. It was to become a very prominent government objective
during implementation of the third project.
6.    Given EMBRAPA's experience with implementation of past Bank-financed projects, as
well as a satisfactory implementation record with IDB-financed research projects in the South
and Southeast Regions, the project was justifiably considered as being within existing
implementation capacity. It did, however, focus on the two regions in which it had so far
proved most difficult to create well-staffed and stable research centers. The risks to timely
project implementation which could arise from a repetition of previous shortfalls in counterpart
funding of research were clearly identified. The risk that returns to research could be
jeopardized by poor coordination between researchers and extension agents and inadequate
feedback from farmers was also rightly flagged.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The project's overall objectives were primarily institutional, but divided between two aims:
the further development of agricultural research and technology dissemination capacity in public
research centers; and broader evolution of the agricultural research system in the target regions.
Each is discussed separately. In summary, the project either achieved these major objectives in the
manner planned at appraisal or it contributed significantly to their achievement, albeit in less direct
ways than were planned at appraisal. The project is also considered sustainable and likely to
facilitate valuable future evolution and enhanced productivity of the national agricultural research
system. Overall outcome is therefore rated as satisfactory.
Development of Research Capacity in the North and Northeast
8.    The first general objective of the project was to strengthen EMBRAPA and the state
agricultural research agencies to generate and disseminate technology which would contribute
to sustained agricultural development in the Amazon and Northeast. A total of 91 % of base
cost was allocated to this objective. EMBRAPA's research capability was successfully
strengthened in both of the target regions (particularly the Northeast) by the provision of
infrastructure, equipment, vehicles, staff training (much of it postgraduate), consultancies,



- 4 -
technical assistance and improved access to information. Some support - particularly training -
also went to state research corporations (Appendix C), but direct funding of their infrastructure
and equipment was excluded from the project design prior to appraisal because it was precluded
under the 1988 Constitution. Thus the project made only a small contribution to strengthening
research capabilities in the states. The items financed in EMBRAPA centers closely mirrored
those of the two previous projects in the series. They left the institutes better placed than
before, physically and intellectually, to carry out a larger and more relevant research program
for the North and Northeast. Items procured, at times after negotiated changes, generally
matched institute needs. Technical assistance consultancies supported various key stages of
program development or implementation. Trained staff generally returned to their original
locations and applied the new knowledge or skills acquired. Outside training led to continuing
links with centers of excellence in other countries while local universities have in some cases
been able to upgrade their teaching standards by using more highly qualified researchers as
lecturers. Training of technical support staff addressed another important constraint on the
productivity of EMBRAPA scientists. Physical and financial objectives were mostly achieved
or exceeded, and expenditure patterns were close to those estimated at appraisal (see Table 8A
and Appendix C, Table 14). Despite these positive achievements there was, however, a
tendency for the number of researchers at the more remote EMBRAPA centers in the two
target regions to decline slightly, while numbers at the regional centers have increased
(Appendix C, Table 17).
9.    Whether or not, through these strengthened research capabilities, the project led to
improved technologies being developed and disseminated cannot be assessed directly. The SAR
lists research programs to be supported by project funds. However, the design process did not
incorporate a systematic analysis of future program needs, resource gaps, and from this a
derivation of component costs on the basis of specific technical targets. Defacto therefore the
project expanded overall institutional capacity for research rather than targeting specific needs for
new technologies. Furthermore, a considerable time is needed - usually well beyond the six years
of project disbursement - for a new technology to progress from initial experiments to becoming
part of a production system in the farmer's field. In practice, project funding therefore ended up
providing general support in part to ongoing EMBRAPA research and in part allowing new
programs to be initiated.
10.   What can be said is that project support allowed recipient research centers to press forward
with or reinforce existing research lines and add to new programs, many of which had objectives
which coincided with the technical areas listed in the SAR. Thus a number of EMBRAPA
research products or achievements during the project period can be at least partially attributed to
the project. These include, for instance, the selection and release of a range of new food and cash
crops, fruit and vegetable varieties adapted to the north or northeast; resource mapping;
collections of indigenous germplasm; improvements to irrigated production systems for high-value
fruit and vegetable crops in the northeast as well as for livestock production in semi-arid areas;
forage development for semi-arid areas; use of fungi and bacteria for biological control of a variety
of insect pests; various innovations in post-harvest crop processing and storage; and important
supporting studies in the fields of biotechnology, genetic manipulation and nitrogen fixation.



Although much applied research continued to be dominated by plant breeding, some progress was
also made with increasing the proportion of systems work in the portfolio.
11.   The project also exposed larger numbers of EMBRAPA researchers in the target regions
to farmers and their problems. Targets for the promotion of new technologies through
demonstrations, field days, media publications and talks were generally also achieved or exceeded
(see Table 5). And state-level adaptive research corporations in the northeast, although for the
most part excluded from the project at the design stage, did benefit from the training program
and project-funded consultancies. Of the 303 scientists who were sent on academic (mostly
Ph.D) courses, 46 were from state corporations.
Evolution of the NARS
12.   The second general project objective was to increase the efficiency of regional sections of
the research system by consolidating research planning and monitoring procedures within the
various units and institutions under the coordination of EMBRAPA. Despite the stated
importance given to this objective, it received only a small overall share of financing. Only a
part of the 4% of costs allocated to institutional development was earmarked for preparation of
an action plan to strengthen and restructure the system; only a part of the program of studies
under the impact assessment component (a further 4% of base cost) could also be construed as
supporting its overall evolution. During the project period there was nevertheless considerable
change in both the NARS and in EMBRAPA's role. EMBRAPA designed and installed a new
priority-setting and planning system intended to replace a previously supply-driven with a demand-
led approach to technology dissemination and transfer. The new system involves greater
participation of consumers and technology users outside the public sector in priority setting. It
gives considerable further emphasis to a production systems approach. It is intended to facilitate
more partnerships between government research organizations and bodies outside the public
sector.
13.    The impetus for these changes was provided mainly by the wave of reforms of the
public sector in general which swept through the country. In contrast to the stated appraisal
objective of pointing the way for change, project resources were in practice used in a
supporting role, principally to finance a major consultant review and workshop on
EMBRAPA's draft action plan for the future. However, this project contribution was perhaps
more commensurate with the relatively limited funds actually allocated to this aim.4
14.   Financing constraints of state governments in the northeast have so far prevented their
research corporations and state extension services from responding very actively to EMBRAPA
leadership. To only a limited extent was EMBRAPA, using project support, able to fill these
unanticipated gaps. However, the demand-led system which has been set up and more recent
measures to attract and administer grant funding appear sustainable and capable of drawing in
states and other members of the NARS as more active partners in future. Meanwhile, the
4  Eventual expenditure under the institutional development component was in fact almost double the SAR
estimate; but most of the increase was accounted for by hardware items.



- 6 -
technology diffiusion component did, on a local basis at least, create some closer links with state
extension and research services, the private sector, municipalities and farmer groups or individuals.
15.   Among individual project components, only impact assessment and special studies (the
smallest component in terms of cost) fell seriously short of stated objectives by whatever criteria
"success" is defined. Socio-economic studies and assessments of the potential benefits of research
mostly had little output relevant to their intended purposes. The project Mid-Term Review did
not take place.
Financial Objectives
16.   Total project expenditure was US$86.5 million. The project loan amount of US$47.0
million was equivalent to the total estimated foreign exchange cost. Following the reduction of
US$5.0 million, which was agreed in December 1994, the remaining total loan amount of
US$42.0 million was disbursed by end-1996. Foreign exchange costs appear to have been
substantially overestimated at appraisal (see Table 8A). Although it is difficult to estimate
exactly, it would appear that they actually amounted to only about US$30.0 million (including
about US$4.0 million for computing equipment eventually purchased with loan funds). This
exaggeration may reflect the concern of project designers to address real foreign exchange
limitations which were a concern of previous projects, but which became less relevant with the
liberalization of Brazil's economy. The distribution of expenditures between categories and
components broadly mirrored the pattern set out in project design, although there was a
tendency for funds to be concentrated in the larger centers (CNPAT, CENARGEN and
EMBRAPA headquarters). For example, around 25 % of technical assistance expenditure was
concentrated at EMBRAPA headquarters in Brasilia.
Impact Assessment
17.   No ex ante economic analysis was attempted for the project, and the lack of specific
cost attributions to individual research programs precludes ex post cost:benefit calculations.
Work done by research centers to assess incremental benefits from technologies generated and
attribute them to project expenditures did not produce reliable results. Socio-economic studies
(see Table 7) were curtailed through a lack of EMBRAPA staff resources, limited use of
consultants, and generally a lack of focus on factors related to adoption of technologies by
farmers in the North and Northeast. Hence there is an insufficient base for quantitative
evaluation of research benefits over the project period.
C. THE IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
General
18.   Project implementation was not greatly influenced by factors outside the control of the
government. Perhaps the only event of major importance was the UN Conference on the
Environment and Development in 1992, which sensitized public opinion to the importance of
developing more sustainable production technologies, especially in fragile environments such as



- 7 -
the Brazilian Amazon. This may have contributed to a decision to alter the titles and the
emphasis of programs in the northern Region to include specific mention of agroforestry. At a
local level, failure of at least three building contractors led to a need to select others, with
consequent delays and cost overruns on the works concerned. On the other hand, the late
1980s and early 1990s in Brazil were characterized by many changes under the control of the
legislature or government embracing the national constitution, macro-economic and trade
policies, and a re-definition of the role of the public sector and its institutions. Several of these
impacted on the project. Linked with - and partly attributable to - these national changes, were
reforms within EMBRAPA itself. The project thus came to be implemented in circumstances
which could not have been fully foreseen when it was appraised. It is to the credit of the
Borrower and lender that despite this turbulence the project still largely achieved its major
objectives, albeit in a period closer to that preferred by the Bank than in the five years on
which the government had insisted at appraisal.
Factors Subject to Government Control
19.   A change in national administration shortly before loan effectiveness was followed by
restrictions on the budget of the Federal Government. These severely curtailed counterpart
funding. A number of federal parastatals in the agricultural sector were abolished, including
the federal extension agency EMBRATER. With the disappearance of EMBRATER,
EMBRAPA temporarily inherited some of its responsibilities including continued
administration of the Bank's Second Extension Project. Government requirements for the
preparation and approval of tender documents were changed.
Factors Subject to EMBRAPA's Control
20.   The President of EMBRAPA changed almost immediately after loan effectiveness. This
was followed by organizational changes which included the dissolution of the headquarters
section which had substantial experience with managing previous Bank and other international
projects. Shortly afterwards, perhaps spurred to action by the wave of reforms sweeping
through the public sector, EMBRAPA began to develop its new demand-led planning system.
The new system was implemented in 1994 and was substantially different from the previous
system, which was developed during the two earlier Bank projects and was assumed in the SAR
to continue during the third project. These factors may all have drawn institutional attention
away from project implementation in the early years, although this cannot be said with
certainty. A number of more specific internal factors also influenced early implementation,
including the rigidity of EMBRAPA's financial control procedures at the time and the difficulty
of covering a widely dispersed civil works program with a small engineering staff based in
regional centers.
21.   Under the combined impact of these factors, the first tender documents under the project
were not approved until 1992, and at the end of that year disbursement was only 27% of the SAR
projection. However, the flow of counterpart funds under the federal budget later improved
substantially, so that by the time of project closure after a delay of 12 months, the amended loan
disbursement target of US$42.0 million had been fully committed. The eventual total project



- 8 -
expenditure of US$86.5 million included counterpart funding of US$44.6 million, compared with
the SAR figure, including the vehicles and computer equipment, of US$59.9 million.
Implementation Impact
22.   About US$21.0 million of project funds were received by EMBRAPA centers in the
northern region with the regional center, CPATU, receiving the largest share (US$7.8 million,
incorporating US$2.7 million of civil works) (see Appendix C, Table 3). CPAA - the center
for agro-forestry research in the western Amazon - at US$4.2 million (including US$1.0
million of civil works), was the other major beneficiary in the north. The northeast centers
received a total of US$31.0 million, with the national center for tropical agro-industrial
research receiving the largest share, at US$7.7 million. The remaining seven centers in the
northeast each received between US$3.0 and US$4.4 million, including the regional center,
CPATSA. The largest single recipient of project funds was the genetic resources and
biotechnology center, CENARGEN, which was allocated US$10.3 million, including almost
US$4.0 million of civil works. Centers providing strategic support received in total US$23.8
million. Project expenditure per scientist averaged about US$76,000 but ranging from up to
US$145,000 for smaller centers down to under US$35,000 (Appendix C, Table 3).
D. SUSTAINABILITY
23.   EMBRAPA is now a mature public research organization committed to fulfilling its
mandated role in the two target regions as well as the role of leader of the Brazilian NARS.
This is due to a combination of project support, impacts of two previous Bank as well as other
externally funded research projects, and endogenous reforms within EMBRAPA which were
convergent with the general aims of the third Bank project and supported by flexible use of
project funds. EMBRAPA has in place the planning procedures, physical capacity and human
resources needed to respond better to public demands for technology and to compete more
actively in future for funding from the government and technology users themselves. It is well
placed, also, to take the lead in forming new partnerships within the NARS in response to
demand. The centers strengthened by the project in the North and Northeast Regions -
especially the smaller and more distant ones - may require some further institutional support to
make them as competitive as those elsewhere, but most have nevertheless progressed
considerably.
24.   Always provided that the federal government remains committed to maintaining the
existing staff and infrastructure (i.e. the "standing capacity" of the institution) at their present
levels, EMBRAPA can therefore be expected to sustain its contribution to the generation of
agricultural technology through successful competition for future funding. This is favored by the
fact that the government is about to embark on a fourth Bank supported research project, intended
to provide competitive grants for new research programs plus institutional support to selected,
weaker, national institutes. A new loan for such a project has recently been negotiated and
approved by the Board on May 22, 1997.



- 9 -
25.   The influence of EMBRAPA on the development of the cooperative agricultural research
system in the target regions was restricted during the project, due partly to the inability of states to
provide the expected financial support for their own research corporations (the northeast) and
their extension services (both regions). However contacts with farmer groups under the
technology transfer component, and in particular the stimulus which the project gave to some
municipalities to take over public extension responsibilities from state governments as called for
under the 1988 constitution, have provided at least localized precedents for more diversified
partnerships in the NARS. Provided EMBRAPA succeeds - as expected - in maintaining its
leadership of the NARS, these precedents supported by the project are likely to be replicated.
Furthermore, it is expected that in future EMBRAPA centers will form more partnerships with the
state research corporations of the northeast to compete for grants. By helping states to access
new funding sources, EMBRAPA will thus help state research corporations to regain some of the
ground lost due to restricted state budgets.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   The Bank provided the Borrower with design assistance, beginning a year before closure
of the second project, with a status review of agricultural and forestry research by two eminent
consultants5 and a proposal to the government for a major review of research policy to the end
of the century. This was followed by an identification mission (1988) and a memorandum of
understanding on the project concept which set the scene for local preparation work.
EMBRAPA issued a preparation report early in 1989. The project which emerged was for the
most part a continuation of the previous pattern, although major changes in the role of the
public sector, including the closure of EMBRATER, the national extension corporation, were
already taking place at the time. However these implications were reconciled with the project
design to the satisfaction of the Bank and government, and the project was appraised in
March/April 1989.
27.   The majority of funding was presented by the appraisal team as supporting specific
research projects: Working Papers accompanying the SAR dealt mainly with individual
commodities or the resources of centers. However as stated earlier, defacto the project
responded more to EMBRAPA's requests to expand its overall research capacity for the target
regions, and had only a general link to the commodities, systems or background research topics
which it sought to support. No monitoring indicators were specified at appraisal; a set was agreed
only during the first supervision mission and these centered more on physical targets for
implementation than outputs. It was assumed that most pre-existing O&M arrangements would be
maintained under the third project, with the addition of regional research coordinators to oversee
implementation in each region.
28.   Given that the project as appraised was largely a repeat of earlier approaches, that
EMBRAPA and the Bank had worked together for a dozen years and that the two previous
projects had had satisfactory outcomes, this rather routine approach by the Bank to design and
Brazil: The Status of Agricultural and Forestry Research, Final Report by N. Borlaug and F. Zillinsky,
August 22, 1986.



- 10-
appraisal can be understood. Furthermore, Brazil was experiencing a macro-economic crisis and
a series of massive adjustments which had prior claims on the Bank's attention and resources. At
appraisal the major changes later made by EMBRAPA itself to its organization and modus
operandi, at the national level, could not have reasonably been foreseen. However the
combination of the approach to costing and the absence of suitable indicators precluded any sort
of cost: benefit analysis for individual research outputs. And the appraisal team might have
anticipated a subsequent failure of the attempt to use regional coordinators for research in the
north and northeast. Their terms-of-reference, as drafted by EMBRAPA at the request of the
Bank, cast them in a largely administrative role rather than making them responsible for the
scientific quality and relevance. Furthermore they had no executive authority over allocation of
funds and duplicated a function also performed at EMBRAPA headquarters. The concept was
eventually abandoned as unworkable.
29.   The Bank mounted only six formal supervision missions, with a crucial gap of two years
from early 1992 when the Task Manager who had seen the project through from preparation was
replaced. Thereafter routine supervision responsibility was transferred to the Bank's Recife office,
where staff were, however, concurrently grappling with major implementation problems and
reformulation of the Bank's portfolio of Northeast Rural Development Projects. The change
resulted in an easier working relationship with the project coordinating team in EMBRAPA,
speeding clearances and facilitating disbursement at a time when counterpart funding problems
were diminishing. It was instrumental in allowing disbursement to be completed with an eventual
delay of only 12 months, although at the expense of some weakening of formal financial
monitoring and control from Washington. Relatively frequent contacts between Recife or
Washington staff and EMBRAPA headquarters or centers, taking advantage of proximity while on
other Bank duties, filled some of the gaps in formal supervision.
30.   The Mid-Term Review planned for March 1992 was postponed because tendering delays
and slow disbursement made it premature. When supervision was resumed in 1994, a Mid-Term
Review was no longer considered appropriate since major changes in research priority-setting and
coordination which were generally convergent with Bank thinking on the public funding of
research had already been made by EMBRAPA at national level; and by then disbursement had
picked up impressively and the project was scheduled to close within a year. At the same stage the
Bank Recife Office proposed testing a competitive grants system which would have piloted what
became the main component of the planned successor project. Despite preparatory work in the
Recife office, this idea was not taken forward.
31.   The Bank's inability, when faced with the calls from the rest of its Brazil portfolio, to
find sufficient resources for more organized supervision of the research project is the main
reason why supervision performance is rated overall as unsatisfactory, even though the staff
concerned did their best possible in the circumstances. But by giving low priority to
supervision during a period of rapid institutional change, the Bank probably missed
opportunities to improve the outcome particularly of the smaller project components, which
were included in the project mainly in response to Bank policy and suggestions, or to the
lessons of the first two projects. More useful arrangements for technical monitoring and
supervision of research in the topics which the project was intended to support could have been
put in place. Firmer backing from Washington of Recife's suggestions to pilot some form of



- 11 -
competitive research funding could have generated useful experience and training for the design
of the fourth research project. Resources allocated to closer technical supervision of
institutional issues and socio-economic research could have improved the relevance and
standard of socio-economic studies and sharpened impact evaluation, which were the weakest
areas of project implementation.
32.   As it was, Bank supervision resources usually did not allow staff to go far beyond
responding to day-to-day borrower requests or approving minor adjustments. One of the
consequences was a reduction in the catalytic role which tlie Bank was originally expected to play
in reshaping the cooperative agricultural research system in the Northeast and EMBRAPA itself.
However, it must be recognized that the Bank flexibility also supported and reinforced national-
level reforms of internal origin which represented a timely and desirable maturation of the
EMBRAPA system. And because of a higher degree of client ownership, these endogenous
reforms can be regarded as preferable to changes involving only reaction to pressure by the Bank.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The government maintained its
commitment to agricultural research throughout the disbursement period, despite severe
budgetary restrictions and major associated policy and structural changes affecting the role of
the public sector. When national-level restrictions were somewhat relaxed, it was quick to
restore the flow of counterpart funds to the project. EMBRAPA, as the implementing agency,
and the government complied with loan requirements for the preparation of annual workplans,
annual and final reports, and submission of audited accounts, etc. (See Table 10). The major
project expenditure and physical objectives were achieved.
34.   There were, however, implementation shortcomings especially in early project years. For
instance EMBRAPA delayed submitting audited accounts for 1990 which placed the government
temporarily in breach of the Loan Agreement, and had difficulties in meeting simultaneously all the
demands by centers for support with their civil works programs - understandable in view of some
of the distances involved. But iLhe potentially negative effect of breaking up EMBRAPA's
implementation coordination team inherited from the previous project was offset in 1992 by the
appointment of satisfactory substitutes. During the project period EMBRAPA furthermore
devised and put into place the major and beneficial national reforms to its research planning
system. While initiated largely outside and going beyond the project framework, EMBRAPA
drew effectively on project support to facilitate these changes. EMBRAPA contracted out to an
international agency the management of international consultants' contracts; shortly afterwards it
also contracted out the management of national consultant's contracts, and ultimately - in an
effort to speed disbursement - the management of training arrangements. This greatly facilitated
recruitment and administration, although monitoring and reporting of the consultancy program did
not reach standards which might reasonably have been expected from the international agency
under the terms of its contract. EMBRAPA also requested Bank permission to use project funds
to recruit long-term consultants to assist the corporation with project management. Two
consultants were engaged, with terms of reference requiring them inter alia to oversee monitoring



- 12 -
and evaluation of the project's research programs. However, both appear to have quickly been
assigned to other duties.
35.   The Borrower was somewhat less successful in dealing with technical control of the
project. When the plan to install regional coordinators of research was abandoned, this
responsibility fell back on the center. The EMBRAPA Board and headquarters units designated in
the SAR - as for the two previous projects - as having ultimate technical control over the research
program, were responsible for the corporation's national research portfolio, of which the project
financed only a part. They had some early difficulty in ensuring that resources were used in strict
compliance with project objectives. When the headquarters project coordinating team was
strengthened in 1992, efforts still tended to center on the management of disbursements and
procurement. Oversight to ensure conformity of research programs with declared technical
objectives and to monitor technical achievements remained a secondary priority. In 1993, when
EMBRAPA's demand-led system of research priority setting and planning superseded the system
assumed at appraisal, its research portfolio was simultaneously compressed from 66 programs and
over 4,000 projects to 16 programs and about 450 projects. Most individual research lines tagged
under the original system as benefiting from capacity created by the Third Research Project then
became merged with other lines not supported by the project, making technical control over the
use of project funds for the generation of specific technologies virtually impossible.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   As was common at the time, no internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated for
the project at appraisal. The lack of means to tie project expenditures to the evolution of specific
technologies during implementation precluded any ex post quantification of economic impact.
Further, given the design of the project and the changes to the national system being made by
EMBRAPA, it would have been extremely demanding on analytical skills and staff time to have
done any meaningful analysis of this type. The relatively simpler task of estimating financial cost
and benefits from a selection of technologies at the user level was poorly carried out and yielded
little useful information.
37.   Overall, however, the project is rated as satisfactory, reflecting the achievement of its
major development objectives, flexible support to the Borrower and its likely sustainability.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   Annual plans for the continuation of ongoing research programs which were recipients
of project funds have already been made. A declining share of loan funds in operating costs
incorporated into the project design has resulted in all but 4% of these operating costs already
being absorbed into EMBRAPA's regular budget. Future operation of the regional and
supporting research centers funded by the project is expected to be based on successful
competition for grants, often - in line with the new shape of the NARS which is emerging - in
partnership with Universities, NGOs, private companies or others outside the EMBRAPA
system. The new arrangements are to be supported by the Bank under a fourth agricultural
research project, recently negotiated; competitive grants are expected to be supplemented by



- 13 -
further training, studies, etc. under the institutional development component of the same
project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(i)  Because the Borrower maintained a commitment to research despite a series of
overarching national adjustments and reforms which withdrew the public sector
from other areas of agricultural support, the project was able to reach its major
financial and physical objectives. Bank flexibility in adjusting to reform was an
important contributor to these achievements.
(ii)  Initiatives for institutional reform of publicly-funded agricultural research and for
changes in its relationship with other participants in the national agricultural
research system arose largely independently, from within the implementing
institution, rather than - as envisaged at appraisal - being directly catalyzed by
Bank support. The reforms were, however, convergent with Bank thinking; and
because they were largely endogenous probably went further and have generated
greater local commitment and potential benefits that the project designers could
have hoped.
(iii) In the face of other demands for its assistance, the Bank gave low priority to
project supervision. In particular, supervision was interrupted at a critical stage
of project implementation. This brought a risk that institutional reforms could
have drifted into directions inconsistent with project objectives. That they did
not, shows the importance of the prior unanimity of vision and familiarity with
world views on what constitutes an appropriate evolution of the public role in
agricultural research, which had been built up in the case of this project through
dialogue with the Bank and through EMBRAPA's other external contacts, over
a longer tern.
(iv) Close supervision is particularly important for successful outcomes of project
components which are included primarily to meet Bank requirements, and which
are not as well understood by the Borrower or perceived as having the same
priority - in the case of this project, socio-economic studies, monitoring and
evaluation.
(v)  Attempts to overcome the above difficulties with neglected components through
consultants hired by the Borrower were not effective, showing the importance
of supervising consultants just as closely as project implementing agencies if they
are to be used to solve such implementation problems.
(vi) Regionalization, or decentralization of technical control of research to the
institute level, is only effective if financial control is also decentralized.
(vii) The approach to project costing and an initial lack of monitoring indicators
precluded meaningful cost:benefit analysis of research outputs. If ex-post



- 14-
evaluation of agricultural research is planned, the monitoring system needs to be
designed from the outset to record expenditures for each research line to be
analyzed, which must remain distinct from any other line. Even if these
conditions are met, skilled and dedicated analysts - preferably external - are
likely to be needed to obtain meaningful results. They may be too costly for use
except on a sample basis.
(viii) The project confirmed the value of long-term continuity of Bank support for the
establishment and subsequent maturation of national agricultural research
systems.



- 15 -
2. PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Ne&lfigible  Not Aplicable
Macro policies                      f    21 [9  rI  2I
Sector policies                                  [II
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                              EI] z                       E
Poverty reduction                     E                         m     
Gender issues                       EED                        [7 i
Other social objectives              L            L            [I]
Environmental objectives                                       EJ            [ I
Public sector management             L             7            a            L
Private sector development           L            LiE  1                     Li
Other (specify)                                                              



- 16-
B. Project sustainability          Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance            satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                              F95
Preparation assistance          E]          [I]          F]
Appraisal                       K]                K1
Supervision                     E]           O           E1 6
Highly
D. Borrower performance          satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                     I  1           3            3
Implementation                  K]           K]           K
Covenant compliance             K]             ]          O
Operation (if applicable)       K]           K]           K
Highlv                                    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactorv
6 Rating refers primarily to allocation of Bank resources: see text.



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                    Year of       Status
approval                 l
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Research II  Strengthening EMBRAPA's research    1981       Completed
capacity through training, infrastructure,          1987
(2016-BR)                equipment and operating costs
Following operations
1. Agricultural          Support for diversification and         1997       Implementation
Technology Development   decentralization of national agricultural           expected to start
(Ln. 4169-BR)            research system, including introduction of          early FY98
competitive grants                                                l
Linked contemporary
operations
1. Agricultural Extension   Support for national technical assistance  1986  Closed 1995
II (2679-BR)             and rural extension service (SIBRATER),
through provision of vehicles, equipment,
infrastructure, training and studies
2. Northeast Rural       10 State projects providing support to rural   1986-87  Completed.
Development Projects     communities and small-scale producers,              Now being
(2524-BR, 2761-BR, 2523-   including some support to on-farm adaptive        succeeded by
BR, 2763-BR, 2718-BR,    research                                            NE Rural
2762-BR, 2861-BR,                                                           Poverty
2863-BR, 2860-BR,                                                            Alleviation
2862-BR)                                                                    Projects
3. Northeast Irrigation I    Irrigation development of 51,000 ha and  1990  On-going. Due
(Ln. 3170-BR)            institutional strengthening through farmers'       to close June
organisations and improving performance of          1997
public agencies
4. Rondonia and Mato     Support for natural resources management    1992   On-going
Grosso Natural Resources  in bordering Amazon region
Management (Ln. 3444-
BR, Ln. 3492-BR)



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned            Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      .                    3/16-21/88
Preparation                                                          9/19-29/88
Appraisal                                                            3/27 - 4/20/89
Negotiations                                                         8/28/89 - 9/1/89
Letter of development policy (if applicable)    N.A.                 N.A.
Board presentation                             __10124/89
Signing                                                              1/10/90
Effectiveness                                                        4/27/90
First disbursement                                                   7/18/90
Midterm review (if applicable)                  3/31/92
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  N.A.             N.A.
Project completion                              9/1/95               12/31/95
Loan closing                                    6/30/95              2/7/96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Appraisal Estimate        7.3      17.0    30.9    41.4    46.3    47.0
Actual                    2.4      4.9      84      15.4    23.0    360      42.0"
Actual %of Estimate       33%      29%     27%      37%     50%     77%      89%"
Date of final disbursement                     December 10, 1996
" US$ 5.0 million canceled from the loan on December 21, 1994.



- 19-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators"/               =
Unit            Estimated            Actual2'              (of SAR)
1. Generation of Technolo.y                                                       _
Resarch P                                          No.               1000               1386                 139
Civil works (new)                                                   221                18904                  86
Civil works (refurbishment)                       USS             273,000          1,859,070                 680
Other civil works                                 uss             388,000          1,106,400                 285
Furniture and equipment                           US$           11,211,000         6,089,730                  54
Animals                                           USS              930,00            235,850                 25
Boolm and periodicals                              USS           3,071,000          1,869,960                 61
In-country training                    No                 714               1995                 279
Tn-country tramning                                                              _________
Overseas training                                  No.                310                142                  46
g                         ~~~~~     ~     ~ ~~~Months  144         S5                  69
National Consultants                             M
Foreign Consultants                              Months               197                 97                  49
11.   Research Support Programs
Research projects                                  No.                163                538                318
Civil works (new)                                  M     .          11252              7298                   65
Civil works (refurbishment)                       USS             315,000          1,054,270                 335
Other civil works                                 US$             538,000             57000                   10
Furniture and equipment                    |                     8,879,000         5,350,800                  60
In-country training                       N|o.                        251                200                  80
Overseas training                                  No                 141                 96                  68
National consultants                             Months               428                 76                  18
Foreign consultants                              Months               128                 94                  73
I11. Technology Transfer                    _      _    _
Observation plots                                  No.              2,134                343                  16
Demonstration plots                                No               2,769                706                  25
Production systems                                 No.                242                 49                  20
Training courses for farmers/others                No.                439               1007                229
Furniture and equipment                           USS             856,000          2,838,000                 331
Animals                                           US$              55,000
IZ Institutional Development
Diagnostic studies                                 No.                 27                 10                  37
National training (EMBRAPA)                        No                 115                 49                  42
OverseaS training (EMBRAPA)                        No.                 12                 48                 450
National training (State companies)                No.                371                 53                  14
Overseas traming (State companies)                 No.                 71                 27                  38
V. Project Impact/Special Studies
Studies commenced                                  No.                 26                25                   96
Studies completed                                  No                  26                 19                  73
"As established during first supervision mission.
2t Indicators as at 6/30/96.
Source: EMBRAPA, DEC.



- 20 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators m SAR/Presidenfsl
Report                              Estimated                                  Actual
None                                                           Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                    at appraisaVredefmed                   Status                   hnpact of study
1. Diagnostic studies of 8 state    As a basis for restructuring and  4 companies given orientation   Superseded by events.
research compames.            strengthening national research    following diagnostic studies  EMBRAPA's state liaison
network.                                                       section (SSE) is to embark on
new diagnostic studies.
2. Diagnostic studies of      As a basis for restructuring and   Not found.                   Subsequently, a detailed
EMBRAPA decentralized units.  strengthening natural research                                  critical review of one center
network                                                        (CNPGL) has led to
rationalization of research
l_________________________   program.
3. Review of all agricultural  Redefinition of research priorities.  Review of EMBRAPA's      One of the bases on which
research in Brazil.                                             research program conducted    EMBRAPA's Second Master
1990, completed in          Plan, mcludmg revised
prelimmnary fonn May 1992.    planning system, was
l_________________________   developed.
4. Mid -Term Review.          Assessment of management systems   Not conducted. A workshop    -
and effectiveness of research-    was held to review
extension linkages.               EMBRAPA's future strategy
and Second Master Plan.
5. Project Completion Report    Summary of project's performance    Completed 1997            Availability of comprehensive
and evaluation of lessons learned.                             information on project
implementation
6. Socio-economic zoning of the   -                              Discontinued 1993            Provided background for
Amazon.                                                                                       many papers and artcles on
Amazon development and
was forerunner of Brazilian
component of current IFPRI
study of Amazon fanming
systems
7. Baseline farmer survey and                                    A series of surveys by a     Greater general understanding
follow-up.                                                       number of centers to establish   by study participants of
socioeconomic characteristics   farm/fanner status and
of farner research clients.  farming practices. In one or
two centers, progress towards
categorization offarm clients
of research with a view to
orientation of research
programs.
8. Numerous studies on policy,                                   Completion and publication   Wider availability of
trade, development trends and                                    by individuals or groups of  infornation and further
agricultural phenomena of local                                  researchers.                 discussion of aspects relating
significance related to research                                                             to economic and agricultural
work,                                                                                         development in the North and
Northeast.



- 21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                         Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Local           Foreign            Total            Local           Foreign          Total
costs            costs                              costs            costs
item
1. Civil Works                 7.66            17.08             24.74            19.97             1.002          20.97
2.Furmiture,                  17.90            13.92             31.82            15.92             15.11           31.03
Equipment & Books
3. Technical                   4.91             5.52             10.43              1.92            2.85             4.77
Assistance
4. Training                    6.71            10.43             17.14             4.49             9.75            14.24
5. Operating Costs            13.69             -                13.69            13.54             2.002           15.54
TOTAL                        50 8711          46.95"            97.82            55.84            30.71            86.55
Sources: Appraisal - SWP B 17 June 1989
Actual - EMBRAPA. BIRD III Relatorio Final
" SAR Annex 4 (b)
v Mission estimate.
Table 8B: Project Financing
l____________________________            Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                Actual/atest Estimate (USSM)
Local       Foreign        Total           Local          Foreign       Total
costs        costs                         costs           costs
Source
IBRD/IDA                               -            47.0         47.0               11.3          30.7         42.0
Cofinancing institutions                                                                                            |
Other external sources
Domestic contribution'                50.8           -           50.8              44.5             -          44 5
TOTAL                                 50 8          47.0         97.8               55.8          30.7         86.5
3 Appraisal estimate excludes US$ 9.1 million to be spent on vehicles and computing equipment. Actual figures include US$ 5.1 mnillion for these
items.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No IERR was calculated at appraisal.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment    Description of
Agreement  Section    type      status     date        date          covenant           Comments
LA           3.03     13        C                               Fumish, as part of
PA           2.03                                               PAT, evidence of
ownership or long-
term user rights,
insurance, etc.
LA          4.01 (a)  1         C                               Maintain project
PA                                                               accounts
rLA          4.01 (b)  1        CD                              Audit accounts and   Delays and
PA           (i)+(ii)                                           submit reports to    shortcomings in
Bank                audits project
especially 1990.
Audits for 1996
intiated 3/97
LA          4.01 (b)  1         C                               Monthly certified
(iii)                                              statements
(CESA/FESA)                            l
LA          4.02      4         CD                              Counterpart funding  Shortfalls and cuts in
early years;
ultimately
satisfactory
LA           6.01 (b)  11       C                               Contractual
PA           2.04 (a)                                           arrangements
between EMBRAPA
and participating state
research agencies
LA           6.01 (d)  3        C                               Subsidiary
Agreements between
Borrower and
EMBRAPA
LA           6.01 (f)  10       C                               Assign and maintain
PA           2.05 (c)                                           minimum number of
staff (20) for transfer
component
________   _________                technology                              l
PA          2.02      5         C                               Procurement
procedures
PA           2.06     5         C                               Create and maintain
position of Project
Coordinator in
accordance with
agreed terms of
reference



- 23 -
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment    Description of
Agreement  Section    type      status     date       date          covenant           Comments
PA          2.07     5          CP                              Create and mamtain  Regional coordinators
positions of Regional appointed but found
Research           to be unworkable
Coordinators       within EMBRAPA
management context
and without control
over funding
PA          2.08 (a)  9         CD                              Submit draft       Delays, often relating
consolidated PAT and to reorganization
budget for review and withm EMBRAPA,
comment by         agreed with Bank
November 30 each
year
PA          2.09 (a)  9         C                              Prepare and send for
(ii)                                              review semi-annual
progress reports with
contents and dates as
_specified
PA          2.09 (a)  9        C                                Cause participatmg
(iii)                                              entities to prepare
and submit to
EMBRAPA semi-
annual progress
reports                 ._l
PA          2.09 (c)  9         CP                              Special studies    Program of studies
submitted for review  initially submitted,
and comment as soon but later program was
as practicable     curtailed
PA          2.09 (b) 9         NC       31 March               Mid-term review and Neither Bank nor
92                    implementation of   EMBRAPA
recommendations    conducted Mid-Tern
review. By
agreement, project
funds used mstead
for workshop to
review II Plano
Diretor
PA          2.10     4         NC                              Purchase of vehicle   Purchases not
and computer       initially made by
equipment in timely  EMBRAPA. Loan
manner             amended 3/2/93
allocatmg US$ 4 m
for financmig of
vehicles and
computers



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No infringements identified
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned                 Revised                Actual
project cycle                                                                            11
Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to                                                            61
appraisal                90                      103
Appraisal                                                                  8
Negotiations through
Board approval                                                                           l
Supervision                                                               70
Completion                    _                             _              9
TOTAL                                                                   148



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                  Number                  Specialized      Implemen-      Develop-
project cycle     Month/      of       Days in      staff skills        a            ment         Types of
year     persons    field       represented         taton       objectives    problems
Through appraisal    3/88          3         5       Engineer                              -
Agriculturalists
9/88         5         10      Agriculturalists
Economist
Architect
4/89         3         24      Agriculturalists
Architect
Appraisal through                  -                                         -             - 
Board approval                          I_               __                         __l
Supervision          5190          2         5      Agriculturalists         2             1        Counterpart
funding,
procurement
11/90        2         12      Agriculturalists        2             1         Counterpart
funding,
Project
Management
7/91         3         18      Agriculturalists        2              1        Counterpart
funding,
Project
Management
5/92         2         137     Agriculturalists        2              1
Counterpart
funding,
Project
Management
6/94         2         11      Agriculturalists        S              S        Counterpart
funding,
Project
Management
Training
delay
2/95         2          5      Agriculturalists        S             S          Training
I _________________             ________           I_I_                              I            I    delay
Completion           2/97         2          19     Agriculturalist
Agric. Economist
7 Joint supervision with Second Agricultural Extension Project (2679-BR)



APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1     This is the aide memoire of a mission of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
consisting of S.D. Hocombe, Senior Adviser, Mission Leader and Ms F.J. Maundrell,
Consultant Economist, which visited Brazil from February 12-28, 1997 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Third Agricultural Research Project
supported by the World Bank (BIRD 1ff). The aide memoire is written in English since the
Bank requires it to be annexed to the ICR.
2     The mission worked closely with staff who had been associated with the
implementation of BIRD III at the Brasilia headquarters of the implementing agency,
EMBRAPA. It visited the agricultural research centers for the humid tropics (CPATU) and
semi-arid zone (CPATSA) as well as the national genetic resources and biotechnology center
(CENARGEN), which together benefited from approximately 25% of project expenditures.
The rnission's program was ably organized by Dra Ana Maria Goncalves who had been
responsible for coordination of BIRD HI from April 1992 until project closure in mid-1996.
The mission would like to thank her and all others who gave it their attention and cooperation,
despite often urgent calls on their time from other duties.
3     This aide memoire has been written before the mission has had access to project files in
the World Bank. It summarizes main findings as they appear at the time of drafting, but these
should not be regarded as final. Some changes may be expected in the ICR itself
Statement and Evaluation of BIRD I Objectives
4     The project was a successor to two previous Bank projects. It sought to strengthen
EMBRAPA's and the state research agencies' capacities to generate and disseminate
technology which would contribute to sustained agricultural development in two distinct agro-
ecological regions - the "legal Amazon" and the semi arid Northeast - both of which had
received only modest support under previous Bank research loans. It had five components:
development of new and improved technology for crop, livestock and forestry production
within existing research centers in the selected regions; support to other centers providing
national backstopping research; technology transfer - including the development of new
systems and partnerships; institutional strengthening and development; and impact assessment
and special studies. Project cost was estimated at US$97.8 million including contingencies,
with a Bank loan of US$47 million. EMBRAPA was additionally to acquire vehicles and
computer equipment with Government funds to a value of US$9.1 million. The loan became
effective in April 1990 with a target completion date of June 1995.



5     The project as designed was a logical extension of previous Bank support for
EMBRAPA, seeking to further develop the capacity of the institution while focusing on
achieving a better regional balance of research programs, and improving both the dissemination
of technology and the assessment of the impact of research. The regions chosen, being both
ecologically fragile and/or foci of rural poverty, were priority targets under current Bank
strategies for country assistance. Given EMBRAPA's experience with the implementation of
past Bank - as well as IDB - projects, the project was within existing implementation capacity,
although it did focus on regions where it had been most difficult to create well-staffed and
stable research centers.
6     The project was, designed at a time when the agricultural sector was already losing
profitability under reforms to Brazil's agricultural support systems. Its focus on generation of
more efficient, sustainable technologies, with increased emphasis on their economic evaluation,
meant that the project was in principle well placed to assist the sector in responding to these
new financial challenges. However, the project was quickly overtaken by a further series of
events which led to it being implemented in significantly different circumstances from those in
which it was designed. A change in government administration shortly before loan
effectiveness resulted in further cutbacks in federal support for agriculture. Federal
government spending cuts severely curtailed the release of counterpart funding committed to
the project, greatly slowing disbursements in the early 1990s. At the same time changes in the
leadership of EMBRAPA were followed by organizational changes which included the
dissolution of the section which had substantial experience of managing Bank and other
international projects. Also, in 1990, with the extinction of the federal extension agency,
EMBRATER, EMBRAPA was charged with greater responsibilities for technology
dissemination and with taking over the administration of the Bank's Second Extension Project.
During implementation, a new research planning system was evolved. This substituted the
farmer-back-to-farmer systems used earlier - and incorporated into the design of BIRD Im -
with a consumer-back-to-consumer system intended to give greater weight in research plans to
the post-harvest chain, markets, agriculture-related industries and the like. An appraisal target
was for the project to review the national research system and develop an action plan for
restructuring and developing it. In fact, change and reform in EMBRAPA were initiated from
outside the project and, partially, even from outside EMBRAPA itself. The project adapted
successfully in that resources earmarked for institutional development were used to support
change: but it did not, as originally envisaged, instigate major changes. Finally, a review of the
government's external loan portfolio at the end of 1994 resulted in a cut of US$5 million in
Bank funding.
7     A leading project objective in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to strengthen the
State research agencies (principally in the Northeast). However, during negotiations, the
government opposed the use of project funds to support research programs in such agencies
arguing that sufficient funds were already reaching State governments for this purpose by other
means. Project support to state research agencies was therefore limited to management
studies, training and purchase of books and publications. Some state research agencies have



not enjoyed strong support from their governments over the period of the project and have
remained weak.
Achievement of Project Objectives
8     BIRD mI was generally successful in achieving its main objectives, despite the changes
in circumstances. The project achieved its amended loan disbursement target of US$42 million
and a commensurate total project expenditure of US$86.5 million (including US$9.8 million on
vehicles and computer equipment) with a one year extension, closing on June 30, 1996.
Actual project expenditures were distributed among disbursement categories very much as
planned, as the Table below illustrates.
Cateaorv                     SAR             Actual     SAR         Actual
(Base Costs)
US$ million                 % of total costs
Civil Works                 19.6            21.0        24         24
Materials and Equipment     26.7            30.8        33         36
Technical Assistance         9.1            4.8         11          6
Training                     15.0           14.2        18          16
Operating Costs              11.7           15.5        14         18
TOTAL                       82.1           86.5         100        100
Counterpart funding amounted to US$ 44.6 million compared with the overall total
contribution expected in the SAR (including vehicles and computer equipment) of US$ 59.9
million.
9     On the technical front, the project gave support to a wide range of research programs,
including those relevant to improved incomes for small farmers, more sustainable natural
resource management and the conservation and exploitation of biodiversity. New programs on
production systems, resource management and biological pest control were introduced.
Capacities for technology dissemination of all the research centers in the Amazon and the
Northeast were greatly strengthened: researchers were more exposed to farmer problems; new
technologies were promoted by field days and demonstrations as well as mass media; some
new extension partnerships were formed with NGOs, municipalities, farmer groups and the
private sector. Extensive post-graduate training was given to staff of both participating
EMBRAPA centers and state research agencies. Most have returned to appropriate jobs in
their employing institutions having enhanced not only their own professional capacity but also
having formed valuable new national or international contacts. In some cases, local universities
have been able to upgrade the level of courses they are able to offer through lecturing
arrangements with these more highly qualified researchers. Training of technical support staff



has also boosted the productive capacity of researchers. National and international
consultancies, coordinated by IICA, provided valuable support in critical technical or
institutional topics, although the smaller centers in the North were unable to take their full share
of the consultancies on offer.
10    Several changes were made to the project by agreement with the Bank during
implementation. The project's schedule of works was amended and, following the lifting of the
Brazilian embargo on imports of computer equipment in 1992, the Bank authorized the use of
loan funds in the purchase of both vehicles and computing equipment. Because of slow
disbursement and institutional changes already afoot in EMBRAPA as a whole, the Mid-Term
review scheduled for early 1992 was postponed. Instead, the project supported a workshop
which conducted an external evaluation of EMBRAPA. The Bank later intended to carry out
its own mid-term review in late 1994, but appears to have abandoned the plan. This was
presumably because by the end of 1994, US$ 5 million of the loan (under the "unallocated"
category) was canceled and most other resources were by then already committed.
11    There were a number of project implementation difficulties. Disbursement was at first
very slow: by end of 1992 (well over 2 years into the project) only 18% of the total loan had
been disbursed (27% of planned disbursement at that stage). In addition to delays in the civil
works program and in tenders for machinery and equipment, cost overruns were incurred on at
least three of the major building contracts, when the original contractors collapsed and had to
be replaced. A plan to coordinate regional research programs via an Amazon coordinator in
CPATU and a Northeast coordinator in CPATSA proved to be not well adjusted to
EMBRAPA s research management system of the time and was dropped. The EMBRAPA
Board and technical units in Brasilia, designated in the SAR as having ultimate technical control
over the research program - as for previous Bank projects - initially had difficulty in
maintaining BIRD HI objectives, to the extent that Bank supervision missions found it
necessary to warn against potential changes in the project design or redistribution of project
resources outside the Amazon and Northeast. There was some technical strengthening of the
project coordination team in 1992, but efforts still tended to focus on management of
disbursement in the different loan categories rather than on achieving technical objectives of the
project components. Work on evaluating the impact of project research programs has
generally not produced reliable results. EMBRAPA's own socio-economic staff resources
were limited and few major special studies were contracted out to consultants. Overal, the
socio-economic studies appear to have had little impact on approaches to technology
generation or implementation of other project components.
Main Factors Affecting the Project Outcome
12    Principal factors identified by the mission as adversely affecting project outcome can be
summarized as:
-   budget cuts by the Federal Government in early project years;



successive reorganizations of sections and departments charged with project
management and disbandment of experienced teams;
rigidity of EMBRAPA's internal financial control of the project in early years;
changes in both Government and Bank requirements relating to preparation and
approval of bid documents (the first of which were only finally approved in
1992);
the failure of the initially-proposed system of regional technical coordination and
lack of an alternative system fully dedicated to the oversight of project research
programs;
financial failure of building contractors leading to time and cost overruns.
13    The main factors identified as contributing to the ultimate success of the project
following its early problems were:
-   the institution by the Federal Government of a system for advancing project
counterpart funds (around the beginning of 1991);
-   the dedication of project management to identifying and resolving project
implementation problems of the participating centers from 1992 onwards;
-   the commitment of EMBRAPA management to improve project implementation
and disbursement and its strengthening of the project management team from
1993 onwards;
-   the Bark's general flexibility in addressing requirements for reallocation of funds,
including permission for loan funds to be spent on vehicles and computing
equipment;
-   the establishment of standard bid documents for civil works in mid-1994.
Project Sustainability
14    A major aim of organizational and operational changes introduced by EMBRAPA
during the project period was to make its research system more responsive to user demands for
technology and less supply-driven. The project supported these changes, as well as equipping
research units in the Amazon and Northeast and upgrading staff skllls so that they will be able
to respond better to demand in the future. They are thus better placed to compete effectively
under the grant fiunding mechanisms which EMBRAPA will introduce in the near future,
especially if also provided with some continuity of institutional support: both are envisaged
under a succeeding phase of Bank funding. For these reasons the attainments of BIRD Im are
rated as sustainable.



Bank and Borrower Performance
15    Bank performance cannot be fully assessed until the mission has reviewed relevant
Bank files. Initial impressions from the five aides memoire of supervision missions available in
Brasilia are that the Bank was generally flexible and supportive. However, there appears to
have been a gap of two years in field supervision between mid-1992 and mid-1994, apparently
due to the departure of the Task Manager who had seen the project through from preparation.
This was a critical period of change in EMBRAPA, raising the question of whether the Bank
missed opportunities at that time: for instance to review and re-focus research programs,
evaluation and studies; or to agree improved mechanisms for technical coordination.
16    The borrower, despite the restrictions on the government budget, has showed a
continued commitment to agricultural research. Overall, EMBRAPA's administration of the
project was satisfactory. During the disbursement period EMBRAPA initiated a still ongoing
program of reorganization and reform intended to adapt and equip the institution for a new
demand-responsive research approach, better matched to emerging policies on the role of the
public sector as well as to the changing needs of agricultural producers and processors.
Identified shortcomings in project administration by the Borrower mainly occurred during the
early years and were: delays in submitting audited accounts for 1990; and some difficulties in
meeting demands for engineering support to civil works in outlying centers, understandable
because of their distances from headquarters or the seat of regional engineers.
Project Outcome
17    On the basis of information at present to hand, the mission rates the overall project
outcome as satisfactory.
Borrower's Completion Report
18    EMBRAPA has prepared a final project report which documents the implementation of
the project in some detail and has proved extremely helpful to the mission. The mission has
provided the ex-project coordinator with guidelines on the preparation of a borrower's ICR
(the requirement for which was instituted after loan effectiveness of BIRD m) and has invited
EMBRAPA to prepare its own summary project assessment for attachment to the Bank's ICR.
Future Operation
19     Future operation of the centers in the Amazon and Northeast supported by the
project is expected to be based on successful competition (often in partnership with
Universities, NGOs, private companies or others outside the EMBRAPA system) for grants
under the new arrangements to be supported by the Bank under its fourth agricultural research
project. These resources are expected to be supplemented by further training, studies etc.
under the institutional development component of the same project. Given the capacity-
building nature of BIRD HI, that EMBRAPA prepares annual plans for the continuation of its



research programs and is currently negotiating with the Bank for a follow-on project, the
mission sees no need for a separate Operational Plan for continuation of BIRD m activities.
Main Lessons Learned
20    The main lessons learned from BIRD Im are that:
given determined Borrower commitment and Bank flexibility, a project
can achieve its major financial and physical objectives despite difficult
circumstances;
however, more intensive technical supervision is needed to ensure that
specific component objectives (e.g. effective project impact assessment)
are also achieved;
it is necessary, if decentralized control of research is to be effective, to
link it to decentralized control of research funds.
The project also confirms two generic lessons from Bank-financed research projects:
-the value of long-term continuity of Bank support for the establishment
and subsequent maturation of national agricultural research systems;
and
-the benefits of Bank flexibility in adapting project implementation in
response to new and well-justified initiatives for institutional change,
provided these are consistent with previously agreed development and
assistance strategies as well as general project objectives.



AFPENDIX B
Key Dates in Project Formulation and Implementation
1286
13/6/86       Initiating Project Brief as a result of review mission of BIRD II (5-21/5/86). Bank IEPS
and PID. Proposed a major review of Brazil's research policy to the end of the
century.
29/8/86       Paper on The Status of Agricultural and Forestry Research by Borlaug and Zillinsky.
1987
5-6/87        Final supervision mission of BIRD I.
30/6/87       BIRD II completed on time.
31/12187      BIRD II loan closed. Virtually completely disbursed.
1988          EMBRAPA 's First Master Plan (I Piano Diretor 1988-92) published under Presidency
of Ormuz Freitas Rivaldo. Orientation towards increasing food self-sufficiency
- particularly of low income population; developing (non-degrading)
technologies for conquest of new agricultural frontiers, especially in the
Amazon and Center West; boosting production of the Pantanal and semi-arid
tropics; and increasing EMBRAPA's own capacity for generating 'tecnologia
de ponta".
3/88          Banw Identification Mission. 3 members, 5 days. Signed Memorandum of
Understanding with EMBRAPA. At this stage N, NE and CO (incl. Pantanal)
were included.
29/4/88       Bank Executive Project Summary.
6/88          Protocolo de Intencoes meeting at CPATSA with representatives from the Bank,
SUDENE, EMBRAPA. It was agreed that CPATSA would continue to
coordinate PAPP (research on farmers' fields) and provide advice to State
research agencies. New project/EMBRAPA to concentrate on on-station
work. The initial proposal by EMBRAPA for BIRD m was being
reformulated and should be ready 30/9/88. EMBRAPA handed over
preliminary version of final evaluation report of BIRD II. CPATSA provided
methodology for Testes de Ajustes de Tecnologia.
19-29/9/88    Bank Preappraisal Mission. 5 members, 10 days. Signed Memorandum of
Understanding with EMBRAPA. Because the Government had not officially
requested the project, the mission was designated a 'technical mission". Later
called a 'review". MOU establishes that (direct) support to state research
companies should be eliminated from project objectives and establishes
conditions for arrival of Bank Appraisal Mission. Following this mission 16
Staff Working Papers and preliminary cost estimnates are produced.
5/10/88       New Constitution came into effect.
10/88         Visit of Bank Division Chief to Brazil. Discussions on effect of "Operacao Desmonte'
(provisions for decentralization of state budgets).
1982
15/1/89       Decision taken to abolish EMBRATER.
1/89          New proposals by EMBRAPA for the project (in 2 volumes) sent to Bank.
31/1/89       EMBRAPA sends note on state funding to Bank.
28/2/89       Bank discusses White Paper SAR.



7/3/89        EMBRAPA presents a Position Paper on the state research companies to the Bank.
17/3/89       Bank's Final Executive Project Summary. TOR prepared for Appraisal mission.
27/3/89       Bank Appraisal Mission. 3 members, 24 days. MOU of
20/4/89 detailing proposed project "O projeto financiara programas
especificos de pesquisa."
11/4/89       Further Protocolo de Intencoes meeting with SUDENE, EMBRAPA/SEP to discuss
interaction with PAPP. SUDENE would negotiate with the States the
conditions in which PAPP would support the strengthening of the state
research companies.
26/5/89       New President of EMBRAPA: Carlos Magno Campos da Rocha.
21/7/89       EMBRAPA reappoints Project Coordinator of BIRD II (Luciano Fernandes, SEA) as
PC of BIRD m. Regional Coordinators also appointed for North and
Northeast.
28/8/89       Negotiations start in Washington.
1/9/89        Negotiations conclude with only two significant changes: increase in deposits in local
and foreign Special Accounts and introduction of a requirement for a
Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and EMBRAPA as an
additional condition of effectiveness. Requirement for counterpart funding is
set at US$4.0 million, within an overall budget provision for the project of
US$10.0 million in 1990. Bank agrees to omit from legal agreements a
detailed listing of vehicles to be provided by EMBRAPA.
17/10/89      Bank essentially approves agreements with state research companies.
24/10/89      Bank Board Approval. Exceptionally for Brazil, and as a result of previous
Government (COFIEX) urging, a 5 year project period is agreed.
9/11/89       Final Bank version of BIRD II Project Completion Report.
m
10/1/90       Signature of Loan and Project Agreenents.
4/90          Agreement by Bank to extend the deadline for loan effectiveness to allow alteration of
the Brazilian Central Bank's Project Registration Certificate in order for civil
works to be financed out of the (local) Special Account.
3/90          New Federal President: Collor.
27/4/90       Loan Effective.
16/5/90       Contract with IHCA for recruitment/management of foreign consultants.
21/5/90       First Supervision Mission. 2 members, 5 days. Establishment of key indicators for
project.
18/5/90       New President of EMBRAPA: Murilo Xavier Flores.
2/7/90        Project Coordinator submits proposals for socio-economic studies to Bank.
18/7/90       First Deposit to Special Account.
19/9/90       Statement on EMBRAPA 's medium term strategy by its President. Over the next 5
years, EMBRAPA's program would be oriented around development of
technologies for basic farm commodities, raw materials, farming and the
environment, farm development and farm information services. EMBRAPA
was undertaking a global review of Brazil's agricultural research with a view
to formulating directives and strategy to guide EMBRAPA into the next
century.
19/11/90      Second Supervision Mission. 2 members, 12 days. Expected restructuring of
EMBRAPA to be completed by first quarter of 1991.
1221
2/4191        Changes in EMBRAPA Centers in North: UEPAEs become CPAFs, UEPAE Belem
merged with CPATU.
21/6/91       Final version of OED's Project Performance Audit Report on BIRD II with
recommendations for EMBRAPA on technology diffusion systems and
strengthening farming systems approach.



27/6/91       New Project Coordinator named: Cezar Roberto de Souza Mirandela (DOF).
817t91        Third Supervision Mission. 3 members, 18 days. Civil works bidding documents
reviewed and changes to civil works program agreed including construction of
Herbarium at CPATU.
2217191       Bank follows up supervision mission with letter inviting EMBRAPA to look for ways
to have EMBRAPA's decentralized units and the state research companies in
the project area benefit more directly from TA funds available under the
project.
2/12/91       Secretaria de Programas Especiais (SPE) created, directly under President of
EMBRAPA, to oversee international projects.
20/12/91              Widening of IICA's contract to include management of national consultants.
31/3/92       Mid-Term Review due.
4/92          Audit for 1990 received. Bank approves first bidding documents for procurement of
goods (equipment etc.).
24/4/92       Bank informed that Dr Joao Carlos Monteiro de Carvalho, Head of SPE is ex officio
PC of BIRD III but that functions would be spread amongst technical staff of
SPE.
4/5192        Fourth Supervision Mission. 2 members, 13 days. Repeats need for Regional
Coordinators. SPE assigns overall responsibility for project management to
Ana Maria Goncalves and suggests delay in tendering for equipment because
of reorganization within EMBRAPA.
5192          Preliminary version of diagnostic study on EMBRAPA's research projects.
1992          Preliminary version of EMBRAPA 's Second Master Plan (11 Plano Diretor) proposing
new research planning system - Sistema EMBRAPA de Planejamento (SEP) -
within a framework of 16 priority research domains.
10/6192       Bank approves standard LCB documents for small works.
22/6/92       Workshop on Second Master Plan for EMBRAPA with panel of external advisers,
financed by the project.
mid 92        Change of Bank Division Chief.
8/92          Change of Task Manager to Recife Office.
29/9/92       Posts of Regional Coordinators reinstated and incumbents named in CPATU and
CPATSA.
10/92         Withdrawal by Government of market restrictions on computers/vehicles.
17112/92      Clearance by Bank of award of first ICB (lab equipment and machinery), following
delay by Washington.
1X3
28/4/93       First clearance of major civil works contract by Bank. (CENARGEN). Awarded to
lowest bidder at approx. US$1.6 million. Rapidly followed (18/5193) by
approval of 7 more contracts to a total of approx. US$1.9m
3/2/93        Agreement by Bank to amend loan agreement to include US$4.0 million financing for
computers and vehicles.
3/93          SPE disbanded. Creation of DEC.
7/5/93        Agreement by Government for computers/vehicles to be purchased through BIRD m
loan.
11/8/93       EMBRAPA inquires of the Bank what it is going to do about the Mid-Term Review.
29/9193       EMBRAPA submits a revised schedule of civil works, which is promptly approved by
the Bank.
28/12/93      Award of ICB for computers approved by the Bank approx. one month after opening of
bids.



12u1          EMBRAPA 's research programsfor 1994 planned under new planning system - SEP.
9/3/94        Intemal Bank proposal for Pilot Plan presented to Division Chief with suggestion tht it
be floated in Mid-term Review intended for September/October 1994.
301S194        fth Supervision Mission. 2 members, 11 days. EMBRAPA agreed to _ndtake a
review, with the Bank, of the project scope to adjust it to the new SNPA.
22/6/94       Revised standard bidding documents (to comply with changes in federal law) are
approved by the Bank for LCBs and ICBs.
1/7/94        New currency/Plano Real introduced.
12/7/94       EMBRAPA notifies the Bank that the building contracts at CENARGEN and the
Herbarium at CPATU have been suspended because of failure of contractors
with US$385,000 and US$149,000 having been paid at that time. Tenders are
being repeated.
8/94          Change of Bank Division Chief.
10/94         EMBRAPA presents proposal for competitive grants fund to Task Manager (LAlER)
during his familiarization mission as 'member of new management team for
three projects" including BIRD m.
17/11/94      Bank's clearance of replacement contract for CENARGEN (R$2.87 million)
20/12/94             Bank clearance of (new) contract for CNPAT buildings (R$4.5 million fixed
sum). Rival bidder pursues protest in court.
21/12/94      Government's general portfolio review results in cut of US$5.0 million in loan amount.
Approved by Bank in loan amendment 1111/95. Amortization amounts
amended.
6/1/95        Extension of IICA contract to 30/6/95.
6/2/95        Sixth Supevision Mission. 2 members, 5 days. Agreed to delay study to evaluate the
impact of project-financed research until preparation of the project's
completion report.
15/3/95       Ministry of Agriculture commences loan repayment.
16/5/95       New President of EMBRAPA: Dr Alberto Portugal.
6/6/95        Loan extended to 30/6/96.
mid 95        Change of Bank Division Chief.
2618/95       Further extension of IICA contract, also including management of training program (in
order to speed disbursement) and reduction of management fee from 10% to
8%.
16/7/96       Extension of IICA contract to 30/12/96.
10/12/96      Final Bank disbursement.
10/12/96      Extension of IICA contract to 30/6/97.
7/2/97        Loan closed.



Appendix C
Supplementary Project Data



Table 14: Cost Breakdown by Category and Component
Technology  Research   Technology        International Project Impact      TOTAL          Percentage
Category             Generation   Support    Transfer         Development                                Actual          SAR
(US$ million)
Civil Works                  13.59       6.85          0.30              0.10          0.14          20.97        24%         24%
Machinery/Other Goods        18.35       9.10          0.15              3.40          0.01          31.03        36%         33%
Machinery & equipment        2.50       0.36          0.01                                           2.86
Furniture and tools          7.31       6.40          0.07             0.17           0.00          13.95
Livestock                    0.24       0.12          0.00                                           0.37
Books and jounals            1.91       1.33                           0.79                          4.02
Vehicles                     3.57       0.53          0.03             0.02                          4.15
Computing equipment          2.82       0.36          0.05             2.42           0.00           5.66
Technical Assistance          1.40       1.73          0.20              1.07          0.38           4.77         6%         11%
Training                      7.27       3.19          0.50             3.23           0.04          14.24        16%         18%
Operating Costs              10.20       4.43          0.41             0.46           0.04          15.54        18%         14%
TOTAL                      50.81       25.29         1.56              8.27          0.60          86.55       100%        100%
Actual (%)                    59         29             2                10             1             100
SAR (%/e)                     55         32            4                 5              4            100



Table 15: Variations in Project Expenditures by Center and Region
(US$ 000)
Civl Works      Goods   Consutandes    Training    Op. costs              TOTAL
North                       -1096        -105           -1046        -942         735             -2454
CPATIJ                        587        -863            -384        -928          163             -1425
CPAA                         -879        -218            -143        -140         225             -1155
CPAF-AC                       298         633            -185         185           35              966
CPAF-AP                       -48         -31            -167          17         214                -15
CPAF-RO                        70         199            -157         -71          -50                -9
CPAF-RR                     -1124         175             -10          -5          148              -816
Northeast                    1127        1970            -949        -386        1789              3551
CPATSA                       -697          76            -235        -208          193             -871
CPAMN                        -600          91             -75          15         283              -286
CNPA                         -712         264              58         152          155              -83
CNPC                          203         807            -270         130         206              1076
CNPAT                        3350         150               2        -146         599              3955
CNPATC                       -355        -126            -230        -288          -50             -1049
CNPMF                          90         220            -160         -37          111              224
CNPGL                        -152         488             -39          -4         292               585
Other                        1311       2444            -2335         590        1305              3315
CENARGEN                     1859         218               0         633         529              3239
CTAA                         -467          35             107         141         223                39
CNPMA                         515        -928             -78        -509          129             -871
CNPAB                          93         48             -406        -239           56             -544
CNPS                        -1204        -233            -200         249          -31             -1419
CNPF                          -24         161              48          35           82              302
SEDE                          240       3317             -979       2845          372              5795
SPI                           299         -78            -827       -2565          -55             -3226
TOTAL                        1342        4309           -4330        -738        3829              4412
v Base costs are used for comparison given that:
(a) following the US$5 million cut in loan amount in December 1994, base costs give a closer basis for comparison of
SAR values with actuals (total SAR base costs: US$82.1 million; total actual costs: US$86.5 million)
(b) no detailed breakdown of total costs including contingencies is provided in the SAR



Table 16: Project Expenditures per Researcher by Center
Staff             Expenditure on Civil Works    Expenditure on Goods     Total Expenditure
Researchers   TOTAL         USS 000   US$/Res         US$ 000   US$/Res        US$ 000   US$SRes
CPAA a)                         56        300         1,009     18,018           1,496    26,714           4,200     75,000
CPAF-AC                         30        124           489     16,300           1,129    37,633           2,400     80,000
CPAF-AP                         16        73            308     19,250            636    39,750            1,809    113,063
CPAF-RO                         30        161           648    21,600             844    28,133            2,488     82,933
CPAF-RR                         16         83           501    31,313            1,052    65,750           2,323    145,188
CPATU b)                       136        578         2,649     19,478           2,121    15,596           7,836      57,618
Subtotal North                 284      1,3191        5,604     19,732           7,278    25,627          21,056      74,141
CNPA                            39       204            588     15,077           1,166    29,897           3,438      88,154
CNPC                            27        148           665    24,630            1,024    37,926           4,142    153,407
CNPCa/CNPAT                     54        161         4,905     90,833           1,181    21,870           7,740    143,333
CNPCo/CPATC                     37        194           390     10,541           1,165    31,486           2,360     63,784
CNPGL d)                        64       384            183      2,859            680     10,625           2,743     42,859
CNPMN                           59       237            431      7,305           1,144    19,390           3,052     51,729
CPAMN c)                        42       293            447     10,643           1,789    42,595           4,353    103,643
CPATSA                          79       409            357      4,519           1,301    16,468           3,227     40,848
Subtotal NE                    401      2,030         7,966     19,865           9,450    23,566          31,055      77,444
CENARGEN                       114       275          3,894     34,158           3,364    29,509          10,314      90,474
CNPBS/CNPAB                     32        139           243      7,594            821    25,656            1,780     55,625
CNPDA/CNPMA                     60        141         1,580    26,333            1,477    24,617           5,079     84,650
SNLCS/CNPS                      58        132           318      5,483            776     13,379           2,016     34,759
CTAA                            48        138          .785    16,354            1,987    41,396           4,598     95,792
Subtotal Other                 312       825          6,820    21,859            8,425    27,003          23,787     76,240
TOTAL                          997      4,174        20,390    20,451           25,153    25,229          75,898      76,126
a) Includes ex-UEPAE para
b) Includes ex-UEPAE Amazonas
c) Includes ex-CNPAI (now UEP)
d) Total Staff. The two out-stations in the NE were closed in mid-1990s.



Table 17: Changes in Staff in EMBRAPA Centers (1989-1996) and Training
Trnig
1996                                                  Difference 1996-1989                 National        Overseas
| PhD    MSc   BSc  Researchers  Other   TOTAL            PhD    MSc    BSc  Researchers TOTAL             PhD   MSc  PhD/PD   MSc
CPAA a)            7      39      10        56        244       300         0        1      -8        -7         -33          5     16       1        1
CPAF-AC             2      19      9        30         94       124         -6      9       8         11         15           1      4       2        1
CPAF-AP             1      7      8         16         57        73          1      2      -10        -7         14           1      4       1        2
CPAF-RO             3     20      7         30         131      161         3       4       0          7         105          1      8       1        2
CPAF-RR             0      14      2        16         67       83          0       -3      -9        -12       -59           1      3
CPATU b)           36     85      15        136        442      578         25      13     -22        16         -41          5      11      8        1
Subtotal North     49    184      51        284       1035      1319        23      26     -41         8          1          14    46        13       7
CNPA               13     23       3        39         165      204          6      -1      -6        -1         29           2      6       6        1
CNPC                9      14      4        27         121      148          5      -1      -2         2          6           1      3       9        3
CNPCa/CNPAT        17     36       1        54         107      161         10      19      -1        28         113          2              1
CNPCo/CPATC         8     28       1        37         157      194          6       4      -1         9         46           2      1       2
CNPGLd)            38     24       2        64         320      384         10      -11     -6        -7         -24                 3       6
CNPMF              17     40       2        59         178      237         17      -8      -6         3         -20          4      2       5
CPAMNIc)            8     31       3        42         251      293          2      -6      -7        -11        28           5      11      7
CPATSA             14     59      6         79         330      409          4      19      4         27         17          11    12        3
Subtotal NE        124    255     22        401       1629      2030        60      iS     -25        50         195         27    38        39       4
CENARGEN           55     49      10        114        161      275         39      26      -1        64         145          2      1       3        3
CNPBS/CNPAB        22      7       3        32         107      139         12      0       2         14         73           6              1
CNPF               n/a    n/a    n/a        n/a        n/a      n/a         n/a    n/a      n/a       n/a        n/a          1              2        1
CNPDA/CNPMA    37         22       1        60         81       141         21      -7      -2        12         66           1              8
SNLCS/CNPS         12     37      9         58         74       132          0      -7      -3       -10        -46                  8       1        1
CTAA               16     29       3        48         90       138          4      11      -10        5         43           4      1       5
SEDE               n/a    n/a    n/a        n/a        n/a      n/a         n/a    n/a    n/a         n/a        n/a          3      8       9        1
0       0      0          0          0
Subtotal Other     142    144     26        312        513      825         76      23      -14       85         281         17    18        29       6
TOTAL             315    583      99        997       3177      4174        159     64      -80       143        477   ,     58    102       81      17
State Aeencies     9      18      17        1
a)   Includes ex- UEPAE Para
b)   Includes ex- UEPAE Amazonas
c)   Includes ex- CNPAI (now UEP)
d)   Total staff. The two out-tations in the NE were closed in mid 1990s. HQ in MG.



Table 18: Consultancies
TOTAL
National Consultants        International Consultants    Actual      SAR
Number    Months              Number       Months                  Months
CPAA                    5           7                  2            3                 10         22
CPAFs                   2           6                  2            1                 7         102
CPATU                   17          27                 13          23                 50         59
Subtotal  North         24          40                 17          27                 67        183
CNPA                     1           1                 2           25                 26         16
CNPC                     1          4                  2           17                 21         37
CNPCa                   7           51                                                51         22
CNPCo                                                  2            3                 3          27
CNPGL                                                  6           14                 14         17
CNPMF                   5           23                 7            3                 26         25
CPAMN                   4           22                 2            7                 29         36
CPATSA                  2           4                  14          14                 18         36
Subtotal Northeast      20         10S                 35          83                188        216
CENARGE                 3           16                 45          40                 56         58
N
CNPBS                    1          8                  15          15                 23         86
CNPF                     1          12                 3           0.5               12.5        0
CNPMA                    9          89                 22          27                116         97
CNPS                    2           11                 2           12                 23         35
CTAA                     5          29                 12          41                 70         44
SEDE                    33          132                24          70                202        215
SPI                     3          13.5                                              13.5
Subtotal  Other         57         310.5              123         205.5              516        535
TOTAL                   101        455.5              175         315.5              771        934
of which:
long term (12 months +)             98                             99
medium term (3-<12 months)         300                             91
short term (<3 months)             57.5                           125.5
SAR                                574                            360
TOTAL
of which:
long term                           60                             24



Appendix D
Borrower's Comments
(transcript from Electronic Mail from EMBRAPA to Ms. Constance Bernard dated
May 21, 1997)
Evaluation Summary
Although we agree that project funding may not be directly linked to individual
research projects they could certainly be linked to programs. Programs supported were
those described in the SAR. We note that similar statements, i.e., lack of linkage between
funding and projects, achievements, etc., are made throughout the documents and could,
perhaps, be rephrased.
We disagree with the statement that cooperation with state agencies was
disappointing. Training was the main activity to financed by the project for the states and
this was implemented satisfactorily. Therefore, there seems to be little reason for
disappointments.
Part I
Via strengthened research capabilities financed by the loan the project led to the
development of improved technologies which were and are being disseminated and can be
assessed directly. We disagree with the statement that they cannot be assessed. The
question here is perhaps the lack of time - and in some cases technical capacity - regular
ICR missions have to make the necessary evaluations/assessments.
It seems to be incorrect to mention that research objectives simply coincided with
the technical areas listed in the SAR. For research units in northern Brazil, most of the
research lines and programs implemented were those previously negotiated with the World
Bank as priorities which were, therefore implemented. Again, to state that achievements
can be loosely attributed to the project does not seem to reflect the reality, in our opinion.
EMBRAPA's report on project implementation details achievements resulting from
project implementation.
The statements on concentration of expenditure should be reviewed. As an
example, according to our figures (Annex 10 and table 4) it is not correct to state that
40% of expenditure on computing equipment was concentrated at headquarters. It was, in
fact, 16.7%.
On the technical control of the project we would like to stress that EMBRAPA
uses system-wide procedures for the control of research projects. Since this, as well as
other past and future loans, represent an important and significant - but small - fraction of
the total budget, technical control procedures are adopted for all research projects,
independent of the financier. The priority setting and planning system established in 1993



which superseded the one in place at appraisal greatly improved EMBRAPA's technical
assessment, monitoring and control of research projects.
Key Lessons Learned
We disagree that project components which are included primarily to meet Bank
requirements should be closely supervised, as stated. We think they should simply not be
included! All components, major and minor, were well understood by the Borrower and
did receive priority in their implementation. Some, however, were more difficult to
implement than others due to several factors, but they were and should not be considered
neglected components. Their results may not be as satisfactory as the ones obtained in the
implementation of other components. It seems naive to suggest that close supervision of
consultants is the key point to be addressed when overcoming limited effectiveness during
implementation of certain components; much more complex situations need different
approaches to problem solving.
The comment on cost/benefit analyses of research outputs (here and in the main
text) differs from national as well as, I understand, some of the international thinking on
the topic as well - it is too simplistic. Internal discussion in Brazil, international seminars
and World Bank discussions (I understand at ESDAR and other sites) indicate that
analyses of research outputs are extremely complex due to several factors including
adoption lag, spill overs, etc. Therefore, improved project costing and indicators, assessed
just after project completion do not seem to be key elements which preclude meaningful
analyses.
Part II: Statistical Tables, Table 1 Summary of Assessments
Considering the objectives states in the SAR and the results obtained, we do not
agree that environmefltal objectives and private sector development should be rated as
negligible. Several results which positively impact on the environment were attained as
detailed in our report.
Finally, reading the document as a whole and comparing to technology generation
projects financed by the World Bank here and elsewhere we have the impression that
overall performance is perhaps a bit more than satisfactory. We, as Borrowers, are
certainly proud of our achievements in this project and would certainly like to share this
pride - and all outcomes - with the Bank.






IMAGING
Report No.:          16776
Type:     ICR



