Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7991-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 11, 1989
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This documeat has a restricted distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offielit duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



CURENCY EQUI SALENS
(As of April 20, 1989)
Currency Unit                 -  New Brazilian Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1 00                           NCz$l.OO 11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)              -  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                =  10,000 ml - 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kml)      =  100 hectares - 0.386 sq. miles
1 cubic meter (m3)            =  1.31 cubic yards or 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)               -  2.2 pounds
1 ton                         -  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil          m  January 1 to December 31
3MBRAPA (Executing Agency)    =  January 1 to December 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of negotiations (August 1989) was US$1.00 = NCz$2.i0



FOR OMFFCL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRO/NYMS
CCR              CoordenaSao de Orgamento e Captafat de Recursos
(Coordinating Unit for the Budget and Sources of Funds
CDO              Coordenagao de Desenvolvimento Organizacional
(Coordinating Unit for Organizational Development
CEA              Coordenadoria de Engenharia e Arquitetura
(Coordinating Unit for Engineering and Architecture)
CENARGEN         Centro Nacional de Recursos Gendticos e Biotecnologia
(National Research Center for Genetic Resources and
Biotechnology)
CNPA             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
(National Center for Research on Cotton)
CNPAI            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agricultura Irrigada
(National Center for Irrigation and Drainage Research)
CNPBS            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Biologia do Solo
(formerly: UAPNPBS)
(National Center for Soil Biology Research)
CNPC             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
(National Center for Research on Goats)
CNPCa            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Cajd
(National Center for Research on Cashew Nut)
CNPCo            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Coco
(National Center for Coconut Research)
CNPDA            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Defesa da Agricultura
(National Center for Plant Protection and Environmental
Researzh)
CNPF             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Florestas
(National Center for Forestry Research)
CNPGL            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Leite
(National Center for Research on Dairy Cattle)
CNPHF            Centro NacionLal de Pesquisa de Mandioca e Fruticultura
(National Center for Research on Cassava and Fruit
Crops)
CNPSD            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Seringueira e Dende
(now: CPAA)
(National Center for Research on Rubber and Oil Palm)
CPAA             Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal da Amazonia
(Research Center for Agroforestry in the Amazon)
This document has a #sticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the prfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -.
Glossary of Ac.:o'nyms (Cont'd)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecutria do Tr6pico Semi-Arido
(Research Center for Agriculture in the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
CPATU            Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tr6pico tmido
(Research Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics)
CPI              CoordenagIo de Projetos Internacionais
(formerly: part of CCR)
(Coordinating Unit for Internationally-funded Projects)
CTAA             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Tecnologia Agroindustrial
de Alimeatos
(National Research Center for Agro-Industry and Food
Technology)
DOC              Departamento de Or,camento e Captaglo de Recursos
(Budget Department)
DPL              Departamento de Planejamento
(Planning Department)
DTC              Departamento Tdcnico Cientifico
(Department of Science and Technology)
DTT              Departamento de TransferOncia de Tecnologia
(Department for the Transfer of Technology)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuiria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation)
EMBRATER         Empresa Brasileira de AssistOncia T4cnica e Extensgo
Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Corporation)
GPR              Gabinete do Presidente
(President's Office, EHBRAPA)
IBDF             Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Institute of Forestry Develorment)
IBAMA            Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos
Naturais Renovais
(National Institute for the Environment and Renewable
Resources)
INCRA            Instituto Facional de Coloniza9fto Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform)
INPA             Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa da AmazOnia
(National Institute of Research for Amazonia)
PAPP/NRDP        Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor



- iii 
Glossary of Accronyms (Cont'd)
PAT              Piano Anual de Trabalho
(Annual Operational Plan)
PRONAPA          Programa Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(National Agricultural Research Ptogram)
SCPA             Sistema Cooperativo de Pesquisa Agropecutria
(Cooperative Agricultural Research System)
SEP              Secretaria de Planejamento (now: )PL)
(Planning Secretariat)
SNLCS            Servigo Nacional de Levantamento e Conserva9Ao de Solos
(Service for Soil Analysis, Mapping and Soil
Conservation Studies)
SPSB             Servigo de Produgao do Sementes 3asicas
(Brazilian Service for the Production of Basic Seeds)
SUDAM            Superintendincia do Desenvolvimento da AmazOnia
(Superintendence for the Development of Amazonia)
SUDENE           SuperintendAncia do Desenvolvimtnto do Nordpste
(Superintendence for the Development of the Northeast)
UAPNPBS          Unidade de Apoio ao Programa Nacional de Pesquisa de
Biologia do Solo (now: CNPBS)
(Support Unit for the National Research Program on Soil
Biology)
UEPAE            Unidade de ExecuqAo de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
(Unit for Research at the State Level)



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ................................................    i
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...... .............. .........*            1
II.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ...... .................                      4
Agriculture in the Economy       .........................    4
Agricultural Development Policy                . . .    4
Agricultural Research . ....................................         5
The Northeast and Amazon Regions .....     ......................    7
Past Bank Lending for the Agriculture Sector       .................    8
III.  THE PROJECT .................                      .
Rationale for tank Involvement and Origin ....................    9
objectives .......................................... O*..............   10
Project Area ............O. ...................................   10
Sumary Description ..........................................  10
Detailed Description             .       .................  12
(i)   Technology Generation ............................  12
(ii)   Research Support Programs ........................  13
(iii)   Technology Transfer and Dissemination ....     ........  16
(iv)   Institutional Development ........................  16
(v)   Project Impact Assessment and Special Studies ....   17
Project Organization and Implementation ...................   ...  18
Overall Organization .....................................  18
Project Planning and Reporting ...........................  19
Contractual Arrangements .................................  20
Accounts and Audits ........      ..............................   20
Project Costs ................................................   21
Financing Plan ......................... 0. ...............  ............. O*.....   21
Procurement ................... .......               ..........   22
Disbursements    . .... .........................  ......  23
Project Benefits and Justification ................tfiat .....i....  25
Economic Benefits ....................................   25
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery      ..........................   25
Environmental Impact ....................................   25
Project Risks ........................................   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Brazil from March 27 to April 20, 1989. The mission was
composed of Messrs. D.H. van der Sluijs (mission leader); R. Caminha
(Agriculturalist, Consultant) and R. Etheredge (Architect, Consultant).



v 
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................  26
ANNEXES
1.    -   Chart 1:  EMBRAPA Organizational Chart ....... rt..      ........  29
2.    Tables
-   Table 1:  EHBRAPA Staff by Category and by Location            32
-   Table 2:  EMBRAPA Staff Seconded to Other Agencies             33
-   Table 3:  EMBRAPA: Sources and Application of Funds,
1978-1989 ........ ........................          34
-   Table 4t  Distribution of Research Programs by Project
Region and Implementing Research Unit                35
-   Table 5:  Distribution of Research Support Programs by
Research Unit .3. ... .                 .... . ....  37
-   Table 6:  Budgets for State Research Companies, 1988-1989g   38
-   Table 7:  Research Programs and Staffing at Research
Stations participating in the Project .39
3.    Project Components by Year. ......... ......... . ..41
4.    Phased Project Cost Sunuary by Expenditure Categorys
(a) by Year                     . *   ..            . ..     42
(b) by Component and by Region           .       . .43
5.    Schedule of Proposed Civil Works ................         . .............  44
6     Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements ...............           52
7.    Documents Available in the Project File .................   53
MAPS
IBRD No. 21641 BRAZIL - Third Agricultural Research Project
Location of Research Stations
IBRD NO. 21642 BRAZIL - Third Agricultural Research Project
Agro-Ecological Regions



BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. LOAN AID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing Agency:  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecutria (EMBRAPA:.
Amount:            US$47.0 million equivalent.
Termst             Repayable in 15 years. including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:     The project focuses mainly on the Northeast and Legal
Amazon regions of Brazil. Together these regions cover
about 752 of the total national territory, and their
populations represent over 401 of the national
population. The target population is represented by
medium and smallho.der farmers and livestock producers
and their families, whose combined total in the project
area amounts ta more than half of the country's rural.
population, or some 18 million people.
Proiect
Obiectives and
Description:        The proposed project would strengthen EMBRAPA's and
state research agencies' capacities to generate and
disseminate technology which would contribute to
sustained agricultural development in two distinct agro-
ecological regions, the 'legal Amazon' and the semi-arid
Northeast. The project would provide support to fifteen
comodity-oriented (e.g., cassava, beans, rice, fodder
crops, small ruminants, and perennial crops such as
Brazil nut, black pepper, oilpalm, rubber, tropical
fruits and forestry) and five service-oriented
(biotechnology; agro-industrial and food technology;
soils; irrigation and drainage; and environmental
protection) research programs.
The five project components are: (i) technology
generation; (ii) research support programs;
(iii) technology transfer; (iv) institutional
development; and (v) project impact assessment and
special studies. The project would provide fors
(a) investment costs for the above research programs,
including civil works, laboratory, experiment station
and farm equipment and supplies; (b) technical
assistance and staff training; and (c) incremental
operating costs. The research programs would be
executed at three regional research centers (CPAs);
thirteen special services and national commodity
research centers (CNPs); six state-based EMBRAPA units
(UEPAEs); and nine state-owned research agencies, under



-2-
the coordination of EMBRAPA. Institutional
strengthening would aim at consolidating procedures for
research planning and monitoring by and within the
various units and institutions belonging to the national
cooperati7e agricultural research system.
Project Risks:     Optimum returns to research depend upon the degres of
coordination between research and extension at the state
and field level and the feed-back received from farmers.
The proposed project would strengthen the technology
diffusion process and the linkages between research,
extension and the farmers. Research results can also be
nullified by unfavorable policy decisions affecting
returns to farming. However, other Bank-supported
lending operations in the sector, ranging from policy-
based sector lending to regional rural development
(Northeast and Northwest Development Programs) and
operations in the irrigation subsector, are designed as
parts of a coherent strategy; these operations support
and complement each other and thereby, reduce this type
of risk. Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding could represent a major risk.  Tne support which
agricultural research enjoys at the federal and state
level, together with a sound annual planning and
budgeting process, should help to mitigate this risk.



-3-
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND PUFICING
Estimated Costs                                     Local   F_'L0eipn    Total
--   (US$ million)-----
A.  Technology Generation
- Amazon Region                                 12.4        9.6      22.0
- Northeast Region                              11.1       11.5      22.6
- Other                                          0.5        0.5       0.9
Subtotal                                        23.9       21.6      45.5
B.  Research Support                                 12.5       14.0     26.5
C.  Technology Transfer
- Amazon Region                                  1.0        0.5       1.5
- Northeast Region                               0.9        0.5       1.4
- Other                                           0.3       0.1       0.4
Subtotal                                         2.2        1.1       3.3
D. Project Impact Assessment and
Special Studies                                1.9        1.2       3.1
E.  Institutional Develomnent                         1.9        1.7      3.6
Total Baseline Costs                                 42.4      39.7      82.1
Physical Contingencies                            2.0       1.3       3.3
Price Contingencies                               6.5       5.9      12.4
Total Proiect Costs                                  50.9      46.9      97.81
Financing Plan
Government                                     50.8         -        S0.8
IBRD                                              -        47.0      47.0
Total                                        50.8        47.0      97.8
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         19902   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
----------------…U$ million)---------------
Annual          5.3     5.7      12.9    13.0      7.4     2.7
Cumulative      5.3     11.0    23.9    36.9    44.3    47.0
MaPss               IBRD 21641 and 21642
1/ Includes US$5.1 million of local taxes.
2/ Includes initial deposit of US$4.0 million into the Special Accounts.



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in the Econ-mv
2.01     Throughout the postwar period, until the 1980s, the economy grew
at a high average annual rate of 7.1X. The agricultural sector also
performed well, achieving an average annual growth rate of about 4.4Z over
the same pe-iod.  However, the outputs of both the industrial and service
sectors increased at much faster rates--8.52 and 7.0, respectively. As a
result, agriculture's share in GDP declined from about 25Z in 1950 to 1OZ
in 1980.
2.02     Agricultural production growth prior to 1980 was led by the growth
of non-traditional. exports (mainly soybeans and citrus).  Production
increases came almost entirelv from new land expansion as opposed to
increases in yields.  Production was particularly dynamic in the expanding
frontier states of the Center-West (Goias and Mato Grosso do Sul) and parts
of Minas Gerais.
2.03     In the early 1980s, toe economy slowed down, reflecting declines
in industrial production and stagnation in agriculture. In addition, the
expansion of the agriculLural frontier came to a virtual halt, with the
exception of areas in the North. In the last couple of years, agricultural
growth has resumed. However, the ,;ources of growth appear to be changing.
With the recent introduction of new varieties, made possible by
technological advances in agricultural research, yields on traditional
export crops (cotton, tobacco and coffee) and many food crcns (rice, maize
and wheat) have ihcreased significantly. During the 19808, very little
change occurred in the overall structure of output. By 1987, agriculture
still accounted for about 10 of GDP. Its share in the labor force and
total exports were 25Z and 432, respectively.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.04     Government policies have had a major impact on the performance of
the agricultural sector. Probably the most important action in this regard
was Brazil's decision in the postwar era to embark on an import-
substitution, industrializaticn strategy. This strategy has been pursued
through a variety of measures, including an overvalued currency,
restrictive trade policies, and from time to time, outright bans and quotas
on agricultural exports. The effect has been to implicitly tax
agriculture. Partially to compensate for this, subsidized rural credit was
introduced, but this only created further distortions and benefitted mainly
the large producers. Recently the Governmenu has moved to change some of
these policies. The Bank has supported thess reforms under the Credit and
Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR'.  With respect to rural credit, the
Government is now moving in the direction of reducing the availability of
official (subsidized" credit and relying on private finance at market
interest rates. A recent Bank-supported agricultural credit operation, the
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR), is aimed at assisting the
Government to achieve this objective.



-5-
2.05     While the Governmer.t policy agenda during the 19809 has been
dominated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, farmers, faced with the
problem of increasing production costs and falling commodity prices, have
begun to seek more cost-effective technologies and to intensify the use of
existing farm land and rural infrastructure. This is already evident in
the country's major agricultural areas in the South and Southeast. There
is growing interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental
protection, livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage
and more widespread application of the results of agricultural research.
Moreover, recent evidence indicates that the supply of unclaimed
agricultural land with economic potential is rapidly diminishing. This
fact, combined with the Government's recent initiatives to withdraw part of
the various fiscal incentives that have, to an important extent, fueled
t'.lis expansion, suggest that the growth of the land frontier may be coming
to a close. Agricultural growth in the future is expected to come
increasingly from more land-intensive production methods.
Agricultural Research
2.06     Background.  EMBRAPA was created in late 1972 as a public sector
corporation attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, but with a large
degree of financial and administrative autonomy. Its mandate is to:
(a) plan and budget for research programs reflecting national and sectoral
policies and priorities; (b) execute agricultural research programs leading
to the generation of new technology; (c) monitor and provide technical
coordination of decentralized research programs and activities involving
other federal and state-level agencies and universities; and (d) maintain a
close working relationship with EMBRATER, the Brazilian agricultural
extension agency. Based on the experience of the last 15 years, EMBRAPA
cur=ently sees three major priorities for the national research systems
(i) the development of improved resource conservation and management
practices at the farm level based on improved knowledge of the nature and
distribution of productive resources, particularly those in the semi-arid
Northeast, the Amazon and the Pantanal regions; (ii) the strengthening of
state-based agricultural research agencies, which are responsible for
adaptive research at the farm level; and (iii) an improved flow of
information between research, extension and the farming community.
2.07     Organization.  EMBRAPA's headquarters are in Brasilia.  The
corporation is headed by a President assisted by three Executive Directors.
The Board of Directors is assisted, in turn, by three support units (Legal,
Internal Auditing, and Public Relations) and, since its recent (July 1989)
reorganization, by ten departments (Annex 1). The overall structure of
EMBRAPA which has evolved over the past 15 years with support from the Bank
(paras. 2.17 and 2.18) has proven itself to be sound and effective.
However, there now is a continuous need for EMBRAPA to critically assess
its future role and that of the other parts of the national research
system, and determine how each of these may best serve the farming
community during the next decade.
2.08     EMBRAPA is the coordinating agency for the country's coonerative
agricultural research system (SCPA) wh4ch is responsible for the execution
of the national agricultural research program (PRONAPA). Besides EMBRAPA,
the cooperative'system comprisess (i) state-level research companies and
institutionst (ii) universities; (iii) the private sector; and (iv) some



forty research institutes throughout the world with whom EMBRAPA entertains
technical cooperation agreements. Each year, meetings are held to discuss
and agree on the next year's research priorities and programs. These
annual research planning and review meetings are coordinated by EMBRAPA and
*          are attended by researchers from public and private research organizations,
private farmers and representatives from cooperatives, agricultural credit,
extension and regional development agencies.
2.09     EMBRAPA executes its own research program through a national
network of research stations which comprises six regional centers, twenty-
one national centers for commodity research (CNP), and eight state-level
research centers (UEPA.).  In addition, there are fourteen semi-autonomous
and three fully autonomous state-owned research companies. The regional
research centers concentrate on and coordinate research on specific
problems of the major agro-ecological regions in which they are located
(the regional Research Center for the Humid Tropics - CPATU; the Amazon -
CPAA3 , the Semi-Arid Tropics - CPATSA; the Pantanal - CPAP; ths Cerrados -
CPAC; and the Temperate Lowlands - CPATB) (Map IBRD 21641). At the
commodity research centers, multidisciplinary teams work on priority
programs identified in the PRONAPA (para 2.08) related to agronomic
problems and production systems for each specific commodity.  The state-
level research stations, either managed by EMBRAPA or by state-owned
companies, are responsible for taking the findings and technological
components generated by the regional and national centers and incorporating
these into adaptive research programs at the local level. Finally, in
support of all of these research programs, EMBRAPA also operates the
following special service centers: the Center for Genetic Resources and
Biotechnology (CENARGEN); the Service for So±l Surveys and Soil
Conservation (SNLCS); the Basic Seeds Production Service (SPSB); the
National Research Center for Agro-Industry and Food Technology (CTAA); the
National Center for Plant Protection and Environmental Research (CNPDA);
the Nat. anal Center for Irrigation and Drainage Research (CNPAI), and the
National Center for Soil Biology Research (CNPBS).
2.10     Staff.  As of April 1989, EMBRAPA had a total of about 8,800
employees. Of these, about 22? were higher level staff, 50? were research
assistants, and 251 were administrative staff. Seven percent of all staff
were assigned to EMBRAPA headquarters at Brasilia, and the remainder were
distributed over the regions as follows: 15Z in the North, 16? in the
Northeast, 22Z in the Center-West, 16Z in the South, and 17Z in the
Southeast. Six percent of EMBRAPA staff worked within state research
companies or other agencies (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2). The position of
Technical Director in the state research companies is always filled by an
EMBRAPA researcher.
2.11     Funding.  The Government's commitment t.o developing the
agriculture and livestock sector and its recognition of the key role played
by agricultural research are illustrated by the investments made in
research since the establishment of EMBRAPA.  EMBRAPA's first year (1974)
budget (in 1986 constant dollar equivalent terms) amounted to about US$25
million. Funding increased steadily to about US$300.6 million by 1980 and
3/ This regional center was created in July 1989 through the fusion of the
former national research center for rubber and oil palm (CNPSD) and the
state-level research unit (UERAE) at Manaus.



-7-
an estimated US$324 million for 1989 (in constant 1986 dollars).
Throughout these years, the Government has sought and obtained external
funding, including two Bank loans (Loan 1249-BR of US$40 million and Loan
2016-BR of US$60 million) and two loans by the Inter-American Development
Bank (for US$66.4 million and US$70.0 million, respectively). However,
EMBRAPA's major source of funds is the Federal Government budget and
several regional development programs. In oxder to support and strengthen
the state-based research companies, EMBRAPA has in the past transferred
between 52 and 8Z of its resources (staff and funds) to the state
enterprises (Annex 2, Table 3).
2.12     Diffusion of Research Results.  Producers in the better endowed
regions of the South, where farming is less risky than in the Northeast,
often establish their own contact with research and extension. Hot-ever,
many of the technologies generated by research need to be adapted and
screened through on-far-m tests before they can be disseminated to resource-
poor, medium and small-scale producers, particularly in the less-developed
regions of the country. Farmers themselves need to be involved as much as
possible in this process. Formal mechanisms for coordination between
research and extension, including consultation with the farming community,
were initiated in 1986. At the national level it is the Coordenadoria de
Opera9oes (COPER) of the national extension agency (EMBRATER), together
with EMBRAPA's Technology Diffusion and Transfer Department (DTT), which is
responsible for coordination of joint action programs. However, major
national research centers, and to a much lesser extent, some state-level
entities (UEPAEs) currently dispose of only modest resources (staff and
equipment) for technology transfer. One of the major reasons for the
overall weakness of the technology diffusion system is, that thus far, this
aspect has not been recognized as an explicit function of the research
establishment. Accordingly, a researcher's effcorts and effectiveness in
this area do not, as yet, enter into his or her professional performance
evaluation. The above applies particularly to the Northeast and Amazon
regions of the country.
The Northeast and Amazon Reaions
A. The Northeast
2.13     The Northeast of Brazil is comprised of the States of Maranhao,
Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe,
and Bahia. The region covers an area of more than 1.5 million km2 (18? of
the country's total area) with an estimated 1988 population of 41 million
(about 29? of the country's total), growing at 2.2Z per year. Conditions
are characterized by periodic droughts, uncertain rainfall, skewed land
distribution, and limited employment opportunities. These problems have
resulted in high levels of poverty and under-employment. In 1985, about
half of the region's rural population (representing 45? of its total
population) earned one quarter or less of the official minimum wage (about
US$60 per month).
2.14     The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production. Irrigated agriculture represents only a small
proportion of land under cultivation, with irrigated lands mainly located
along the Sao Francisco River and downstream of small dams. In addition to
the challenge of devising economically viable production systems for



- 8 -
agriculture in this region, the social pressures generated by large numbers
of rural pOtO have greatly increased the pressures on the fragile
agricultural base. The Bank has supported a number of irrigation and rural
development projects in this region. In the current series of rural
development projects (the NRDP/PAPP program, supported by ten state-based
loans and one regional land tenure improvement loan, approved from FY85 to
FY87), adaptive research components were included.  Most of the irrigation
projects also contain specific research components. Also, with assistance
from the First and Second Agricultural Research projects (paras.
2.17-2.18), a Regional Research Center for the Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA)
was established in the Northeast near Petrolina, Pernambuco, and this
station was given the role of coordinating agricultural research in the
region, including the research components of the NRDPIPAPP program.
B. The Legal Amazon
2.15     The region as defined in Law No. 5.173 of October 27, 1966,
comprises the States of Amazonas, Acre, rart, RondOnia, Tocantins,4 Amap&
and Roraima; the western half of the state of Maranhgo (west of 440 W) and
northern Mato Grosso (north of 160 S). Its 5.1 million km' account for
about 602 of Brazil's national territory, with an estimated 1987 population
of 15.5 million, (about 112 of the country's total). Approximately 501 of
the population lives in rural areas. More than 75Z of the region is
comprised of the fragile, but globally important ecosystem of the tropical
rain forest. In 1980, in response to growing socio-economic problems due
to ever increasing migratory flows into the Northwest agricultural frontier
areas of Mato Grosso and RondOnia, the Brazilian Government launched the
Northwest Region Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE). The
centerpiece of the program, with participation of the Bank, which also
involved three agricultural loans (Loans 2060-BR of US$89.9 million;
2116-BR of US$26.4 million; and 2353-BR of US$13.0 million), and a loan for
a health project (Loan 2061-BR), was the completion and asphalting of a
main federal highway (BR-364) and the construction of feeder roads (Loan
2062-BR). Overall, the program which, inter-alia, aimed at promoting
sustainable systems of agriculture and forest production, and improved
health care, has only had a marginal effect in reversing destructive
development patterns. However, in preparation for a possible RondOnia
Natural Resource Management project, the Federal and RondOnia State
Government' have since focused major efforts on land capability
classificawion and in 1988 adopted agro-ecological zoning as the basis for
development planning in RondOnia State. For the Amazon region as a whole,
knowledge of the agricultural potential is still inadequate, but, of the
areas known to have apparent agricultural potential, some 19 million ha of
flood plains (varzeas) are considered the most important for future
development.
Past Bank Lending for the Agriculture Sector
2.16     As of September 30, 1989, the Bank had made 54 loans, totalling
US$4,560.8 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. These loans include: one agricultural credit and
41 The State of Tocantins, until recently, formed the northern part of the
State of Goits and the states of Amap& and Roraima, until recently,
were territories.



-9-
export loan for US$303 milliont one agricultural credit loan for US$300
milliont one credit and marketing reform adjustment loan for US$500
million: two supplemental loana for US$30.5 million under the 1983 Special
Action Program; four loans for US$785.8 million for agroindustries; three
for US$111.5 million, for livestock, including an animal disease control
project of US$51 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two
for US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
one for US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for US$195 million
for the irrigation subsector; and 34, totalling US$1,813.3 million, for
various settlement, irrigation, land management and rural development
projects in the Northeast, in Minas Gerais (the Southeast), Parana (the
South), and in the North and Northwest.
2.17     The Bank has supported two previous national agricultural research
projects.  The First Agricultural Rese:rch Project (Loan 1249-BR for US$40
million approved in FY76) had a total project cost of US$189 million. The
project assisted the Government in formulating a national research policy
and in establishing a national research service and a basic network of
research infrastructure. Staff training - both long-term (degree) training
and short-term fellowships - and technical assistance made important
contributions to strengthening the institution. Fundin6 was also provided
in support of research programs dealing with farming systems and with
selected commodities such as rice, beans, maize and cassava.  The project
was considered successful, despite start-up problems and Government hiring
restrictions which delayed project completion by two years to June 1983.
Among major lessons learned, the 1985 Project Performance Audit Report
mentioned* (i) the need for carefully designed staff training and
technical assistance programs to su.reng_;hen research program management and
improve administrative procedures; and (ii) the need for greater
involvement of end users, including extension staff, in the technology
generation and transfer processes.
2.18     The Second Agricultural Research Project (Loan 2016-BR, US$60
million, approved in PY81) had a total cost of US$110 million. Apart from
providing continued support to EMBRAPA, the second project focused more on
improving ENBRAPA's technical capacity for farmer-oriented, adaptive
research. It also provided funding to further strengthen research planning
and programming and to establish information and documentation services,
and research monitoring and evaluation systems. Technical assistance and
staff training were also important project components. The project was
implemented on schedule; a sixth year of disbursement was used to complete
funding of foreign fellowships. A major lesson learned was that increased
attention needed to be focussed on the Northeast and Amazon, which had
benefitted much less than other regions from newly generated technologies.
A project completion report was recently issued (May 31, 1980).
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Oriain
3.01     The Bank's strategy for Brazil is to foster macro-economic
stability and economic growth, to support efficient resource allocation,
Increased efficiency in the public sector, and appropriate targeting and
delivery of support services, while contributing to environmental



- 10 -
sustainability. The important role which technology generation and
dissemination have played in the growth and increased productivity of
Brazil's agricultural sector is widely acknowledged. During the past
decade the Bank has supported efforts to strengthen agricultural research
at the federal and state level. Under the NRDP-PAPP program the Bank is
also supporting ten state research programs. Based on lessons learned, it
is recognized that increased attention needs to be focused on the Northeast
and Amazon regions. Due to their more complex agro-ecological and socio-
economic conditions, these regions have thus far benefitted much leis than
other parts of the country from newly generated technologies. Through the
proposed project, the Bank would support Brazilian efforts to develop and
disseminate environmentally sound agricultural production technology which
would contribute to sustained development in two of Brazil's ecologically
most vulnerable and eccnamically depressed regions. The Bank would also be
assisting EMBRAPA and sAate research agencies in strengthening and
improving the efficiency of the SCPA, particularly in the Northeast and
Legal Amazon Regions.
Obiectives
3.02     The project vou_d support the execution, dissemination and
assessment of the resultsu of research programs designed to contribute to
the formulation of sustatnable agricultural production systems in two
distinct agro-ecological areas, i.e., the semi-arid northeast region and
the ecologically vulnerable humid tropics of the Amazon region. It would
seek to -apitalize on previous investments made in research and strengthen
technology diffusion systems.  In addition, in order to keep EMBRAPA
abreast of new developments, basic ressarch in the areas of biotechnology,
food technology, soil biology and the environmental impact of agricultural
development vould be further strengthened. The project would also seek to
increase the efficiency of the SCPA in the Northeast through the adjustment
of ongoing NRDP-PAPP research programs and the definition of appropriate
procedures to consolidate these programs under the aegis of EMBRAPA.
Proiect Area (Maps IBRD 21641 and 21642)
3.03     The project area vould comprise the semi-arid tropics of the
Northeast (paras. 2.13-2.14) and the humid tropics of the north and north-
west referred to as the Legal Amazon (para. 2.15).   The specific research
programs supported by the project would have particular relevance to the
problem faced by producers in these regions. However, the benefits
derived from the improved support services, and particularly those related
to institutional strengthening, would also have significant beneficial
impact on the national cooperative rese&rch system as a whole.
Summary Descrintion
3.04     The project strategy would be to develop production technology and
to ensure that such technology becomes available to farmers and livestock
producers in a timely manner. The project would h&ve the following
componentss 5
5/ Costs shown are base costs; detailed cost figures for the various
research programs and centers are shown in Annexes 3 and 4 and in Staff
Working Paper B 17 (Project File, Annex 7).



- 11 -
(a)  Development of new crop production technology at two regional
and eight national commodity research centers, along with
crop, livestock and forestry improvement research covering
nine major crops, three minor crop groups, plus beef, dairy
cattle, water buffalo, goats, and forestry, and field-testing
at sixteen state-level adaptive research centers (US$45.5
million, 552 of base costs);
(b)  Research support programs in the areas of (i) biotechnology;
(ii) food technology; (iii) soil biology and soil management;
(iv) irrigation; (v) and environmental impact of agricultural
development, at eight research centers (US$26.5 million, 32Z
of base costs);
(c)  Technology transfer, including testing of alternative
technology transfer systems; collaborative efforts with
private and public agricultural extens4on services; and
increased use of field tests and demonstration plots (US$3.3
million, 4Z of baseline costs);
(d)  Institutional development and strengthening of EMBRAPA and
other parts of the SCPA, including reform and unification of
management and operational systems (US$3.6 million, 4Z of
baseline costs); and
(e)  Project impact assessment and special studies, including
continued monitoring and evaluation adopted under the second
research project (Loan 2016-BR), and expansion of socio-
economic studies (US$3.2 million, 4Z of baseline costs).
3.05     In order to carry out the above activities, the project would
finance:
(a) Research infrastructure, including:
(i)      civil works at major locations, including ancillary
buildings such as greenhouses, storage buildings,
laboratories, office buildings and some staff housing
in more remote areas; and research farm development,
for the further development of the cashew nut
research center at Fortaleza, and of the new center
for irrigation and drainage research at Parnaiba
(US$19.6 million); and
(ii)     machinery, furniture and equipment, mainly comprising
office and laboratory furniture and equipment; and
scientific journals, periodicals, reference books and
micro-film equipment for library and documentation
services; scientific instruments; farm machinery and
equipment, including farm animals for reproduction
and research purposes (US$26.7 million);
(b) graduate studies and training fellowships, comprising degree
training for about 300 staff, and about 2,000 staffmonths of
t _    . '1         (    5 0'  114  1;



-12 -
(c) consultant and specialized services (US$9.1 million); and
(d) incremental operating and maintenance costs for research
programs, equipment and facilities funded under the project
(US$11.7 million).
In addition, some US$7.1 million of vehicles and US$2.0 million of computer
equipment for research stations would be purchased by EMBRAPA (para. 3.32).
Detailed Description
(i) Technology Generation
3.06     The Northeast Region.  The regional research program would seek
to: (a) study the factors that limit basic food production and design
adequately tested production packages; (b) find alternative solutions for
marginal production areas by selection of suitable crop and animal
production systems; (c) where feasible, develop water-harvesting and
supplementary irrigation systems; (d) in irrigated perimeters with adequate
water supply, select high yield, high value crops such as grapes, tomatoes,
melons and asparagus, enabling producers to offset the high investment and
production costs associated with irrigated agriculture; and (e) develop
more productive livestock production systems through small ruminant
(sheep/goat) selections, improved pasture, supplemental feeding,
integration with cropping systems, and the rational use of native
vegetation.
3.07     The program would be carried out through the existing research
station network in the Northeast. This includes: (a) six CNPs: for goats
and hairless sheep (CNPC) at Sobral, Cear&; dairy cattle (CNPGL) at the
Umbuzeiro sub-station, Paraiba; cotton (CNPA) at Campina Grande, Paraiba;
cassava and tropical fruits (CNPMF) at Cruz das Almas, Bahia; Coconut
(CNPCo) at Aracaj6, Sergipe; and Cashew (CNPCa), now being established at
Fortaleza, Ceara; (b) one EMBRAPA-owned state level research center:
UEPAE-Teresina in Piaui; (c) eight state-owned research companies: EPABA
(Bahia); EPACE (Ceara); EMAPA (Maranhlo); EMEPA (Paraiba); IPA
(Pernambuco); EMPARN (Rio Grande do Norte); EMPEASE (Sergipe); and EPEAL
(Alagoas). The research program would be coordinated and supervised by
CPATSA, EMBRAPA's regional center for the semi-arid Northeast. This would
also include coordination of agricultural research funded under the
NRDP/PAPP program. In addition to providing continued support for staff
training, for strengthening the technology transfer process and for
incremental operating and investment needs, (e.g., laboratory equipment,
green houses, documentation and library materials) for the above research
programs, the project would finance the construction of offices, laboratory
and library facilities to further accommodate the cashew research program
(CNPCa) at Fortaleza.
Z.08     The Legal Amazon Region.  The research program would focus on:
(a) natural resource inventories and socio-economic studies to determine
production potentials and constraints and providing the knowledge required
for the preservation of genetic resources and endangered species; (b) basic
and applied agronomic research ovr native and exotic species with a view to



- 13 -
develop resource management and production systems that are in harmony with
the often fragile ecosystems found in the region; and (c) based on the
above, the development of mixed farming systems, in collaboration with
local producers. Research programs dealing with basic food crops (beans,
cowpeas, cassava, maize, sorghum, and rice) would concentrate on production
problems most commonly encountered, i.e., resistance to plant diseases and
pests, harvesting, drying, storage and marketing problems. Research
involving traditional perennial crops (Brazil nut, oil palm, rubber, black
pepper, and guarana (Paulinia cupana)) would be supplemented by research
on *new" crops, (e.g., cupuas6 (Theobroma grandiflorum); mangaba (Hancornia
sDeciosa), mangabeira rubber), and several native palm species), including
tests on their possible commercial value. Livestock production research
would focus on properly-managed pasture establishment and/or pasture
improvement trials, including work on converting degraded pastures back
into tree-crops. Studies on water buffalo, both for milk/beef production
and for animal traction, would also be supported.
3.09     Environmental management is one of the major challenges in the
Amazon Region. In response to this, forestry research under the overall
direction of the National Center for Forestry Research (CNPP) at Curitiba
(Parana) would focus on the following four priority areas: (i) germplasm
conservation (collecting and propagating genetic material of species
threatened by extinction); (ii) management of natural forest;
(iii) silvicultural research; and (iv) agroforestry research. Coordination
of the work program would be the responsibility of the regional center for
Agroforestory Research for the Amazon (CPAA) (para. 2.09). The project
would support work already initiated in developing and testing agro-
forestry techniques and would study promising native species and sustained-
yield forest management techniques. Continuing studies on the pulping
quality of native tree species would also be supported.
3.10     Project-funded research activities within the region would be
coordinated by the Research Center for the Humid Tropics (CPATU) at Bel1m
(Part). Planning and technical inputs for specific commodities would be
provided by the respective national research programs (PNPs), through a
senior researcher designated by each commodity research center. Specific
research programs would be supported under the proposed project at CPATU
(Belem, Para); CPAA (Manaus, Amazonas); UEPAE-Macapi (Amapa); UEPAE-Boa
Vista (Roraima); UEPAE-Beldm (Para); UEPAE-Porto Velho (Rond6nia); and
UEPAE-Rio Branco (Acre). The project would finance upgrading of
infrastructure at some of these research centers; incremental needs for
strengthening technology transfer, staff training (including for staff of
the Mato Grosso state research company, EMPA), and incremental laboratory
equipment, documentation and library materials.
(ii) Research Support Programs
3.11     The knowledge generated by the service-oriented research support
programs would be largely dictated by user demand generated within the SCPA
and would have a broad impact on all the research programs within the
system. Areas of investigation supported under this project component
includes biotechnology; agroindustrial and food technology; soils;
environmental studies; and irrigation and drainage.



- 14 -
3.12     Biotechnology.  Research in this rapidly developing new field of
producing new plant varieties and animal breeds in the laboratory, and of
changing their genetic make-up in order to increase their resistance to
environmental and biological stresses, would be conducted at the National
Center for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (CENARGEN), located near
EMBRAPA headquarters, Brasilia. Of particular interest under the project
would be specific work on beans, vegetables, oil palm, nitrogen fixation,
agro-industrial applications, animal I-ealth and genetic improvement, and
the cataloguing of botanical resources. The project would finance the
construction of three additional laboratories (for molecular chemistry,
tissue culture and DNA-recombinant research, respectively) and ten offices,
together totalling some 2,500 m2; and an administrative office (300 m2);
equipment and furniture; about 20 staffmonths of short-term overseas
training; sixty staffmonths of short-term foreign consultancies; books and
periodicals; and incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17,
Annexes 6 and 7, Table 37).
3.13     Agroindustrial and Food Technology.  This research prograw would
be conducted at the National Research Center for Agro-Industry and Food
Technology (CTAA) at Guaritiba, Rio de Janeiro. Research topics would
include: developing economic uses for fruits and plants found in the
Amazon region; improving quality control for the production of fresh and
processed fruits and vegetables in the Northeast; analyzing little-known
products, e.g. buffalo meat and specialized milk products, to test consumer
acceptance; testing of the oil content of black pepper to ebtablish quality
control and minimum norms for drying and handling; determining the relative
market value of native fruit species and essential oils; and evaluating the
oil yield from the latest introductions of oilpalm hybrids. The project
would finance the construction of about 3,000 mi of laboratory, pilot plant
and storage space; equipment and furniturel higher degree training for
eleven staff (6 M.Sc. and 5 Ph.D.); 63 staff months of short-term training;
44 staffmonths of short-term consultancies; books and periodicals; and
incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7,
Table 38).
3.14     Soil Biology. Soil Survey and Conservation.  Soil microbiology
research is the responsibility of the National Center for Soil Biology
Research (.'NPBS) at Itagui near Rio de Janeiro.  The headquarters of the
Soil Survey and Conservation Service (SLNCS) are located in Rio de Janeiro,
and there are regional offices in the project area at Belim and Recife.
Research priorities under the proposed project would be:
(a) for soil microbioloty: research on nitrogen-fixing bacteria
to reduce the need for nitrogen fertilizers on main crops;
studies on green manuring and (annual) crop rotations to
maintain soil fertility at lower cost; adaptation of specific
strains of the nitrogen-fixing bacteria (Rhizobia) to specific
soil conditions; and studies of the relationship of soil
microbiology to soil structure under irrigated conditions; and
(b) for soil survey and conservationt soil survey and mapping
activities in the Northeast and Amazon regions to meet
requirements for agricultural development and/or environmental
protection in these areas; production of soils and
agroecological maps for thu major agricultural crops in each
state andlor region; studies for the improved management of
the major riverine floodplain. (varzeas) in the Amazon region.



- 15 -
The project would finance: (i) for CNPBS, renovation of its existing
facilities at Itaguai; equipment and furniture; higher degree training for
six staff (5 Ph.D and 1 H.Sc.); 43 staffmonths of short-term training; 86
staffmonths of short-term consultancies; books and periodicals; and
incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7,
Table 39); (ii) for SNLCS headquarters (at Rio de Janeiro), the
construction of a 400 m2 auditorium and 600 ml library; higher degree
(Ph.D.) training for one staff; ten staffmonths of short-term training;
five staffmonths of short-term consultancies; and incremental operating
costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7, Table 40); and (iii) the
strengthening of field stations at Recife (Northeast) and Belem (Amazon
region) to meet the demand for survey work in these regions. Specifically,
the project would provide for the construction of about 1,100 mz of office,
labordLory, library and storage space at Belem and 875 m2 at Recife; M.Sc.
training for one researcher, 2 staffmanths of short-term staff training,
and 15 staffmonths of short-term consultancies, for each of the two field
stations, plus some equipment, furniture, books and periodicals; and
incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7,
Tables 41 and 42).
3.15     Environmental Studies.  The National Center for Plant Protection
and Environmental Research (CNPDA), located at Jaguarinha (near Campinas in
Slo Paulo State), would carry out a research program to assist all the
units within the SCPA in activities related to crop production and
protection techniques and their potential impact on the various ecosystems.
Research priorities under the project would comprise: (a) methodological
and technical guidance and coordination of environmental protection studies
which are directly related to agricultural production techniques, avoiding
duplication of efforts and providing adequate interface with the programs
and aims of the new National Institute for the Environment and Renewable
Resources (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renoviveis, IBAMA); (b) strengthened research in the areas of toxicology,
and on rates of application and residual effects of agricultural chemicals;
(c) research on natural substances with a potential for being used in
biological pest/disease control; (d) establishment of quarantine systems
and guidelines to improve the level of protection against accidental import
of pests and diseases exotic to Brazil; and (e) development of methods to
breed beneficial insects for use in pest control. The project would
finance about 1,940 mz of civil works (laboratories, auditorium, storage
and screenhouses); equipment and furniture; higher degree training for
eighteen staff (14 Ph.D. and 4 M.Sc.); 186 staffmonths of short-term
training 'most of it in national institutio.as); five staffyears of long-
term and 37 staffmonths of short-term consultancies; books and periodicals;
and incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7,
Table 43).
3.16     Irrigation and Drainage.  Research on irrigation and drainage
would be carried out by the National Research Center for Irrigated
Agriculture (CNPAI), located at Parnaiba, Piaui. Priorities for the
rasearch program under the project would be: (a) basic studies within the
project area, on topics such as hydrological conditions or watershed
characteristics, and evaluation of irrigation and drainage requirements;
(b) water and soil management techniques; (c) engineering and drainage
techniques for specific crops and/or cropping systems; (d) the



- 16 _
introduction, evaluation and selection of specific crop varieties suitable
for irrigation; and (e) studies to determine profitability and socio-
economic impact of irrigated production systems. The project would finance
about 1,160 mt of civil works (laboratory and storage space; screen houses;
a water storage tank; and a small transformer house); equipment and
furniture; higher degree training for fifteent staff (3 Ph.D. and 12 M.Sc.);
twenty-four staffmonths of short-term training); thirty-two staffmonths of
short-term consultancies; books and periodicals; and incremental operating
costs (Staff Working Paper, Annexes 6 and 7, Table 44).
(iii)  Technology Transfer and Dissemination
3.17     Teams composed of researchers and extension staff specialized in
communication and audio-visual methods would be formed or existing ones
strengthened at each of the major research centers in the project area.
The teams would ensure that: (a) technology generated by the research
system is appropriate and responsive to the conditions and needs of the
local farmers; (b) technology is disseminated among extension workers and
to farmers as soon as it becomes available; and (c) there is adequate
feedback from farmer to researcher. Team composition and diffusion
methodologies would be tailored to the needs and characteristics of the
target group and area. Methods used would consist of field demonstrations,
observation plots, and on-farm tests. Training would aim at upgrading the
skills and knowledge of extension workers; also, some fifteen research
personnel specialized in technology transfer would benefit from long-term
training (4 Ph.D. and 11 M.Sc.). A total of 180 staffmonths (including 20
overseas) of short-term training would be provided in such topics as rural
development; adaptive and participatory research concepts and methodology;
and communication methods and technology. In addition to providing funds
for the above training costs, the project would finance 26 staffnonths of
short-term technical assistance; materials, audio-visual programs and
courses; and incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes
6 and 7, Tables 18-36). About twenty incremental staff to provide each of
the major research stations with a basic team of trained staff responsible
for technology transfer would be made available by the Government through
redeployment of existing EIBRAPA staff. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that the Government would provide satisfactory evidence that
this minimum number of staff required under the project for the technology
transfer component had been designated within the various major research
units benefitting from the project. During negotiations, it was agreed
that EMBRAPA thereafter would maintain in each such research unit adequate
staff for the purposes of carrying out this specialized activity in a
satisfactory manner.
(iv) Institutional Development
3.18     There is a need to strengthen state-based agricultural research
agencies which, within the cooperative research system, share the
responsibility for a6aptive research with the decentralized EMBRAPA units
(UEPAE's) (para. 2.06). As a result of deficiencies in organization and
employment conditions (i.e., pay scales, training opportunities and general
benefits), state-based research companies have not always been able to
attract highly qualified staff to fill existing positions, and to provide
staff with the training opportunities available to federal EMBRAPA staff.
This has been a relatively more serious problem in the Northern and



17 _
Northeastern regions of the country where similar problems are encountered
in retaining qualified staff for EMBRAPA's own decentralized units.
EMBRAPA has, in the past, assisted state-owned research companies by
seconding EMBRAPA re3earchers and administrative staff to them (Annex 2,
Table 2), and by providing technical assistance and training opportunities.
The project would support the following activities, coordinated by the
Coordinating Unit for Organizational Development (CDO) f EMBRAPA's
President's office (GPR): ti) preparation of a diagnostic study of each of
the decentralized EMBRAPA units and state research companies; (ii) based on
a planned review of all agricultural research conducted in Brazil by both
the public and private sector (para. 3.19), preparation of recommendations
and an action plan for restructuring and strengthening the national
research system; (iii) training of professional and administrative staff,
with a strong emphasis on research management training, through seminars,
in-house and formal (degree and short-term) training; and (iv) upgrading
EMBRAPA's central and decentralized libraries with reference materials on
research management and institutional development. The project would
finance: higher degree training for a total of about 50 M.Sc. and 15 Ph.D.
candidates and about 500 staffmonths of short-term (mostly local) training;6
ninety staffmonths of short-term consultancies; contract research;
furniture and equipment; and books and periodicals (Staff Working Paper B-
17, Annexes 6 and 7, Table 45).
(v) Prolect Impact Assessment and Special Studies
3.19     Under the Second Agricultural Research Project (Loan 2016-BR) a
monitoring system was put in place which involved all research centers and
programs and which allowed for comparing and assessing implementation
achievements against original project goals and targets. Common key
indicators covered expenditures by individual research program, staff
movements, training, consultant services, overall progress in civil works
construction, materials and equipment procurement. In addition to
continuing to support the research monitoring system, the present project
would provide funds in support of more analytical work, also initiated
under the previous project, which is aimed at assessing the impact of
agricultural research programs. The focus in those studies would be on
specific topics, such ass farmer responses to new technologies and
practices; the role of government policies on production; the profitability
of farming and employment in the rural areas; and a planned review of all
agricultural research conducted in Brazil by both the public and the
private sector, including a review and redefinition, if necessary, of
overall research priorities. Data obtained and insights gained would be
used as inputs for the planned in-depth review of the project in the third
year of its implementation (para. 3.25); for the preparation of the
project completion report; and in the preparation of future research
programs. The above studies would be coordinated by EMBRAPA's Planning
Department (DPL) (para. 3.23).
3.20     The project would provide funding fors  three national M.Sc. and
3 overseas Ph.D. degrees; 49 staffmonths of local short-term and 20 staff
months of short-term overseas training; 126 staffmonths of short-term
consultancies; contract research for a total of about US$1.6 million, which
includes funds enabling EMBRAPA staff to attend annual research planning
6/ Seventy-five percent of all training would involve researchers and
support staff from State Research Companies.



- 18 -
and review meetings (para- 2.08); funds for carrying out a project mid-term
review (para. 3.25); and Dor preparing a project completion report aud
follow-up studies (para. 3.19). The project would also finance the
purchase of some equipment and furnituret books and periodicals, and
incremental operating costs (Staff Working Paper B-17, Annexes 6 and 7,
Table 46).
Project Organization and Implementation
3.21     Overall Organization.  The project would be implemented within the
existing EMBRAPA and SCPA organizational structntre (paras. 2.07-2.09 and
Arnex 1), and the overall responsibilities for different aspects of project
execution would be similar to the arrangements under the previous two
agricultural research projects. The Board of Directors of EMBRAIA would
have the ultimate resoonsibility for the management of the research
programs. It would oversee the collaboration among the national commodity
centers, the regional centers and the state-level research stations, and
would be responsible for seeing that these centers and stations receive
the needed support from the various headquarters departments of EMBRAPA.
It would also be responsible for decisions about matters directly related
to project implementation, such as the allocation of counterpart funds;
recruitment and transfer of staff; and negotiating contracts or joint
research programs with other research entities.
3.22     EMBRAPA's Budget Department (DOC), through its Coordination Unit
for Internationally-funded Projects (CPI) would be responsible for the
overall coordination of project-related activities through a Project
Coordinator. This person would be the main contact with the Bank on all
project-related day-to-day, technical, administrative and financial
matters.   CPIIDOC, with a fully computerized management information
system, would exercise its coordinating role through the existing regional
centers within the project (CPATSA and CPATU, respectively). Under the
project, in order to ensure timely project implementation, a Regional
Research Coordinator at each of the above two centers, would: (i) provide
support to the research units within their respective region in the
preparation and implementation of their annual work programs (PAT);
(ii) analyze, approve, and consolidate the individual PATs; and
(iii) monitor the implementation of the regional research program. Prior
to negotiations, EMBRAPA appointed within DOC a Project Coordinator with
terms of references, qualifications, and experience satisfactory to the
Bank. EMBRAPA has also appointed, for each of the regional research
centers--CPATU and CPATSA--a Regional Research Coordinator vith terms of
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. During
negotiations, EMBRAPA provided assurances that it would create and
maintain the positions of a Project Coordinator and two Ragional Research
Coordinators in accordance with terms of reference agreed between ENBRAPA
and the Bank, and thereafter, appoint to and maintain in such positions
Coordinators with qualifications and experience satistactcrv to MIBRAPP nrd
the Bank.  Moreover, it was agreed that a1&agp -                ¢
coordination within the cooperative agri::u-- 
among the aspects tn be reviewed and commented upon during the project'&
mid-term review (para. 3.25).
3.23     To support DOC in its coordinating function, the following EMBRAPA
departments would also play a ro)' in project implementation and
coordination:



- 19 -
(a) the Technical and Scientific Department (DTC) would be
responsible for coordinating technical aspects, for providing
guidance in research progranming, research mocnitoring and
evaluation. including organizing annual research planning and
review meetings (para. 2.08), and a-'lyzing and consolidating
annual research programs;
(b)  the Human Resources Department (DRH) would be responsible for
manpower development and project-related training; an6
(c) the Technology Transfer Department (DTT) would be responsible
for coordinating and supervising technology transfer and
dissemination activities.
The Planning Department (DPL) would be responsible for project
monitoring and impact assessment, and special studies. The various
monitoriug and evaluation responsibilities would be shared by a Committee
under the chairmanship of CPIIDOC and whose membership would include
representatives of DTC, DRH. DTT, CPI/DOC, DPL and CDO/GPR.
1.24     Proiect Planning and Reporting.  The Project Coordinator (para.
3.22) would obtain each year from each of the participating State Research
Agencies and from each of the above Departments a draft Annual Operational
Plan (PAT) and budget for the coming year, consolidate those plans and
submit a draft consolidated PAT and budget to the Bank by November 30 for
its review and coument. The plans would provide detailed information
concerning the activities planned by each research unit under the project
(number and type of research programs; staff training; civil works
construction; equipment to be procured, etc.); detailed budgets, allocation
of funds by source of funds; and implementation schedules (for civil works
construction, technical assistance, training, procurement, etc.). With
regard to civil works, each PAT would contain a detailed schedule of works
proposed for the forthcoming two years, specifying the type of construction
proposed; area to be constructed; proposed bid date; estimated construction
time; estimated total cost; and ranking of the proposed projects in order
of priority. As part of the draft consolidated PAT, EMBRAPA would furnish
to the Bank satisfactory evidence of ownership or of long-term user rights
to the land where project-funded construction would be undertaken.
Assurances on the above planning procedures were provided by EMBRAPA during
negotiations. It is expected that the consolidated budget would be
approved by the Brazilian Congress by December 15 of each year.
3.25     Twice a year, DOC through the Project Coordinator, would prepare
and send to the Bank progress reports on the items and activities outlined
in the PAT.  The first report, covering the period January 1-June 30, would
be sent to the Bank each year by September 30. It would present project
progress in a mostly quantitative form through key indicators.  The second
report, covering the period January 1 to December 31 of each year, would be
sent to the Bank annually by April 30 of the following year. The latter
report, in addition to providing a quantitative update of project progress
during the second semester, would be more descriptive and analytical with
respect to the previous year's research results, the problems faced and
solutions provided. Any special evaluation studies prepared by DPL
(para. 3.23) would be provided to the Bank for review and comments. During



- 20 -
the third year of the project, EMBRAPA, assisted by a team of experts paid
under the project, would carry out a major review of project activities,
and assess project impact and overall research priorities in the light of
the project's objectives, targets and long-term goals. The mid-term review
would also assess organizational aspects, including research planning and
coordination; monitoring, evaluation and technology dissemination systems;
feed-back mechanisms and the effectiveness of research-extension linkages
established under the project. Similarly, DOC would be responsible for
preparing the project completion roport which would summarize the project's
performance and evaluate the lessons learned during its implementation.
During negotiations, EMBRAPA provided assurances that: (a) semi-annual
reports would be prepared and sent to the Bank for review with the contents
and by the annual dates specified above: (b) special evaluation studies
prepared by DPL would be furnished to the Bank for review and comments;
(c) EMBRAPA would arrange for a major mid-term review of project
activities, impact and priorities and organizational and institutional
arrangements, by a team of international experts, whose terms of reference
would be presented to the Bank for approval by March 31, 1992, and whose
final report would be presented to the Bank by September 30, 1992; and
(d) any research program and organizational changes recommended in the
report and agreed upon between EMBRAPA. and the Bank would be implemented
thereafter by EMBRAPA.
3.26     Contractual Arrangements.  For the purpose of carrying out
specific, project-funded activities, EMBRAPA would enter into contractual
arrangements, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with other
participating research-executing entities, for example, universities.
Specifically also, EMBRAPA, for the purposes of the project, would eater
into a contractual arrangement with each of the state research companies
within the project area. During negotiations, EMBRAPA provided assurances
that: (a) terms and conditions for such contractual arrangements would
include annual work plans and would set out execution guidelines, targets
and procedures, including funding, reporting and monitoring arrangements;
and (b) it would ensure that each of the entities would submit semi-annual
progress reports to EMBRAPA for inclusion in the semi-annual reports to be
sent to the Bank (para. 3.25). It would be a condition of effectiveness
that contractual arrangements between EMBRAPA and the nine participating
State research agencies with terms and conditions agreed with the Bank,
would have been signed.
3.27     Accounts and Audits.  Separate project accounts would be kept by
the International Agreements Division (Divislo de Convenios) of EMBRAPA's
Finance Department (DFN). Its coded accounting system allows for the
identification at any time, of expenditures by source of funds.
Decentralized units would send their computerized summaries to DFN on a
weekly basis. EMBRAPA's registers and general accounts, including the FESA
Special Account held abroad (para. 3.34), are regularly audited by the
National Treasury (STN/MINIFAZ). Also, internal auditors (Assessoria de
Auditoria Interna, AUD) in the Office of the Presidency carry out complete
financial and operational audits of all EMBRAPA units. These audits
include evaluations of systems and procedures followed. Assurances were
provided during negotiations that: (a) the Special Accounts and project
accounts would be established, maintained and audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to
withdrawals on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), EMBRAPA



- 21 -
would ensure that such audits contain a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the SOEs, together with the procedures involved in the
preparation, support the related withdrawals; (c) certified copies of the
audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year; and td) monthly
certified statements of the CESA and FESA would be fnirnished to the Bank.
Project Costs
3.28     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$97.8 million, with a foreign exchange component estimated at US$ 47.0
million, or about 482 of the total project cost. Details are in Annexes 3
and 4 and in Staff Working Paper B-17. Project baseline costs have been
estimated as of the da+ of negotiations (August 1989) and amount to about
US$82.1 million, inclu_.ing US$5.1 million equivalent in local taxes.
Physical contingencies of US$3.2 million or about 42 of the total baseline
cost, have been estimated at 102 for civil works and 52 for equipment,
furniture, books, and periodicals. Price contingencies of US$12.4 million
equivalent were included, based on estimated international inflation rates
of 7.22 per annum for 1989 and 4.42 for 1990 through 1995. It is assumed
that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a purchasing parity
basis, would compensate for differences between projected U.S. dollar
inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.29     The proposed Bank loan of US$47.0 million equivalent would finance
about 502 of total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 482 of total costs
including taxes. The loan which would finance 1002 of foreign exchange
costs, would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The
Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and the proceeds of the
loan would be passed on by the Federal Government to EMBRAPA on a grant
basis through a Subsidiary Agreement. During negotiations, EMBRAPA
provided assurances that it would make available to each participating
entity, funds in accordance with the amounts and timetable specified in the
approved annual operational plan (PAT). Conditions of loan effectiveness
would be thats (a) the Subsidiary Agreement had been duly entered into
between the Federal Government and EMBRAPA; and (b) the Government would
have provided evidence to the Bank that the 1990 proposed federal budget
provides for the funds required by EMBRAPA to implement the 1990
consolidated PAT. To enable EMBRAPA to prepare for start-up activities,
project expenditures (for civil works; consultancies and training;
furniture and equipment; and research program inputs) incurred after April
20, 1989 to the date of signing (expected within twelve months) would be
eligible for retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$4.7 million, or
102 of the loan amount.



- 22 -
Procurement
3.30     Procurement arrangements are sunmmarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element
ICB          LCB           OTHER          TOTAL
Civil Works                                23.7            1.0           24.7
(12.3)         (0.5)         (12.8)
Furniture and Equipment       23.0          3.2            5.6           31.8
(10.1)        (0.4)          (5.6)        (16.1)
Technical Assistance                                      10.4          10.4
(5.5)         (5.5)
Training                                                  17.1          17.1
(10.4)        (10.4)
Operational Costs                           4.0            9.7          13.7
(0.7)         (1.5)          (2.2)
Total                      23.0         30.9           43.8          97.8
(10.1)       (13.4)         (23.5)        (47.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts (including
contingencies) expected to be financed by the Bank.
3.31     Because of the widely dispersed nature and relatively small size
of individual civil works contracts, it is unlikely that foreign
contractors would be interested in building the proposed facilities. The
largest single contract would be less than US$2.5 million. Accordingly.
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank, would be used for civil works construction. Interested foreign
bidders would be allowed to participate. Where construction contracts are
expected to exceed US$750,000, plans, specifications. sod other bidding
documents would be submitted to the Bank for review prior to the Invitation
to Bid being issued. Once bids have been received and evaluated, EMBRAPA
would send the Bank a copy of the bid evaluation and their recommendation
for contract award. For construction contracts expected to cost between
US$150,000 and US$750,000, EMBRAPA would use model bidding documents that
were reviewed at negotiations. Once bids are received and evaluated,
EMBRAPA would send the Bank a small scale floor plan indicating what is
proposed to be built and a copy of the bid evaluation with their
recommendation as to the successful bidder. Prior Bank review would not be
required for any civil works contracts below US$150,000. Work by force
account would be permitted for small works (mostly improvements to existing



- 23 -
facilities). The aggragate value of such works would not exceed US$1.0
million equivalent. Total civil works procurement under the project is
estimated at US$24.7 million.
3.32     Where possible, goods to be procured would be grouped into
contracts amounting to more than US$250,000 to be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the Bank's Guidelines for
procurement. These would include the purchase of farm and laboratory
equipment. Such procurement would amount to an estimated total of US$23.0
million. Contracts for goods below US$250,000 would be procured through
LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The aggregated value of such
contracts would amount to an estimated US$7.2 million. Books and
periodicals, up to a total of US$5.6 million, would be procured through
direct purchase from the publishers. Vehicles, computers and electronic
equipment manufactured in Brazil and required by the project are reserved
procurement items and would not be financed under the proposed loan. Their
estimated cost, of US$7.1 million for vehicles, and US$2.0 million for
computer equipment, has been excluded from the total project cost. During
negotiations, EMBRADA provided assurances that these items would be
procured with its own resources, in a timely manner.
3.33     Contracts for goods for more than US$250,000, and the first two
contracts below US$250,000 for goods, and for civil works for more than
US$750,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid
evaluations, award proposals and final contracts. In total, Bank prior
review would cover about 522 of the aggregate value of contracts for goods
and civil works financed under the project. Fellowships. training programs
and consultancy services involving Brazilian universities, institutions,
consulting firms, both foreign and Brazilian, and individual consultants
would be administered directly by EMBRAPA. All consultant services,
totalling 934 months, would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.' During negotiations, EMBRAPA
provided assurances that the above procurement arrangements would be
followed.
Disbursements
3.34     In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special
Account in U.S. dollars would be established in the Central Bank to cover
local currency expenditures. The amount deposited in this Special Account
(CESA) could be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project
execution, but would not exceed US$2.0 million. EMBRAPA would be entitled
to make periodic withdrawals from the Special Account at the exchange rate
applicable on the day upon which each payment for eligible local
expenditures is made. Foreign exchange expenditures incurred would be made
from a second Special Account (FESA) which would be established by EMBRAPA
in a commercial bank abroad acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit
also of US$2.0 million. The Bank would replenish both Special Accounts for
the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the
request of the Federal Government. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be
disbursed against the following categories, as indicated below:



- 24 -
Allocation of       Percentage of Total
Category                    Loan Amount          Expenditures to be
(US$ million)             Financed
(1) Civil Works                    11.8        502 of total civil works
(2) Equipment & Furniture          14.0        100? of foreign and 15? of
(Includes books and                        local expenditures
livestock)
(3) Technical Assistance            4.8        100? of forwign expenditures
(4) Training                        9.4        100? of foreign expenditures
(5) Incremental Operating Costs     2.0        25Z of incremental costs up
to an amount of US$0.8
million, 202 up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.9
million, and 4? thereafter
(6) Unallocated                     5.0
Total                        47.0
Disbureements for contracts not exceeding US$150,000, force account and
operating expenses not made under contract, would be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the various executing
agencies and certified by the Project Coordinator. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be available
for inspection by the Bank during project supervision missions.
3.35     A five-year disbursement period is planned.  The two previous
Bank-financed agricultural research projects were disbursed in 7 and 6
years, respectively (paras. 2.17 and 2.18). In the latter case, the sixth
year was needed primarily to complete disbursements for foreign
fellowships. Since appraisal, significant changes in EMBRAPA's management
and management structure have been introduced and EMBRAPA has moved quickly
to set in motion needed arrangements for procurement and implementation.
During negotiations, the Bank reviewed with EHBRAPA the draft operational
plan (PAT) for the first twelve months and civil works proposals for the
first two years of the project. The PAT (para. 3.24) provides detailed
plans for all project-related activities. Civil works construction under
the project would be subject to more rigorous and systematic forward
planning, and supervision during construction would be strengthened under
the overall coordination of a national coordinator within EMBRAPA's
Coordinating Unit for Architecture and Engineering (CEA) and much of the
civil works procurement would be based on model bidding documents whose
format and content has already been agreed to between the Bank and EI4RAPA
(para. 3.31). For these reasons, and because the proposed lending
operation is relatively small, project implementation and disbursements are
not expected to exceed five years (Loan and Projec_. Summary and Annex 6).



- 25 -
Proiect Benefits and Justification
3.36     Economic Benefits.  The beneficial economic impact of farmer-
focussed agricultural research programs executed by a well-organized and
adequately funded research organization is amply demonstrated in the case
of Brazil. From a relatively poorly staffed and organized institution in
1972 when it was created, EMBRAPA today is recognized worldwide as a
respected research organization with well-trained staff. A 1983 OED-
report,7 reporting on the outcome of a review of the Bank's experience in
supporting agricultural research and extension through a sample of 128
projects in ten countries, reported favorably on the Brazilian case. Other
studies have demonstrated that economic returns to agricultural research
are generally high, particularly where the current level of technology is
relatively low, as is the case in Brazil's Northeastern and Legal Amazon
regions. Project impact studies carried out by EMBRAPA under the recently
completed Second Agricultural Research Project (Loan 2016-BR) suggest
economic rates of return to newly generated and adopted technologies of
between 40S and 43S.
3.37     Fiscal Imvact and Cost Recovery.  Although returns to investments
in agricultural research are generally difficult to quantify, past
investments have made significant contributions to the country's expanding
agricultural production (para. 3.36). Accordingly, the economic activities
generated by the proposed project are expected to provide the states in the
Northeastern and Amazon regions of Brazil with much-needed additional
fiscal revenues generated by the federal tax on the circulation of goods
(ICM) that would apply to the incremental marketable protuction and which
would be retained by the respective State Treasuries. In addition, by
improving the SCPA's administration and coordination in the Northeast, the
proposed project would contribute to increased public sector efficiency and
improved fiscal management in the long run.
3.38     Environmental Impact.  Major research programs funded under the
project have been designed in recognition of the importance of protecting
the country's natural resources and of preserving the world's genetic
resources (paras. 3.06-3.16). Work initiated under the previous Bank-
supported research projects to develop economically viable farming systems
that are compatible with the ecosystem would continue to be supported.
This would include crop research dealing with biological pest control and
integrated pest management; agro-forestry; land and genetic resource
inventories; and biotechnology research aimed at developing in crop species
tolerance to adverse natural conditions, including insect and disease
tolerance and resistance; establishing gene banks; and increasing the
efficiency of major crops in their utilization of phosphorus and nitrogen.
Consequently,the project would make a significant contribution to
furthering the scientific knowledge required for improved natural resource
and environmental protection within the context of sustained agricultural
development.
7/ Operations Evaluation Department Report No. 4604s The World Bank.
Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension. The World Bank
Experience. September 1, 1983.



- 26 -
3.39     Proiect Risks.  Optimum returns to research depend upon the degree
of coordination between research and extension at the state and field level
and the feed-back received from farmers. The proposed project would
strengthen the technology diffusion process and the linkages between
research, extension and the farmers. Research results can also be
nullified by unfavorable policy decisions affecting returns to farming.
However, other Bank-supported lending operations in the sector, ranging
from policy-based sector lending to regional rural development (NRDP and
Northwest Development Program), and operations in the irrigation subsector,
are designed as parts of a coherent strategy and effectively reduce this
type of risk. Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding from
the Federal Government could represent a major risk. The support which
agricultural research enjoys at the Federal and State level, together with
a sound annual planning and budgeting process, should help to mitigate this
risk.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     During negotiations, EMBRAPA provided assurances that it would:
(a) maintain within each of the major research units adequate staff
for the purposes of carrying out the technology transfer under the
project;
(bI create and maintain the positions of a Project Coordinator and two
Regional Research Coordinators in accordance with terms of
reference agreed to between EMBRAPA and the Bank and thereafter
appoint to and maintain in such positions Coordinators with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to EMBRAPA and the Bank
(para. 3.22);
(c) submit a draft consolidated Annual Operational Plan (PAT) of the
scope outlined in para. 3.24, and a proposed budget to the Bank
for its review and comment by November 30 of each year
(para 3.24);
(d) furnish to the Bank, as part of the Annual Operational Plan (PAT),
satisfactory evidence of ownership or long-term user rights to the
land where project-funded construction would take place
(para. 3.24);
(e) prepare and send to the Bank for review semi-annual progress
reporta with the contents and by the dates specified in
para. 3.25;
(f) send special evaluation studies prepared by DPL to the Bank for
its review and comment (para. 3.25);
(g) during the third year of the project and assisted by a team of
experts, it would arrange for a mid-term review of project
activities, project impact and priorities; organizational aspects,
including research planning and coordination; monitoring,
evaluation and technology dissemination systems, and the



- 27 -
effectiveness of feed-back mechanisms established under the
project; it would present the team's terms of reference to tha
Bank for approval by March 31, 1992; it would present the team's
report no later than September 30, 1992, and program adjustments
rrconmended in the report and agreed upon between EMBRAPA and the
Bank would be implemented thereafter by EMBRAPA (para. 3.25);
(h) cause participating entities to prepare and submit to EHBRAPA
semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.26);
Mi) contractual arrangements entered into between EMBRAPA and other
participating research-executing entities would be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; terms and conditions for
contractual arrangements with State research companies would
include annual work plans and would set out execution guidelines,
targets and procedures, including funding, reporting and
monitoring arrangements; the semi-annual progress reports prepared
by each of the entities would be included in EMBRAPA's semi-annual
progress reports to be sent to the Bank (para. 3.26);
(j) make available to each project-executing agency, funds in
accordance with the amounts and timetable specified in the
approved annual plan (PAT) (para. 3.29);
(k) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.30-3.33;
and
(1) ENBRAPA would provide assurances that vehicles and computer
equipment required by the project would be procured in a timely
manner (para 3.32).
4.02     During negotiations, the Federal Government and EMBRAPA provided
assurances thats (i) the Special Accounts and the project accounts would
be established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would include the
requirement that the auditors provide a separate opinion as to whether the
SOEs, together with the procedures involved in the preparation, support the
related withdrawals; and (iii) certified copies of the auditors' report
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 3.27); and (iv) monthly certified statements of the CESA and
FESA would be furnished to the Bank (para. 3.27(d)).
4.03     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:  (a) the minimum
number of twenty staff required for the technology transfer component has
been assigned within the various major research units benefitting from the
project 'para. 3.17); (b) contractual arrangements between EMBRAPA and
participating state research agencies, with terms and conditions agreed
with the Bank, would have been signed (para 3.26); (c) the Subsidiary
Agreement between the FederaL Government and EMBRAPA has been duly entered
into (para. 3.29); and (d) the Government would have provided evidence to
the Bank that the 1990 proposed federal budget provides for the funds
required by EMBRAPA to implement the 1990 consolidated research program
funded under the project (para. 3.29).



;                                              - 28 -
4.04     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$47.0 million equivalent
with a term of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
September 11, 1989



- 29-                                     ANNEX  1
Chart 1
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
D3BRAPA's Organizational Chart
H   PRES IDENT 
I I  II                I      I   I
Ir_H               |      ,,--  I
L. ' H° P R0l    - - A   1      j  L
.AL     I     Te' N    I  'A      ' I r -.
LJPT               I             HcPM
.~nEmATE  ~   D~T5~ATE                            I           R       I
I I I01cI         I0RH I   DI0 I            u          DTTj      1   I1   I        1   I  DIR raRAT
4-                                                  I 
|  ATIOWAL         RI|A            |TANl4>EL                      SUPPORTT  I    SIFItED 
.DINI -   DTC         I    I    I I         IU RIW    I      .        IOM.    S rI        q       '
, ., , 2 , sM               ayn       ,      BWAUE t,U                w              '.r  
{D I H|    |  ODAT C I   I ORHI   ID } Dl   INA PM Ul     I   DTTl  I   |  DF"1       I   l           D
._rJ~~~ .,.   I .I  CP.                  loxv   .,. cm%. "
.'~      n-CC        M I.C-      A .  I .  I ,                                 . '.P .m  I.
IcscIIcrfsI ICWICMII>| CCI| Ia~RI|IcE|IIvR|IIwcI ICxI ICFEII | ICP I 1cf|||w'] ICSTiII |CCFI  ICMWI |C I |CSOI law^ aI Io'II !AlI
*  12  |    *l I 04- OM*   * pl l_l lsl %  I I                 I III                    l'              l* 
I._                    -I .W
j4TWM         N     IWW-I      I r   5 TA1-Ef.  j       jWV~~               I   j      I  
I     I     I  CENI             I DuTII I                                IC
vm               -V      |    I                     | I    I           I |     -      |
I  OPS '      I  I     ew                   EH-I  I  0   SPSI   cs .    I  Wrx  I
IO'  OEYF   Q  | |    P         I |tU ISTA   R10 URNOD |I   
| OUS QS~          |A1  |       IDC~ST |         |    * 
IG'NC   OZ  I   I  GAISA  I    IIACDPA      T5        |
I~C OOG  SA I   '_-.-  '.      '-
|a. OFo4PED
|lOly af |
Iac OC VI
'. 



-30-                         ANNEX 1
Chart 1
Page 2 of 3
LEGEND:
AIRP      ASSESSORIA DE IMPRENSA E RELASOES P1OBLICAS
AJU       ASSESSORIA JURtDICA
AUD       ASSESSORIA DE AUDITORIA INTERNA
CAA       COORDENADORIA DE ACOMPANHAMENTO E AVALIA,AO
CAE       COORDENADORIA DE APOIO E EXPEDIENTE
CAM       COORDENADORIA DE ADHINISTRA,AO DE MATERIAIS
CAP       COORDENADORIA DE APOIO A PROGRAMA,AO DE PESQUISA
CAR       COORDENADORIA DE ADM'NISTRAQAO DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
CBE       COORDENADOR:.A DE BEM-ESTAR
CCF       COORDENADORIA CONTABIL E FISCAL
CCI       COORDENADORIA DE COOPERAq,AO INTERNACIONAL
CCM       COORDENADORIA DE COI4ERCIALIZA AO DE PUBLICA96ES
CCP       COORDENADORIA DE CONSULTAS E PARECERES
CCT       COORDENADORIA DE CONTENCIOSO
CDC       COORDENADORIA DE DOCUMENTA,AO TtCNICO-CIENTfFICA
CDO       COORDENADORIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ORGANIZACIONAL
CDR       COORDENADORIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
CDT       COORDENADORIA DE DIFUSAO DE TECNOLOGIA
CEA       COORDENADORIA DE ENGENHARIA E ARQUITETURA
CENARGEN  CENTRO NACIONAL DE RECURSOS GENtTICOS E BIOTECNOLOGIA
CFO       COORDENADORIA FINANCEIRA E DE EXECUgAO ORACAMENTARIA
CIC       COORDENADORIA DE INFORMA,AO TtCNICO-CIENTtFICA
CNPA      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE ALGODAO
CNPAI     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE AGRICULTURA IRRIGADA
CNPAF     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE ARROZ E FEIJAO
cNPCa     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE CAJff
CNPC      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE CAPRINOS
CNPCo     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE COCO
CNPDA     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE DEFESA DA AGRICULTURA
CNPF      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE FLORESTAS
CNPFT     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE FRUTEIRAS DE CLIMA TEMPERADO
CNPGC     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE GADO DE CORTE
CNPGL     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE GADO DE LEITE
CNPH      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE HORTALICAS
CNPMF     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE MANDIOCA E FRUTICULTURA
CNPMS     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE MILHO E SORGO
CNPO      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE OVINOS
CNPSo     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE SOJA
CNPSA     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE SUtNOS E AVES
CNPT      CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE TRIGO
CNPUV     CENTRO NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE UVA E VINHO
COR       COORDENADORIA DE OR,AMENTO
CPAC      CENTRO PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA DOS CERRADOS
CPAP      CENTRO DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA DO PANTANAL
CPATB     CENTRO DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA DE TERRAS BAIXAS DE CLIMA
TEMPERADO
CPATSA    CENTRO DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA DO TR6PICO SEMI-ARIDO
CPATU     CENTRO DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA DO TR6PICO OMIDO
CPE       COORDENADORIA DE PRODUCAO EDITORIAL
CPG       COORDENADORIA DE SERVI,OS E PRODUCAO GRAFICA
CPI       COORDENADORIA DE PROJETOS INTERNACIONAIS
CPN       COORDENADORIA DE PROJETOS NACIONAIS
CPS       COORDENADORIA DE PRODUCAO E SUPORTE
CSC       COORDENADORIA DE SISTEMAS DE COMPUTA,AO



- 31-                       ANNEX I
Chart 1
Page 3 of 3
CSG       COORDENADORIA DE SERVI9OS GERAIS DA SEDE
CST       COORDENADORIA DE PRESTAgAO DE SERVICOS TtCNICOS
';TM      CENTRO DE TECNOLOGIA AGROINDUSTRIAL DE ALIMENTOS
DFN       DEPARTAMENTO FINANCEIRO
DID       DEPARTAMENTO DE INFORMACAO E DOCUMENTAgAO
DIN       DEPARTAMENTO DE INFORMATICA
DPU       DIVISAO DE PUBLICA96ES
;          DRH       DIVISAO DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
DRM       DTVISAO DE RECURSOS MATERIAIS
DTC       DEPARTAMENTO TkCNICO-CIENTIFICO
DTT       DEPARTAMENTO DE DIFUSAO E TRANSFER2NCIA DE TECNOLOGIA
GPR       GABINETE DO PRESIDENTE
NTIA      NICLEO TECNOL6GICO PARA INFORM0TICA AGROPECUARIA
SNLCS     SFRVICO NACIONAL DE LEVANTAMENTO E CONSERVA,AO DE SOLOS
SPSB      SERVI,O DE PRODUgAO DE SEMENTES BASICAS
UAPDIA    UNIDADE DE APOIO A PESQUISA E AO DESENVOLVIMENTO DE
INSTRUMENTACAO AGROPECUARIA
UAPNPSA   UNIDADE DE APOIO AO PROGRAMA NACIONAL DE PESQUISA DE SAtiDE ANIMAL
UEPAE     UNIDADE DE EXECUgAO DE PESQUISA DE AMtITO ESTADUAL



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
sRZIL
T1M  AURICIUstAL RESEA         RJECT
ERDWA STAFF BY CATEOT BY LOCATIUN1/
C ATEGORY                                         LOCATION
Region                               H
North   Northeast   Center-West   South   Southeast        Swam U i.   Secondsd2/   Total
Res-erchers                 260        279          861         294       a8o            98          278       1,909
(176)     (803)        (282)       (260)      (294)         (146)       (70)      (1.529)
Junior (i) (BSc)
Senior (ii) (MSc)
Senior (ili) (Phd)
Research Assistanta         766        796         1,116        767        767           25          196       4,465
(402)     (674)        (746)       (689)      (681)         (62)          (9)     (8,808)
Aaministratlon              281        890         424          268        852          497          281       2,461
(171)     (816)        (816)       (211)      (801)         (546)       (40)      (1905)
Total                   1,807      1,464       1,901        1,867      1,460         615          700      8,628
(086)    (1,296)      (1,344)     (1,110)   (1,276)         (756)       (119)    (6,787)
X Distribution             16.0       16.6        21.6         16.5       10.6           7.0         7.0       100.0
(12.4)    (19.2)       (20.0)      (16.6)    (16.9)         (11.2)        (1.6)    (100.0)
1/  Source:  EMBRAPA.  Situation as  1 January 81, 1989.  Figures in parenthes   show the situation as of
January 81, 1961.
2/ EMURAPA staff *econded to other agncles (see Table 2 of Annex 2).



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
THI   AGRICULTUMAL RESEAlR  PROJCT
ERAA STAFF SECOIE  TO O0lE  AOSCIES
RECEIVINO AGENCY        RESEARCHERS      RESEARCH ASSISTANTS   ADMINISTRATION       TOTAL
NORTHEAST
EMCAPA (Capixaba)              8                    2                  1              11
EMEPA/PO (Paraiba)            15                   27                22               64
EIMPARN (Rio Orande/Norte)    19                   88                21               78
EPADA (Behl))                15                    7                 a               26
EPACE (C.ari)                 20                    2                 6               27
EPEAL (Alagoas)               14                   81                24               69
IPA (Pernambuco)              19                   16                11               40
Subtotal NE                       110                 119                87              815
LEGAL AMAZON
EMAPA (Maranhlo)               6                    -                                 12
EMOOPA (Golds)                 7                    6                 1               14
EUPA/MT (Mato Grosso)          2                    2                 1                6
Subtotal Lgal Amazon               16                   8                                 S i1
SOUTh
EUPASC (Sta. Catarlna)         9                    6                  2              17
IAPAR                          1                    -1
Subtotal South                     10                   0                  2              10
SOUTHEAST
EPAMIG (Mines Corals)         25                   16                 11              52
PESAGRO/RIO (Rio do Janolro)  17                   44                 23              84
PI/SP (SI. Paulo)               1                   -                  a               4
Subtotal SE                        4a                  60                  7             140
CENTER-WEST
EMPAER (Mato Grosso/Sul)        -                                      1               1
Universoltio                       10                                      1              11
MINAGRI                            41                   1                 40              62
Others                             44                   a                 66             102
GRAM TOTAL                   278                  196                231             700
Source: EIMRAPA. Situation as of February 1989.



-    .f           H  
ibQA.IL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EiBRAPA: SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS, 197a-1989
CZ21.00 (current)
IINCOME SOURCES                           I  1971 1980               1SS           198M           1987            1988            19890
|                                                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~-===G== =====-=…C_
II. Fedural Government                    I 1,107,645  4,698,161  609,183,637  1,671,178,383  6,630,386,300  41,088,343,000  163,262,569,00c
12. Special Projects                      1  334,601    414,727   22,740,880      33,709,388    110,584,639    642,436,000    1,800,000,00C
13. EMBRAPA Receipts (sales, etc.)        I   73,247    454,876   86,837,389    272,654,792    766,821,239   4,286,030,000   14,334,111,OOC
14. Other Contracts and Agree mnts t           98,733    937,969   13,964,56s   19,064,390       72,483,328   1,138,629,000      400,0O0,00t.
1t. Federal Operational
Credits (internal)                     I  439,948    770,860      --            --             1,608,000       --              --
Credits (external)                     I  106,653    866,262   83,564,464    168,024,684    346,268,460   5,197,193,000   41,072,369,00C
18. Balance from Previous Year's Operation I  109,096    165,091    3,898,862     50,463,804    226,543,870     579,318,000    6,639,711,00C
……--------- ---------  ----------   --------------   ---------       ---------  ---------------I
I    TOTAL INCOME/SOURCES                 I 2,268,922  8,297,716  820,160,568  2,115,105,341  7,063,674,726  62,931,949,000  229,so8,776,00c  I
IINVESTMENTS AND OTHER EXPENDITURES       I
I                                                                                                         __3==…===_____=_ _ -
1. Civil Works and Land Acquisition      I   74,878  1,045,410   38,079,806    114,360,610    436,360,813   4,036,474,000   15186,833,0OC
12. Equipment and Other Investments       I   76,892    306,339  37,87,0836    94,610,463   299,138,171   4,533,551,000   39,S77,664,00C  j
13. Operational Costs-Salaries              1,021,608  $,941,411  430,187,268    999,824,011  3,?72,087,021  23,779,829,000  113,671,080,00C  1
14. Other Operating Expense                   409,371  1,622,901  226,629,266    631,473,120  1,671,016,710   9,654,691,000   67,636,692,00t 1
IS. Transfers to State Companies              446,717  1,067,2   39,923,381    148,393,279    396,754,382   2,287,693,000    3,637,607,00C I
I                                         I ---------- ------ - -- ----- - -- -   ---- - --- - --- -------------  -----------  -- -------------  t
I    TOTAL EXPENDITURES/CATEGORY          I 2,028,366  8,003,823  769,706,733  1,888,661,473  6,474,368,097  44,292,239,000  229,608,776,0OC-
* PREVISAO EM NCaS 1.00
Source: EMBRAPA-SEP/CCR
9b|Z
i-rq
In
m >X
wt



*RUL
THIRD AtICILTRAL RESEARCH PROJECT
DIStRIITN OF RESEARC  PROWAS BY PROJECT REGON
AND  1PLMI   RESEARCN UUT
BENS              MAIZ
DAIRY                            AND               AND    OIL                       TROP.              BLAOC
RESEARCH UIT1/          CATTLE  COATS BUFFALO  RICE  COPEAS  CASSAVA  SORGHUM  PALM  RUBER  FORESTRY  FRUITS2/ COCONUTS PEPPER  CAHE   CO-ON
Amatgnia Roslon
CPATU                                  o              o        o         o      o      o        o          o 
aNSD                                                                            o      o
LEPABLEM              0                0       o      0        0         0      0            o o
U. AAUS                                0       o      o        o         o                                                    0
U. PTO. VELM                               0       0       0        0                  0                   0
U. KIO BRANCO         o                        o      o        o         0                                 0                  0
U. DA VISTA                                                                            o                  o
U. MACAPA                                      o      o        o         o             o                   o                  0                      U
N.E. Region
CPATSA                         o                      o        o         o                      o                                      o
NWA
aCWC                           0
CNCa                                                                                                                                   o
CrUL                  o
C rip                                                          o                                          o
U. TERESINA           o                        o      o        0         0
CIFAI
1/ For acronyms used, smm Glossary of Acronyms.
E/ Comprise citrus, banana, pineapple, mango, and native Aazonion species sich as guarand (Paullinia cupana),
cupuagI  (Theobroma grandiflorum), etc.                                                                                                    00
0a,



THIRD ACRICtLTURAL R£SEARM" PROJECT
DISTRDBTION  OF RESEARC0  PROWAMS BY PROJECT REGtON
AND IVALEMENTIN RESEA-C UNIT
BEAMS             -MAZE
DAIRY                             AND                AND    OIL                         TROP.               BLACK
RESEARCH UNIT'/          CATTLE  COATS  BUFFALO  RICE  COVPEAS  CASSAVA  SOROHUM  PALM  RBER  FORESTRY  FRUITS2/  COCONUTS  PEPPER  CASHEW  CC-TON
N.E. Region (Cont'd)
Stat. Owned Conp oies
EPABA (BA)                      o                o       o        °         °                                  o           o                          C
EWASI (SE)                      o                o       o        o         o                                  o           o                 oc
IEAL (AL)              o        o                        0        0         0                                  0           0 o               o
EEA (                  o        o                0       o        o         o                                  o              
IPA (PE)               o        o       o        o      o         o         o                                  o           o                 o'
EFACE (CE              o        o                o       o        o         o                                  o           o                 o  
EWARN (RN)             o   0            0            0       0         0                0                 0          0                       0        c
EMAPA (MA)             o 0          0            0       0        0         0              0         0         0           0        0        0
11  For acronyms used, mm Gloemary of Acronyms.
2/ Compris citrus, banona, pineapple, mango, and native Amazonion species such as guarani (Poullinis cupens),
cupuagou tThobrom  grandiflorum), etc.
.t N
0
0' I. 
N1



-37 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
hAlL
1H11 AZICULIAtAL hESSARO PI£JCT
*IS51WZ4TION OF fuSURCW SUPPUT FROMMR ST REKAW UNIT
RESEK103 UVPT PROWAM
$O(IL         FIT
AOIIUROUSR     CUUUVATIO   PROECTION AM D        IRGATION      BASIC
AM  FOOD        A   SOIL      SWUlWAL            l             Sim
kI _EAR  UNIT         SIO1ECULOGY    lECHOLOGY          BIOLOGY         IMACT          ORAIUGE      PROOCT=1/
CENAROEN                       S                                                                            o
CTAA                                                                                                        0
UAPWFBS                                                       5                               °
SNLCS                                                         5                               O
SpSa!/                                                                                                      8
Amazon Region
CPATU                     o               o              o               o                             o
CNPSD                     o               o              o
U. BELEI                                                                                               °
U. IANAUS                                 0              0                                             0
U. PTU. VELHO                                            0                                             0
U. RIO BRANCO                                            0                                             0
U. BOA VISTA                                             0 
U. UAAPA                                                 o                                             0
N.E. Reglon
CPATSA                    o               o              o                0                            0
CNPA
CNPOC                         --
ctwca                                     0              0
CNPIIF                    o               o              o 
CWGL
CI4PM                     o                              o                o       
OwAI                                                     0                0 
U. TERESINA                                              0                                             0
LEGEND:  8 a Headquarter *nd Coordinating Unit of the Program.                                            10-MAY-89
1/ Not funded under this projoct.



*BZA
7H120 A10L1IX*AL REGIC MR8JELr
OLIDOTIL FOR STATE REAV  COMANIE
FONTES DE FINANCIANENTO
s~~~~~~~~~~~.s ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ls iee.ii199.
E                                       1PRE8AS  *                              1 1                        X 9 8 9 *
5TADO    BiWA         PAW        tRA       ouimu      TrAL   j 1     TA40    8WA          PAPP     PROPRIA    OUTRAS      TOTAL
EWPA                   1.168,52    116.612     70,574     10,601     12,0i8   1.407,148 II   900.726    344,i28  1.,00,000        0    I14.000  2.881.354
- Pemoal              1 AI..790     49.796    25.96        7.456      2,164  1,220.209 li   ss6.2s6    22.728    6t0.000          0          0  1.773,m94
- Caaaioe                5,25244    59,240    2S,i2       38,41       7,841     m.20SS9 i    7.470     89,419    600.00o          0    134.000    6s3,26s
- I.g*4tiatg2 28,56                  7,774     17,457         0      2,621      SO.2=0 I!        0     25.981    250,000          0          0    275,981
II
AP                      219.511    260,76s     72,954     34,682     12.U9S    601.084 11   525.600  1,015.378    840.861    80,000     15.000  2,456.624
II
- Pommel                217,720    166l,86      7.085         0          0    441.291 ji   497.400    692873    423a76s           0          0  1. 6.S6
- Cuat.eioe               1.798     64.782     28.014     34,246     12.095    157.885 1 1    27.800   92,770    351.314     50,000               BU.00S "26.864
- Zn.om3,wto4                 0      7,467     11.658       436          0      19,726 II    10.400     80,220    58,762          0          0     96,892
OVAX                   o40.240    143.394           0     40.876    148,662    756.160 II 1,215,950    26,65u          0     52.6e3    180.000  1,713,264
- Poe                   416,24e8    1,6S4          0       4,6Y0        112    414.614 11 1,1M6.SW0    46,685          0      2,800          0  1.227,261
- Cua9 4io               11,000     97.S62         0      34 476        S0    148.068 11   is,150    16.000            0       .682%         0    Z1,978
- Invoetimmtos            1,000     12,178          0      1.60o    14S,500    178.478 j5    15,060    28.000          0     31.068    18.0oo    254.058
II
ESAt                  1.220,446    9s,872          0    140.000  1,090,S34  2,549,658 ,5 3,061.217    266,358          0    120,000  1.698.270  5,160.642
If
- P_mm1              1.102.146     86.62          0       3,200    597,178  1,711,468 5, 2 79".100    124.355         0      2.400  1,015.450  8,s92,305
- Cuo94s0' 62,000                   84,998         0    101,700    277.611    S28,204 I 1   268. 17    119,817         0     87.600    405,070    190.604
- I.w.at;mtee            56.100      6,018         0      26,000    215,548    311,866 I I   2,000     22,182          0     80.000    274,750    s2e.e93
II         -
EWSAM                   20o.s2     306,s82    162,147     44,945      5,207    719,706 1 1   57,000  1,118,949  1.111,000    26,000    179,000  2,992,949
- P_1mel                165,021    261,606     54.694         0          0    441,238 1    8S7,000    981,949    s78.006          0          0  2,066,986               w
- Cues..;                 1.404     94,778     938479     42.351     4.866    250,895 1 1        0    13,66    420,410       26,000     82,000    673,096               1D
- lavtiment                 S 89o    0.196     13,974      2.594       224      27.478 11        0     26,234    109.664          0     97.000    2s2.898
EPA8A                   70P,729    213,451    401,801      6,024        628  1,409,143 i  4,496010    748,006 40,484.456    26,69e     5.426 45,709,60
- ;OMMe                 629,901    118s,36    111,662      2,097       lo  1.062.28 MI  2, 62,126    866,006 39.379,994         0          0 42,616,126
- Cuato;Do               S7,84      78.295     686202      2,909       486    207,711 11. 1,897.9     130,8001   679,646 I5,696          5.426  2.239.196
- Irvustimnto.           20, 97     16.791    101,587        28         69    139,404 II  445,9t5      31.600    874,.28          0          0    6e2.263
EPACE                   66,u128    226.45   1U0.456           0          0  1.036.529 11 3.144.612    909,343    412.,92          0          0  4,366.847
- Poem"l                684,240    130,817     46,262         0          0      21, 819  j 2,513.322    620.a43        0          0          0  3,123,666
- CusS..                 29.8.6     67,723     43.137         0          0    1347:75 11   6811290    16 1000    114,.20          0          0    906,510
- Ift_o*Si 00t.          10.000     28,395    311,S7          0          0      69.452 11        0     28,000    298.172          0          0    226,172
EAL.                    117.005   254,6e9      84,320      .5.44      1,608    463.316 j1    21526"   9s2.996    305,00r-     7.200      2,226  1,444.047
- P_e1                 117,005    181.244    23,141          0          0    331.890 II  921.526    6s0,9s9    180,000           0          0  1.205.521
- Ca; aes                     0     64,923     24,412      5,5t44     1,6o0     96,6 87          0     65.66      90.000      7.200      2.826    16s.S94
- Invm4timntes                0      86472     26,767         0          0      as.269           0     2.12       80,co000        0          0 o8. 132
eVLfSE                   2S.365     16,507     24,444     ,56s6          0      6.86211   e00.000      59,000    221 199     50.000          o  1.280,199
- Pose"1                 10.402         0       4,726       749          0      15.907     606,000          0    110.280          0          0    71n,2o
- cu";es.                 7,19s      9,107      8.231      4,687         0      29,170 11   136,000      ,129     60.969          0          0    304,29
- Itw#ewlimaent7 5,768               6.400     11,487       lSO          0      26,806 1    10.000     26,671    110.000      Woo.0          0    210,671
rPA                     7M2,9sl    40>3.042    167,4!50   eo.0oo    61.259  1,514.000    3.241.a22  1,251,379    778.733    107.116  1.590,610  6,964,160
- P.4l                  74S 107    288,603     14,0o9      6,8a3     6,290    980.892 1i 2.972.947    959,879      s,9 1               67.065  4,015,372
- CueS.ia               s37,844   166049    101,480    26,955       6,2a8    400,56 11   268.375    267,662   s8S5628    100,000    314,657  1,626.37
- Ie,..t;_m.nSa.0                    6o89      71,939      4,222    48.731    =33,842 1         0     34,31t    172,129      7,116  1.206,918  1,422.461          4
TOTAL PESSOAL         5,212,91  1.101,537    527,s38    26,057    605,844  7,472,566 I14,69.477  5,213,779 41,848.006         5,200  1.082,605 62,542,967
_ - - _ - _ _ - - - - l l _ -______                                                               ____   --_ .29 
TOTAL CO6TE0S           244.222    807,412    399,076    297,961    3109,62  2.0S9.688 11 2.01,126   1.219,851  2,9=2.212    814,328    9U,459  8.325,673
TOTAL M43TIMI7T6         2,725    131.061    286,041      44,320    411,003    995.172 It  462.358    270.49  1,420.452    11e,674  1,760.668  4.053.001
T 0 T A               5.579,840  2,040,030  1,212.64    367,33   1.327,824  10,527,891  1 18.175.961  6.606.679 46,700,670    437,697   ,799.632  74,919,64
*   - Es Cst 1.000.00                                                                                                             Saute.  ClSEw, BIWPA.
Es W.Et"z   1.00



-39 -                                              ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
Uiemm. Prerm  w. Obeff is at Reearcli Utim Ffttlalmtlm ie  one ProImot1I
GRIW OMMI"IONOF MAR                   .0; Km                         MOAL
AOiRflII    tWM O  STlATWI         ULCATI   PDJKT ATW  RE3EAROD       3  t A         PM0  NiS #    SUPPT   WNVS TIRtWI   STAFF
H                MI~~Atltl  Tle Iiid  Troelee
CPATU      Regiownl Canter        Golda. PA   a) Evaluation of the natural and        S   50   27       267             90         442
for Agricultural                      soclo-ecanomie resourcee of
RMaeach in tth                        the areas
liid Tropte.                       b) Study of methods to apply
reource. to *Gicultura
c) Lvei1opaani. of forming system
based on *) and b) above-
4) Spal *o  haI* on: bufflo,
rice. cope  , cea     . miso.
oipolm. rubber, black peppr,
and tropical fruits in farming
CMPSD2/    Wationt l Canter for    onaue. AN  a) Crop productior reaerch on           S   25U    9        4             46         170
Rubber an  Oil IPlm                   rubber and otl palm:
Reaearch                           b) Broader interest In pernmial
an tree-crop species for
Amcgn Ia.
IEPAC-PA   State Rearch           Salda. PA   a) Adaptive reearch on forming          8   22   10       106             So         177
Center                                ayeoem  beaud on:
b) Dairy cattle, buffalo, rIeC.
coapae,caeavamica,
ollpal. tropical frult. and
blaek peppbr.
UEPAE-A4   State Reaarch          Hwau", AN  a) Adaptive reaareh on farming           1   18    9       11i             29         168
Canter                                      m including:
b) Bufl.rice. baanajcoampeaa
caminava. mize, tropical fruit.
and blea pepper.
UEPAES-R   State Research         Pto. VIbeo, a) Adaptive reaerch on farming          -   17   11        t7             27         142
Center                   t            eyetem for the agricultural
frontier based upon:
b) Dairy cattle. buffalo, rice.
beanei/coepoeae neace, tropical
fruit., and paatures.
UEAE-AC   Stte Rehrc              Rio brsnco, a) Adapti.e reearch on farmine               10    1       62             28         109
Canter                   AC           meytem for tho  grieu ltural
frontier bma"d upon:
b) Dairy cattle, rice, boons/
coepoea    mie, rubber
tropical fruitt, black
PepePPr, and pOaturea.
UEPAT-It   Territorlml  B-          a Vista.  a) Adaptive rerch on production    -   16    7             22             11          S6
Raaearch Statil.         ap           Program  for the region baaed
uplon:
b) Pastures. rubber, tropical
fruIto.
UIEAT-AP   Territoriel             batpjd  AP  a) Adaptlva researcht   n production    -    J   18       25             11          59
Rreeereh Station                      Program  for th  region beed
b) Ric, beane/coepoea, cameva.
m_I    rubber, and tropical
frul Ie
idRl)EAST:  sei-Arid Tromic-
CPATSA     Reional Canter         Petrolfna,  a  As for CPATU above;                 10   40    2       248             92         428
for Agricultural         PE        b  Am for CPAiU above:
Reatarch In the                    c) Deelopmnt of forming system
Seal-Arld Tropics                     b=aadon  ) and b) ebove andf
includinc the fol eoing crops/
d) Ooat. and sheep, rice (irrigated).
beans/copmap, coa. r ioeI
eorghum tropical fruU6it.a,irig.
Vegtabi e, and wood production.
OPA        National Reaerch       Campina      a) Crop production research on         7   24    9        78             57         175
Center for Cotten        Orantd.      cotton  (nnual and tree
Fe           cotton5.
ab) ttional comdity reaerch
OCC        National Remeereh      Subral, CE      Animl production research for       4   15    S        79             s8         142
Center for Sets                       g*oand related posture work
CNa        Iutional Reearch       Forteleca,      Crop production and induotrial      7   17    2         8             14          48
Canter for Cmea          CE            (by-product) reearch on
Oki                                   cashiew nuts..
OCN         Nabional Research     AreaciJ. SE    Crop production and industrial       2   24    2        a8             as         148
Center for Coconut                     (by-product) research on
coconut. and *a-ocistd crps.
OarL       Ntional Research       Col. Pehac.  Dairy production for both             2t  as    8        255             82         408
Cent.. to, Dairy           i          dairy and dual purpose breeds.
Cattle           A~inhmlr,9



-40 -                                              ANEX2
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Thl  ALTUUL            iSt AL
iave*ch P m          d Sffin   at Reasonh b      Sa  t  Priletlmm In VW PMl ct,
bRIMF OSRIPTIrliN OF 4AJONR                     iTLMICAL                       TOTAL
ACRONYM      NME OF STATION        LOCATION   PROJMT-REATED RESEARCH PROWAWS   PhD   MS   85    SUPPORT    AlMJNISTPATION   STAFF
PCNPW      Nationst R*search      Cruz das    *) Production system. research or       -   48    8       131            70          249
Center fir Cawsva        Al-a,        caemve and fruitcrop-
and Frultcrops           bA           (pineapple, banana, cit ,
mango).
CNPAI      National Research      Pornarba,   a) Research on irrigation and           2   18    7        64            45          135
Center for               PI           draneage *y-tem* and
Irrigated                             techniques for the range of
AgrIculture                           conditions found in agriculture
Agriculture                 ~~~and the training of research/
extenslon staff in thle area.
UEPAE-PI  State Unit Research   Teresina,   a) Adaptive research on f!rming           4   19    3        69            39          134
Center                   PI            yey  in the area using the
following crope/1Ivestoc,x
b) Dairy cattle, rice, beans/
cosPeas, cmsve. maizeo/sorchum
and cotton.
C84AR08I   <enetic Research       Bras0Fla,  mb  Cellular and molecular biology;   16   23   tt          38            42          130
and Oiotechnology        OF        b) Maintanunce of gene-banks of
Center                                v-lusb1e pl nt and animal
&enetic materials;
c) Uene transfer and embryo
transfer oxperi ents:
aicropropagst;on, etc.;
d) Biological control of pests and
diseae-,
e) In rslstioh to (a-d) above
experiments include ...)rk on.
beans, caseava. olp a, carrots,
co' peas, and rare native cattle
%:oles (preservation of genetic
arecterietics).
CTAA       Center for Agro-       Ouratiba,   a) R esarch on processing of:          12   13   13        26            26           95
Industry and Food       Rio do        natural dyes and additives,
Tochnology               Jan.iro,     grains, flours, sterchest
RJ           legus, vegetables, fruits;
.,) Economic etudieas for agro-
Industry and mrketing of
processed foods.
UAPNMPBS    Support Unit for      Km. 47,      a) Research on the microbiology and  10    7    1         34            14           66
the Soil Hicro-         Rio do        micromorphology of soils
biology Program          Janeiro,  b) Study of nitrogen fixing
RJ           bacteria and its appli'ton to:
c) Bean production; postures, suar
cane, forest tree culture, an
vegetable production;
d) Reaction of soils under
irrigation practices.
SNLCS      Service for Soil       Jordla       a) Soil analysis and edaphoclimetic  12   44   12         58            55          178
Analysis,                BotAnico,    zoning
Conservation and         Rio do    b) Soil cieswification and
Agro-Ecologlcal          Janeiro,     productivity Indexing by crop;
Surveys and              RJ        c) Identification qzi soils for
Mapping                               irrigated zones;
d) MHseurement of soil loss due to
eroeion and testing of
conservatIon measures;
*) Elvalation of natural resources;
f Preparation of maps for soil,
natural resource surveys.
CNPDA      National Research      Jaguarinhe  a) Protection of Eco-syetems;          16   29    3        10            17           7S
Center for Plant       (Campinsa), b) BSologeaei   control methods for
Protection               SP           farm-crop peat. and diseases;
c) Rational use of insecticides
and pesticides;
d) Effect of agro-chemicsle on
thd   environmnt and Iegislative
date gathering for control
mesures.
L' Thss 5r- tha min stations/unite executing project-related research programs.
J  The national research centers (CNPs) for comodity research also serve as tho coordinating units 'or tha  notional research
program for that/those particuiar co odity(;e-).



-41 -                         ANNEX 3
BRAIL
TRIRD AGRICUTA  RESEARCH PROJEtC
Project Coponents by Year
(US Millions)
Base Costs
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994        Total
A. TECHNOBLOY GEERATION
1. ANAZON REGION               2.05    5.37    6.21    5.77    2.61        22.03
2. NORTHEASI REGION            2.76    6.24      S.86    5.21     2.48     22.56
3. OTHER REGIONS               0.12     0.23    0.30    0.16    0.15        0.95
Subtotal TECHNOLOGY GNERATION    4.91    11.84   12.38   11.15    5.24        45.54
B. RESEARCH SUPPORI               2.93    7.53    8.40    5.14    2.54        26.54
C. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
1. NZON REGION                 0.30    0.44    0.31    0.24    0.19         1.48
2. NORTHEAST REGION            0.21     0.41    0.33    0.26    0.20        1.40
3. OTHER REGIONS               0.06     0.08    0.17    0.09    0.05        0.45
Subtotal TECHNOLOGY TRAMER        0.57    0.93    0.80    0.59    0.44         3.34
0. PROJECT IMPA$T ASSESSENT       0.52    0.67    0,72    0.67    0.56         3.15
AND SPECIAL STUDIES
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIET       0.30     0.90    1.00    0.83    0.55        3.58
lotal BASELINE COSTS              9.25    21.87   23.30   18.37    9.35       92.14
Physical Contingencies         0.29     0.94    1.04    0.78    0.19        3.25
Price Contingencies            0.50    2.24    3.55    3.77    2.37        12.43
Total PROJECT COSTS              10.04   25.05   27.89   22.93   11.91        97.82
laxes                          0.64     1.34    1.37    1.04    0.72        5.12
Foreign Exchange               5.16    12.18   13.38   10.52    5.71       46.95
Totals may not add due to rounding



-42 -                     ANNEX 4 (a)
BAZIL
THIRD ARICULTtJRAL RSEARCH PROJECT
Phased Project Cost Smuary by Expenditure Category
(USS willion)
Same Costs                   Total
1990    1991    1932    1933    1994  USS M1lions
1. INVESTMENT COS7S
A. CIVIL MORKS                              1.12    5.62    6.53    5.48    0.87         19.63
B. EQUIPMENT S FURNITURE
1. FARR MACHINERY S EQUIPMT             0.98     2.19     2.2?     1.34    0.49        7.27
2. FURNITURE I LABORATORY EQUIPMENT      1.73    4.50    4.48    2.40      0.65       13.76
Subtotal EQUIPMEIT S FURNITURE             2.72     6.69     6.74    3.74     1.15       21.03
C. RESEARCH S BEEDING ANIMALS              0.07    0.45    0.28    0.20    0.06           1.06
D. TRAININ6
1. LOCAL TRAINING                       0.82     1.40    1.49    1.27    0.86          5.85
2. FOREIGN TRAINING                      1.33    2.37    2.41      1.96    1.06        9.13
Subtotal TRAINING                          2.15    3.77    3.91    3.23    1.92          14.97
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           0.54     1.04    1.11    0.96    0.62          4.28
2. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          0.49    1.42    1.33    0.95    0.63          4.82
Subtotal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               1.02    2.47    2.44    1.91    1.25          9.09
r. BOOKS AND PERIODICALS                   0.88    0.95      0.95    0.92    0.93         4.63
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        7.96    19.94   20.85   15.48    6.19         70.42
IL.RECURRENT COSTS
A. INPUTS AND CONSUMMABLES                  1.19    1.52    1.55    1.53       1.49       7.27
B. MAINTENANCE                             0.00    0.22    0.71    1.16        1.47       3.56
C. AUDIO VISUAL AIDS S MATERIALS           0.10    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20           0.89
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         1.29    1.93    2.46    2.89    3.16          11.72
Total BASELINE COSTS                          9.25   21.87   23.30    18.37    9.35         82.14
Physical Contingencies                     0.29     0.94     1.04    0.78      0.19       3.25
Price Contingencies                        0.50     2.24     3.5;    3.77    2.37        12.43
Total PROJECT COSTS                          10.04   25.05   27.89   22.92    11.91         97.81
Totals nay not add due to rounding.



-43 -                                          ANNEX 4 (b)
1A2L
MeW MICULnTL 7CNo MCY
-wy A         bI projct Ct",nt
(05 3|11.)
"MCI
TECHW  CEUtJI                          TENILtOSl T UEDR                        IWT                    yical
ASUJSIITCnanece
Z01   lOTIEAST   OT,i   REV"    iMZ             WRTEW      06    INSTIUT1IOP    I SPECIAL-
RE61O    REG1ON    REG61015    IIS SP    61ORT6ION    RE6WO    RECIONS   DE5LIEKI    SDIES     Total     I   aount
1. IUIESTIT CGTS
A. CIVIL VKS                          6.70      5.94      0.07     1.02      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00        0.00     19.63     10    1.96
B. EPJIPII t F    ETI
1. FAU ItKHlIY I EQUIPIET          2.39      1.66      0.02      2.44     0.33      0.21      0.1S         0.02        0.05      7.27      5    0.35
2. FtINII   I 1093071 EUIJ1PlW     2.78      4.25      0.11      6.4'     0.09      0.05      0.03         0.02         0.00     13.76     5    0.69
Subtatal EIIPU    I P13M7M3RE         s.A       s.91      0.13     9.98      0.42      0.25      0.18         0.04        0.05     21.03      5    1.05
C. R8EaC. IAinED   CINALS             0.48      0.4S      0.00     0.07      0.00      0.06      0.00         0.00        0.00      1.06      0    0.00
0. T113116
1. UIL TRU1186                     1.43      1.26      0.04     0.94      0.22      0.25      0.02         I.SS        0.13      5.95      0    0.00
2. FP6136 T1RAININ                 2.00      3.11      0.15      2.19     0.W       0.13      0.00         1.05         0.61     9.13      0    0.00
5u*it4bl MINING                       3.43      4.37      0.19     3.13      0.31      0.38      0.02         2.60        0.54     14.97      0    0.00
E. IECHtC.L MOSSTMaC
1,tCLC  tECN11ttRL U0  I8SIlE      0.40      0.25      0.00     0.51      0.05      0.07      0.00         0.71        1.89      4.29      0    0.00
2. fPNl1W YECNIICaL ASSTSMIE       1.09      1.40      0.00      1.66     0.00      0.00      0.00         0.12        0.55      4.82      0    0.00
mbotal TECHNICAL. P913StR5            1.49      1.64     0.00      2.57      0.05      0.07     0.00          0.83        2.4       9.09      0    0.00
F. E8 N !D tR0*S                      1.32      1.60     0.15      1.04      0.00      0.00     0.00          0.06        0.06      4.63      5    0.23
tal iIIESTiI   COSTS                    18.58     19.82     0.54     23.11      0.78     0.76      0.20         3.53         3.09     70.42      5    3.25
II.RECURREKT COSTS
A. DM3t1 MU CtOlLES                   2.'7      1.67      0.40     1.9       0.3       0.23     0.09          0.05        0.05      7.27      0    0.00
8. MINIEUICI                          0.97      1.07     0.02      1.41      0.05      0.03     0.01          0.00        0.00      3 cS      0    0.00
C. AUD10 15tlRL 1IOS I KRItLS       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.05      0.32      0.38     0.14          0.00        0.00      0..       0    0.00
Total iECi1RW Ca;s                       3.44     2.73      0.41      3.43      0.71     0.64      0.24         0.06         0.05     11.72      0    0.;e
Total 6RSELKE COSTS                     22.03    22.5f      0.95     26.54      1.4U     1.40      0.45          3.58        3.15     82.14      4    3.25
Plys3cal Continrencies                0.99      0.96      0.02     1.22      0.07      0.01      0.01         0.00        0.01      3.25
Price Contingencies                   3.48      3.39      0.14     3.92      0.20      0.20      0.07         0.55        0.47     12.43      4    0.46
to0AL PfECt COStS                       26.50    26.91      1.12     31.68      1.71      3.62     0.52          4.14        3.62     97.82      4       I.71
lam                                   1.62      1.5S1    0.08      1.48      0.17      0.15     O."'          0.01        0.02      5.12
Foreipn Exdne                        11.48     13.58      0.58     15.59     0.61      0.$5      O.:,         '.00        1.41     46.95
Totals ay not add due to rounding



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Schedule of Proposed Civil Works
Technology Generation                       P R O J E C T   Y EA  R
REGION                        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
AMAZONIA
CPATU
Laboratories                50    250    250    200                       750  m2
Headhouse                         i50    150    150                       450  m2
Covered Sheds              250    500    250                             1000  m2
Screenhouses                              300    300    150               750  m2
Land Drainage               30                                             30  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in ml        300    900    950    650    150        0      2950  mz
CNPSD
Laboratories                              210    490                      700  mz
Rural Staff Housing                       600   1400                     2000  ml
Poads                                      47    100                      147  Lump Sum
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                              30     50                       80  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in m2          0       0    810   1890       0      0      2700  m2
UEPAE/BELEM
Administrative Building                   300    500    450              1250  m2
Area Subtotal in mt          0       0    300    500    450       0      1250  ml
UEPAE/MANAUS
Field Office/Laboratory            25                                      25  m2
Covered Sheds                     430                                     430  ma
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                       12       4                              16  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in mz          0    455       0      0       0      0       455  m2



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
Techeology Generation                       P R O J E C T   Y E A R
REGION                         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
UEPAE/PORTO VELHO
Administrative Building   100    300                                       400  m'
Field Office/Laboratory            100                                     100  ml
Covered Sheds                      100    100                              200  mt
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                  200                                      200  ml
Rural Staff Housing                100    100                              200  m2
Internal Roads                      10     10      10                       30  Lump Sum
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                20       6                                      26  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in mg        100    800   200         0      0       0      1100  ma
UEPAE/RIO BRANCO
Covered Sheds                             100                              100  ml
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                          223                              223  ml
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                 6      40     27                               73  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in mz           0      0    323       0      0       0       323
UEPAT/MACAPA
Covered Sheds                             100                              100  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.           200    401    134                               735  m2
Area Subtotal in ma        200    401    234                               835  ml
UEPAT/BOA VISTA
Library                            120    240                              360  mz
Field Office/Laboratory                    52                               52  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                          450    600    450               1500  Mt
Headhouse                                 240                              240  m2
Plastic Houses                            400    400                       800  m2
Electrical Distribution             35                                      35  Lump Sum
Well and Water Storage
Tank                              41                                      41  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in m2           0    120   1382   1000    450        0      2952  ml



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
Technology Generation                       P R O J E C T   Y E A R
REGION                        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
Total Civil Works Area
Technology Generation
Amazonia Region          600   2676   4199   4040   1050         0     12565  mt
NORTHEAST
CPATSA
Laboratories                       200     20    100                       420  m2
Restaurant                         100                                     100  ml
Field Office/Laboratory            100    350    250      60               760  m2
Covered Sheds              175            175                              350  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                           50    150                       200  m2
Rural Staff Houses          70                                              70  m2
Plastic Houses                                    100                      100  m2
Headhouse                                          50                       50  ml
Area Subtotal in m2        245    400    695    65C       60       0      2050  m2
CNPA
Laboratories                      1500                                    1500  m2
Covered Sheds                       67                                      67  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                   67                                       67  mz
Screenhouses                              200                              200  m2
Area Subtotal in ml           0   1634    200       0      0       0      1834  m2
CNPC
Laboratories                        38    155    1SS      67               415  M2
Offices                             20     40      20                       80  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                  150                                      150  M2
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                                7       7      8                22  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in ml          0    208    195    175       67       0       645  M2



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
Technology Generation                       P R O J E C T   Y E A R
REGION                         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
CN4PCa
Laboratories                              500    330                       830  m2
Auditorium                                 83      67                      150  ml
Offices                                   500    360    251               1111  ml
Library                                           200    100               300  mt
Area Subtotal in M2          0       0   1083    957    351        0      2391  m2
CNPCo
Laboratories                                      200                      200  m2
Auditorium                                        300                      300  m2
Rural Staff Housing                               7j0                      700  m2
Plastic Houses             100                                             100  m2
Area Subtotal in m2        100       0      0   1200       0       0      1300  m2
CNPGL
Laboratories                80                                              80  m2
Offices                            125                                     125  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                  300      70                              370  m2
Rural Staff Housing         60                                              60  m2
Fencing                      5                                               5  Lump Sum
Penovation of Existing
Facilities                10      10                                      20  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in m2        140    425      70       0      0       0       635  m2
CNPMF
Laboratories                              100    100                       200  m2
Screenhouses                              150    150                       300  m2
Irrigation System                                  50     50               100  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in ml           0    425    170    100       0       0       500  m2
UEPAE/TERESINA
Covered Sheds                       96                                      96  m2
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                 6      12      6       6      6                36  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in ml          0      96      0       0      0       0        96  mi



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
Technology Generation                      P R 0 J E C T   Y E A R
REGION                        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
Total Civil Works Area
Technology Generation
Northeast Region         485   3188   2413   3082    478       0      9451  m2
CENTRAL
CNPF
Laboratories                             100                              100  m2
Area Subtotal in m2          0      0    100       0      0      0        100  m2
Total Civil Works Area
Technology Generation
Amazonia Region            0      0    100       0      0      0        100  m2
Total Civil Works Area
for Technology
Generation              1085   5864   6712   7122   1528       0     22116  mz



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
Research Support                            P R OJ E C T   Y E A R
REGION                        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
CENTRAL
CENARGEN
Laboratories                     1333   1167                             2500  m2
Offices                           300                                     300  mg
Field Office/Laboratory                   125                             125  m2
Electrical Installations   80                                              80  ml
Area Subtotal in m2          0   1633   1292       0       0      0      2925  ml
CTAM
Laboratories                              500    15%,                     650  m2
Pilot Plants                              450    450                      900  ms
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.           150    300    150                              600 mi
Renovation of Existing
Facilities               100     58                                     158  m2
Area Subtotal in ml        150    300   1100    600        0      0      2150  m2
UAPNPBS
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                      150                                     150  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in m:          0      0       0      0      0       0         0 m2
SNLCS-SEDE
Auditorium                        200    200                              400  m2
Library                           300    300                              600  m2
Area Subtotal in m2          0    500    500       0      0       0      1000  mi
CNPDA
Laboratories                      419            492                      911  m2
Auditorium                                180    270                      450  m2
Covered Sheds                             250                             250  m2
Screenhouses                92             58    180                      330  m2
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                                       7                       7. Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in ml         92    419    488    942       0       0      1941  m2



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Research Support                             P R o J E C T   Y Z A R
REGION                         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
CNPAI
Field Office/Laboratory             100    240                               340  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                           150    400                        550  m2
Plant Growth Chamber                        32                                32  mz
Screenhouses                        240                                      240  m2
Internal Gravel Roads       187                                              187  Lump Sum
Water Storage Tank                   50     50                               100  Lump Sum
Electric.Distrib. with
Substation                170                                              170  Lump Sum
Area Subtotal in mz           0    3,40    422    400        0      0       1162  m2
Total Civil Works Area
Research Support
Central Region            242   3342   3802   1942        0       0       9328  m2
AMAZONIA
SNLCS-BELEM
Laboratories                         40                                       40  m2
Offices                             200    225                               425  m2
Library                                    160                               160  m2
Field Office/Laboratory              45                                       45  ma
Covered Sheds                              250                               250  ma
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                           160                               160  m2
Area Subtotal in m2           0    285    795        0       0      0       1080  ml
Total Civil Works Area
Research Support
Amazonia Region             0    285    795        0      0               1080  ma



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
Research Support                            P R O J E C T   Y E A R
REGION                        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    TOTALS
NORTHEAST
SNCLS-RECIFE
Laboratories                       40                                      40  mz
Offices                           200    225                              425  mz
Library                                   160                             160  m2
Covered Sheds                             100                             100  m2
Garage/Warehouse
/Storage, etc.                         150                              150
Area Subtotal in m2          0    240    635       0       0      0       875  M2
Total Civil Wo;ks Area
Research Support
Northeast Region           0    240    635       0       0      0       875  M2
Total Civil Works Area
for Research Support    242   3867   5232   1942        0       0     11283  m2
Total Area of All Civil
Works Proposed for
This Project            1327   9731  11944   9064   1528        0     33399  M2
OHv*dSlul j>:g



- 52 -                           ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(USS Million)
Bank                            Disbursed    Cumulative                          Balance
Fiscal           Quarter          Ouring        Disbursed          s                of
Year            Ending           Quarter        Amount       of Total             Loan
1990           Mar 31, 1990         4.8             4.81          10                42.2
Jun 30, 1990         0.5            6.3            11                41.7
1991           Sep 30, 1990         0.8            6.1            1s                40.9
Doc 31, 1990         1.2            7.8            16                39.7
Mar 31, 1991         1.6            8.9            19                38.1
Jun 30, 1991         2.1           11.0           23                 36.0
1992           Sep a0, 1991         2.8            13.8           29                33.2
Dec 31, 1991         3.2           17.0           a3                 30.0
Mar 31, 1992         3.4           20.4            43                26.8
Jun 30, 1992         3.6           28.9           61                 23.1
1993           Sep 30, 1992         3.6            27.6           69                19.5
Dec 31, 1992         3.4           30.9           66                 16.1
Mar 31, 1993         3.2           34.1            73                12.9
Jun 30, 1993         2.8           36.9           79                 10.1
1994           Sep 30, 1993         2.6           39.4            84                 7.6
Dec 31, 1993         2.0           41.4            88                 6.6
Mar 31, 1994         1.6           48.0            91                 4.0
Jun 30, 1994         1.3           44.3           94                  2.7
1996           Sep 30, 1994         1.1           46.4            97                 1.6
Dec 31, 1994         0.9           46.3            99                 0.7
Mar 31, 1995         0.7           47.0          100                  0.0
1/   Includes Special Account deposit of US24.0 million.



- 53-                     ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A.       Background and Preparation Documents
A.1      I Plano Diretor da EMBRAPA 1988-1992.  Empresa Brasileira de
Pesquisa Agropecuaria - EMBRAPA, 1988. EMBRAPA-SEP, Documentos,
36.
A.2      PRONAPA, 1987.  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria -
EMBRAPA/DPP, 1987.
A.3      Relat6rio de Atividades, Ano 15 - EMBRAPA, 1987.
A.4      III Projeto de Pesquisa Agropecudria, BIRD III.  Acordo
EMBRAPA/BIRD - Marqo 1988.
A.5      III Projeto de Pesquisa Agropecuaria, BIRD III.  Acordo
EMBRAPA/BIRD (2 Volumes) - Janeiro 1989.
B.       Staff Working Papers
B.1      Agricultural Research Services
B.2      Cashew
B.3      Cassava
B.4      Tropical Fruit
B.5      Goats
B.6      Buffalo
B.7      Coconut
B.8      Rubber
B.9      Oilpalm
B.10     Cotton
B.ll     Dairy Cattle
B.12     Forestry
B.13     Humid Tropics (CPATU)
B.14     Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA)
B.15     Note on Biotechnology Research in Brazil
B.16     Technology Transfer
B.17     Project Cost Estimates
B.18     Civil Works
C.       Miscellaneous
C.1      Lei Nr. 5.173 de 27 de outubro de 1966 ("legal Amazon's"
boundaries defined in Article 2 of this law).
C.2      Forga de Trabalho das Empresas Estaduais 1988.  1988 Staff by
Category, of State Research Companies.



-54 -                       ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
C.3      (i) Contrato entre EMBRAPA e a Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecu6ria de
Sergipe SIA - EMPEASE.
(ii) ConvGnio entre Ministerio de Agr'-ultura EMBRAPA, e o Governo
do Estado de Sergipe/Secretaria da Agricultura do referido
Estado.
(iii) Regulamento Geral da Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuarie de
Sergipe - EMPEASE.
C.4      The Status of Agricultural and Forestry Research.  August 29,
1986. Consultants Final Report by Norman Borlaug and Frank
Zillinsky (LACAB).
C.5      Propuesta de Prestamos para un Programa de Desarrollo de la
Investigaci6n Agropecuaria para la Regi6n Centro-Sur - Brasil.
documento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. Mayo 1984.
C.6      Boletim de Comunicacoes Administrativas, EMBRAPA - Ano xv, No. 032
- 1988.



3 21i
lo     (VE NE ZU E LA .r    e,               (flRENCH 
s-_   as    ZSRINMEGUAg
C O L O MB I A        .,  M .RORAIIAA (      \9-s                      AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH m PROJECT
7-i            -t       ; .w*'              <    AAA"                LOCATION OF RESEARCH STATIONS
-01L)>               \r2 \g           
_t1                             .D\4                   '       RMgb
l~~~~    M A;                                                                     00 ~-   __,       /
.  {  B O L I V I A             f    Goionio  S       >            rR /~~P  A U 
k  J.Js  /t < ><_< *- - &zSvsaO S /~~~0
RU A/w         M*->    Af *>PR G To8d _1 85                                              H 01*N # IR     A 
CHILEy              \t~Vdsn -6                                             Cruz d b i o    r
(                 .  ,'          P A~ R  A NZ do 0T G04AS
( . ) t._ G~~~Curir'3 Q F.D.ATRNAOACAIA
l / / **_ _ 5 ~~~~~~~~~~RAIL 4.jKfCHlReCETR
.  :                                                  A4-p Grn,-t _. )                        ES *S-.NOTOWN
.~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :: ,'  Avvo  a SV ;
. { ¢n soHLE                                                       wa o!  6                    g r 3
w_\. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~PQ I    s  1iN ,



