Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3130-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA
Dated January 10, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3130-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA 
(hereinafter referred to as
EMBRAPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank,  the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-seven million 
dollars ($47,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that EMBRAPA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by means of the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower ant EMBRAPA,  the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Subsidiary 
Agreement will be made available to EMBRAPA; and
WHEREAS EMBRAPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  EMBRAPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with the
participation of the Participating Entities with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, engineering, 
agricultural and scientific
research policies standards and practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services  and other resources required for 
the Project, in accordance with the amounts and timetable specified in the 
Consolidated PAT approved by EMBRAPA.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  EMBRAPA shall carry out,  and cause the Participating Entities to 
carry out pursuant to the Contractual Arrangements, and,  if necessary, Other 
Contractu.al Arrangements,
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and 
schedules,  records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) with 
respect to the Project.
Section 2.04.  EMBRAPA shall enter into:
(a)
a Contractual Arrangement to carry out a Part or Parts of the Project, 
which shall include the terms and conditions set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
with each of the following State Research Agencies, or any succeeding entity thereto:
(i)
EPABA - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia, S.A.;
 
(ii)
EPACE - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Ceara;
 
(iii)
EMAPA  -  Empresa Maranhense de Pesquisa Agropecuaria;
 
(iv)
EMEPA - Empresa Estadual de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Paraiba, 
S.A.;
(v)
IPA  -  Empresa Pernambucana de Pesquisa Agropecuaria;
 
(vi)
EMPARN - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Rio Grande do Norte;
 
(vii)
EMPEASE - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Sergipe;
 
(viii) EPEAL - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Alagoas, and
 
(ix)
EMPA - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Estado de Mato Grosso.
 
(b)
EMBRAPA shall enter into an Other Contractual Arrangement on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank with such other Participating Entity as EMBRAPA 
Page  3
and the Bank shall agree
from time to time for the purposes of carrying out a portion or part of the Project.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EMBRAPA shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, 
waiving or failing to enforce any Contractual Arrangement or Other Contractual 
Arrangement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.  (a)  EMBRAPA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligation under this Agreement,
under the Contractual Arrangements and under the Other Contractual Arrangements, and 
the performance by the Participating Entities of their objectives under the 
Contractual Arrangements and the Other Contractual Arrangements and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
EMBRAPA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the
performance by EMBRAPA of its obligations under this Agreement, and the Contractual 
Arrangements and Other Contractual Arrangements, or the performance by the 
Participating Entities of their obligations under the Contractual Arrangements and 
Other Contractual Arrangements.
(c)
Without limitation to paragraphs (a) and (b) above, EMBRAPA shall 
appoint, transfer or assign to, or within, the various research units and, thereafter 
maintain in such research unit
adequate staff for the purposes of carrying out Part C (Technology Transfer and 
Dissemination) of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06.  EMBRAPA shall create and maintain the position of a Project 
Coordinator, in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed between EMBRAPA and 
the Bank, in the Departamento de Orcamento e Captacao de Recursos, and thereafter 
appoint to, and maintain in, such position  a Project Coordinator with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to EMBRAPA and the Bank.
Section 2.07.  EMBRAPA shall create and maintain the position of a Regional 
Research Coordinator, in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed in each case 
between EMBRAPA and the Bank, in each of the two Regional Research Centers and 
thereafter appoint to,  and maintain in,  such positions Regional Research 
Coordinators with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
EMBRAPA and the Bank. 
Section 2.08.  (a)  EMBRAPA shall,  through  its  Project Coordinator:
(i)
cause each Participating Entity under the relevant Contractual 
Arrangements  
or Other Contractual Arrangements, as the case may 
be, to submit a draft PAT 
for the next fiscal year, and shall itself 
prepare a PAT relating to its 
implementation of the Project;
 
(ii)
consolidate such PAT's which shall include, inter alia, details of 
the 
corresponding budget for the following year; provide 
information, as the Bank 
may reasonably request, concerning the 
proposed activities under the Project 
of each State Research Agency and 
an implementation schedule, setting forth 
the activities; and
 
(iii)
by November 30 in each year submit the draft Consolidated PAT to 
the Bank for 
its review and comment.
 
(b)
Without limitation to or restriction upon its other obligations under 
this Agreement, EMBRAPA shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate,  to ensure 
that the Project is implemented each year in accordance with the Consolidated PAT.
Section 2.09.  Without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
obligations under the General Conditions and this Project Agreement, EMBRAPA shall:
(a)
(i)
inform and keep the Bank informed, on the progress of the Project 
Page  4
and all 
technical administrative and financial matters 
relating thereto;
(ii)
prepare and submit to the Bank in each year of the Project: by 
September 30,  
a report covering the period January 1 to June 30 
(for the purposes of this  
Section, the "First Report"), and, by 
April 30, a report covering the period 
January 1 to December 31 (for the 
purposes of this Section, the "Second 
Report). The First Report 
shall contain information in quantitative and 
statistical form on 
Project progress;  the Second Report shall be an annual 
consolidated 
progress report which shall summarize progress achieved during 
the 
year, describe and analyze the results of research carried out under the 
Project;
(iii)
cause through the relevant Contractual Arrangements and Other 
Contractual
Arrangements, each Participating Entity, to prepare and submit to 
EMBRAPA 
semi-annual reports of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project, or part 
of the Project, to enable EMBRAPA to prepare, 
for submission to the Bank the 
First Report and the Second Report 
referred to in (ii) above; and
(b)
in the third year of the Project:
 
(i)
cause a review to be carried out, and a report to be prepared, by 
experts 
engaged for such purpose under terms of reference 
presented to the Bank for 
approval no later than March 31, 1992, 
together with EMBRAPA's experts to 
assess, inter alia, the 
effect of the Project in relation to the agreed 
objectives 
and targets, and the organizational and institutional arrangements 
for research planning and coordination; and monitoring,  evaluation and 
technology dissemination systems, and, in general, the research carried out 
under the Project; and
(ii)
exchange views with the Bank on any recommendation made in the 
report and on 
its findings presented to the Bank no later than 
September 30, 1992, and 
introduce the changes agreed between 
EMBRAPA and the Bank, in the 
implementation of the 
research programs carried out under the Project; and
(c)
provide, as soon as practicable to the Bank for review and comment the 
studies carried out under Part E of the Project. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation or restriction upon its other obligations 
under this Agreement, EMBRAPA shall acquire with its own resources, in a timely 
manner, the vehicles and computer equipment required for the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management ant Operations of EMBRAPA
Section 3.01.  EMBRAPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs  in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
agricultural and scientific research policies, standards and practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  EMBRAPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to  time,  promptly as needed,  
make all necessary repairs and renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, agricultural and environmental practices.
Section 3.03.  EMBRAPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  EMBRAPA shall maintain,  or cause to be maintained, separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices,  its operations and financial condition,  including separate records and 
accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures  in respect of the Project.
(b)
EMBRAPA shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in pargraph (a) above 
and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, EMBRAPA shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EMBRAPA 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify EMBRAPA thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01   Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For EMBRAPA:
Parque Rural - Final W/3 Norte
Setor de Areas Isoladas Norte
70.770 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
EMBRAPA
61 20 74
Brasilia, Brazil
61 16 20
 
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EMBRAPA, may 
be taken or executed by the President of EMBRAPA or such other person or persons as 
the President of EMBRAPA shall designate in writing, and EMBRAPA shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA
Page  7
By /s/ Carlos Magno Lampos da Rocha
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable,  contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted,  the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A:  bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the sat is faction of the Borrower and the 
Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil 
equal to at least 50% of the value 
of the complete goods.
 
(2)
Group B:  bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods, pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B,  as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  8
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 and civil works may be procured on 
the basis of competitive bidding,  advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, small civil works contracts 
(mostly improvements to existing facilities) in total not exceeding the aggregate 
equivalent of $1,000,000 may be executed under force account of EMBRAPA.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,  (books and periodicals)  
not exceeding the aggregate equivalent of $5,600,000 may be procured through direct 
contracting from the
publishers.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $750,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, and the first two such contracts  for goods below 
$250,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
CESA or FESA, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the CESA or FESA in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $150,000 
equivalent but less than $750,000 in the case of civil works, and less than $250,000 
equivalent in the case of goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the CESA or FESA, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
2.
The figure of 25% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist EMBRAPA in carrying out the Project, EMBRAPA shall employ, or 
cause to be employed, consultants, whose qualifications, experience And terms and 
conditions of employment
shall be proposed by EMBRAPA and satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the terms "custom duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions to be included
in Contractual Arrangements
The Contractual Arrangements to be entered into between EMBRAPA and the State 
Page  9
Research Agencies shall, inter alia:
(a)
set out execution guidelines, targets and procedures, including funding 
mechanisms and conditions linked to performance criteria for the implementation of the 
portion or Part of the
Project to be implemented by each State Research Agency and for the coordination of 
the activities thereof with those of other State Research Agencies in respect of the 
different Parts of the Project;
(b)
provide  for the obligations of each State Research Agency to submit 
periodic progress reports, annual operating plans (PATS) to EMBRAPA in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement and of the General Conditions; and
(c)
provide for the obligation of each State Research Agency to comply and 
agree to be bound by, where applicable, the terms and conditions and provisions of the 
Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement and, particularly, those of Article IV 
thereof.
