                             Document of
                            The World Bank




                                               Report No. ICR2014




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-73960)


                              ON A LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF 214.2 MILLION EGYPTIAN POUNDS
                (US$ 37.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                 FOR A

                   MORTGAGE FINANCE PROJECT




                            January 30, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
Egypt, Yemen and Djibouti Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
        ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT—GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1st – June 30th
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2011)
                     Currency Unit           Egyptian Pound
                       US$1.00                   LE 5.96

                           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                Metric System
                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARM     Adjustable Rate Mortgage
BOP     Balance of Payments
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBE     Central Bank of Egypt
CMA     Capital Markets Authority
CPI     Consumer Price Index
DPL     Development Policy Loan
EALB    Egyptian Arab Land Bank
ECIM    Egyptian Cadastral Information System
EFS     Egypt Financial Services
EGP     Egyptian Pound
EHFC    Egyptian Housing Finance Company
EMRC    Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company
ESA     Egypt Survey Authority
EU      European Union
FIL     Financial Intermediary Loan
FMR     Financial Management Report
FMS     Financial Management System
FRM     Fixed Rate Mortgage
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Report
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GSF     Guarantee and Subsidy Fund
HDB     Housing Development Bank
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
LTV     Loan-to-Value Ratio
MIC     Middle-Income Country
MOIC    Ministry of International Cooperation
MOJ     Ministry of Justice
MFA     Mortgage Finance Authority
MFF     Mortgage Finance Fund
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MSAD    Ministry of State for Administrative Development
MTR     Mid Term Report
NBE     National Bank of Egypt
PML     Participating Mortgage Lender
QAG     Quality Assessment Group
RELC    Real Estate Lending Company
REPD    Real Estate Publicity Directorate (Ministry of Justice)
RETD    Real Estate Taxation Department (Ministry of Finance)
ROE     Return on Equity
TMRC    Tanzanian Mortgage Refinance Company
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VPU     Vice-Presidential Unit


                       Vice President:     Inger Andersen
                    Country Director:      A. David Craig
                      Sector Director:     Loic Chiquier
                     Sector Manager:       Simon Bell
                   Task Team Leader:       Sahar Nasr
                                               ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                              MORTGAGE FINANCE PROJECT



                                                         Table of Contents




DATA SHEET

 A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................... i
 B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................................. iii
 C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................. iii
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................... iv
 E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. iv
 F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. iv
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................ vi
 H. Restructuring ......................................................................................................................... vi
 I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................. vi

 1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................................... 2
 3.     Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................... 22
 4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................. 29
 5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................. 31
 6.     Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................ 33
 7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ................... 35

 Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 36
 Annex 2: Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 37
 Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 39
 Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 40
 Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR ..................................................................................... 41
 Annex 6: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 44
 Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 45
 Annex 8: Map............................................................................................................................ 46




                                                                        i
                                        ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Mortgage Finance Project Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) was prepared by a
core International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) team comprising: Sahar Nasr, Task
Team Leader and Lead Financial Economist; Simon Christopher Walley, Senior Housing Finance
Specialist; Santiago Herrera, Lead Country Economist; Laila Abdel Kader, Finance and Private Sector
Development Analyst; and Steve Wan, Operations Analyst. Akram El-Shorbagi, Senior Financial
Management Specialist; Karim Badr El-Din, Research Analyst; Georgette Mounir Ibrahim, Information
Officer; Wael El Shabrawy, Financial Management Analyst; Amira Zaky, Program Assistant; and Marwan
Ezz Al Arab, Program Assistant, have also provided substantial contributions.

Special gratitude is also due to Loïc Chiquier, Director, Financial and Private Sector Development MENA,
and Capital Markets Global Practice; A. David Craig, Country Director; Emmanuel Mbi, Director, Strategy
and Operations; and Simon C. Bell, Sector Manager, for their guidance throughout the implementation of
the operation and in ensuring successful completion. The team is also grateful to the Peer Reviewers,
Michel Noel, Service Line Manager, Capital Markets, Non-Bank Financial Institutions; Ira Peppercorn,
Senior Housing Finance Specialist; Marja Hoek-Smit, Professor at Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania; Claude Taffin, Housing Finance Expert; and Olivier Hassler, Housing Finance Expert, for
their useful comments. Special thanks are due to Thomas L. Zearley, MNA Quality Review Team, for his
continuous support to the housing finance program in Egypt, including this project.

Thanks are due to the IFC team for their excellent cooperation throughout implementation of this project,
especially Nada Shousha, Principal Country Officer. The USAID has been a great partner in supporting the
mortgage finance market, special thanks to Injy Lotfy, Senior Economist.

The World Bank Group greatly appreciates the close collaboration with the Government of Egypt. Special
gratitude goes to Dr. Farouk El Okdah, Governor of the Central Bank of Egypt; and Minister Fayza
Aboulnaga, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation; as well as the project main counterparts,
Mr. Tarek Amer, Chairman of the National Bank of Egypt and the founder of the Egyptian Mortgage
Refinance Company (EMRC); Ms. Lobna Helal, Chair of EMRC, and the Deputy Governor of CBE; Ms.
May Abdel Hamid, Deputy Chair, EMRC, and the Chair of the Mortgage Finance Fund (MFF); Ms. Eman
Ismail, Managing Director, EMRC; Mr. Mohamed Hammam, Assistant to the Minister of International
Cooperation in Charge of International Organizations, International Regional and Arab Financing
Institutions; Ms. Seham Abdel Baky, General Director of Projects Department, Ministry of International
Cooperation; Mrs. Mona Zobaa, Head of Investment Policy; Ministry of Investment; and Ms. Ghada Wahid,
Economist, Ministry of Investment; as well as countless other government officials and experts from the
banks, mortgage companies and developers from the public and private sector who have contributed to the
successful implementation of this operation.




                                                        ii
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                                      EG-MORTGAGE
Country:                    Egypt, Arab Republic of     Project Name:
                                                                                      FINANCE
Project ID:                 P093470                     L/C/TF Number(s):             IBRD-73960
ICR Date:                   01/30/2012                  ICR Type:                     Core ICR
                                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:         FIL                         Borrower:
                                                                                      EGYPT
Original Total              EGP 214.2 M                                               EGP 214.2 M
                                                        Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:                 (USD 37.1M equivalent)                                    (USD 39.06M equivalent)1
Revised Amount:             USD 37.1M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Investment, the Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company (EMRC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: USAID, IFC

B. Key Dates
                                                                                              Revised / Actual
       Process                 Date                Process              Original Date
                                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:            02/10/2005       Effectiveness:               05/08/2007              05/08/2007
Appraisal:                 05/10/2006       Restructuring(s):
Approval:                  07/06/2006       Mid-term Review:                                     07/04/2010
                                            Closing:                     07/31/2011              07/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                               Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                            Low
Bank Performance:                                       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                   Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings               Borrower                              Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory            Government:                          Highly Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Highly Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                                                 Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




1
 The loan disbursement was made in Egyptian Pounds (EGP). The difference between the original commitment and the
disbursed amount in USD is due to the change in the exchange rate.
                                                       iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                               QAG Assessments (if
                                 Indicators                                                Rating
      Performance                                          any)
Potential Problem Project at
                                          No           Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                                          No                                           Satisfactory
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                                   Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                        Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing finance                                                          100                     100



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                                       33                     33
Other financial and private sector development                             67                     67

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:                   Inger Andersen                            Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:                 A. David Craig                            Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                   Simon C. Bell                             Zoubida Allaoua
Project Team Leader:              Sahar Nasr                                Deane Jordan
ICR Team Leader:                  Sahar Nasr
ICR Primary Author:               Sahar Nasr




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The project's development objective is for primary lenders in the financial market (both banks and
non-bank lenders) to provide longer-term, market-based mortgage loan financing for residential
housing. Such financing is scarce, in part because primary lenders do not have reliable access to
sources of term finance on favorable terms that could help them mitigate the associated business and
lending risks. The Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company (EMRC), the liquidity facility, will
provide such a source.




                                                      iv
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                       Formally
                    Baseline
                                Original Target Values (from           Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
    Indicator        Value
                                    approval documents)                 Target      Completion or Target Years
                     (2006)
                                                                        Values
Growth in                          07       08    09   10        11                 07      08    09     10   11
volume of
market-based
mortgage loans
                                                                         NA
extended by            300      400         600 1,500 2,400 4,000                  2,054 3,229 3,900 3,700 4,500
primary lenders
annually
(LE million)
                    The volume of market-based mortgage loans extended by primary lenders increased at a
Comments:
                    higher rate than initially projected.
Lengthening of
term to maturity
structure of
market-based            7          8        10    12   14        15      NA         9       11    14    16    16
mortgage
lending
(number of years)
                    The term extension is important because it is the major channel whereby the impact of the
Comments:           project on the financial intermediation process helps to improve the affordability of housing
                    for individual households, attaining a more inclusive system.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                    Baseline Original Target Values
                                                                Formally Revised      Actual Value Achieved at
    Indicator        Value      (from approval
                                                                 Target Values       Completion or Target Years
                     (2006)       documents)
Number of                    07 08 09 10 11                      10         11       07     08    09     10   11
primary lenders
extending               2      3        4     4    6   6                                6    8    11     11   12
mortgage loans
                    The number of primary lenders extending mortgage loans has increased beyond the
Comments:
                    projected, which is a very positive development.
Volume of PML
borrowings from
                        0      125 300 600 800 1,200             250       400       0      131   176   289   450
the EMRC
(LE million)
                    The reason behind these adjustments was mainly due to the delay in the effectiveness of the
                    project. While the Board approved the project in June of 2006, effectiveness was only
                    declared in May 2007 because the Parliament was in recess. Furthermore, a number of
Comments:           unexpected changes in the legal and regulatory environments required two amendments to
                    the project‘s legal documents, and as a result, the project only began actual implementation
                    in November 2007, and disbursement in August 2008—hence the delay in EMRC lending to
                    participating mortgage lenders (PMLs).




                                                            v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
No.                                   DO                             IP
         Archived                                                                    (USD millions)*
  1     07/26/2006             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                0.00
  2     10/03/2007             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                0.09
  3     06/30/2008         Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory                0.09
  4     01/28/2009             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory               22.14
  5     08/07/2009             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory               26.52
  6     03/02/2010             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory               31.50
  7     09/05/2010             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory               34.71
  8     05/11/2011             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory               39.06
* The loan disbursement was made in Egyptian Pounds and hence the difference between the original commitment and the
disbursed amount in USD is due to the change in the exchange rate.



H. Restructuring
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                                           vi
1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.    Context at Appraisal
Macroeconomic Framework
1.      The macroeconomic framework was satisfactory at the time when the project was proposed
and appraised. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 5 percent in fiscal year (FY) 2004/2005.
During that period, the Egyptian authorities were ensuring that the management of the exchange rate,
monetary and fiscal policies were consistently coordinated, and appropriate tools were being
developed towards this end. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) had to ensure a smooth functioning of
the exchange rate market and develop a more comprehensive monetary policy framework. The
exchange rate regime was a managed float although the pound‘s nominal exchange rate with the dollar
was kept within a narrow band. Inflation was low with the drop in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
from its October 2004 peak of 18.2 percent to 3.7 percent in March 2006.
2.      The government of Egypt embarked on a macroeconomic and structural reform program in
late 2004 that improved the investment climate and supported a growth acceleration episode that
averaged over 7 percent between FY06 and FY07. This period witnessed a fall in the unemployment
rate from 11.2 percent in 2005 to 8.7 percent in 2007, and gross public debt ratios fell from over 100
percent of GDP in 2005 to 75 percent in 2007. However, it is worth noting that during project
implementation, the global financial crisis took hold, and economic growth started to slow down. The
Egyptian financial sector has weathered the global financial crisis to a great extent, mainly due to the
strengthening of the financial sector and its regulatory and supervisory framework with the reform
program undertaken which enabled it to be more resilient to shocks. Despite the progress made under
the reform program, a number of challenges still remain—especially the access to finance issue.
Moreover, the economic growth rate was not high enough to absorb the rapidly growing labor force
and continue the reduction of the public debt burden. The reform process stalled in this context,
poverty increased slightly, and spatial welfare disparities remained unchanged. Economic and social
progress could not keep pace with the aspirations of many Egyptians, especially the youth, creating the
tension that led to the Egyptian Revolution of January 25, 2011, and accordingly a change in the
regime.
3.      It is important to note that the context at appraisal varied significantly from that during project
implementation. In fact, the first years of project implementation were totally different from the last
years. Nevertheless, the project proceeded in a smooth manner, even though it was affected by the
unforeseen risks and implications associated with the unexpected changes in the global and local
environments resulting from the global financial crisis and the January 25th Egyptian revolution. The
revolution has put to the forefront challenges but also opportunities. Post-revolution, the
macroeconomic environment has deteriorated, the economic growth has slowed down, and that had
implications on the financial sector accordingly. GDP was negatively affected by the social disruptions
that occurred GDP growth fell in FY11 to 1.8 percent from 5.1 percent in FY10.
4.      The growth forecast for the year was revised downward to one percent and, the public deficit
is estimated to be approximately 9.5 percent of GDP. The drop in GDP growth, the decline in
investments, and the returning migrant workers from Libya pressured upward the unemployment rate.
Given that tourism and construction are the most heavily affected sectors and both are labor intensive,
it would not be a surprise to see the unemployment rate increased by two to three percentage points.
5.      The lengthening of the transition period along with ongoing political turbulence, delayed
economic recovery, continuous erosion of international reserves and contributed to worsened debt
dynamics. Net foreign reserves had fallen to reach US $18.12 billion as of December 2011. CBE
deposits in commercial banks had evaporated, due mostly to liquidation of foreigner's holding of T-

                                                    2
bills. In addition, Egyptian sovereign ratings and banks‘ ratings have been downgraded by three rating
agencies. These downgrades reflected the political uncertainty that negatively affected foreign direct
investments (FDI) inflows and disrupted economic activity. FDI decreased from US$ 67.582 billion in
2010 to reach US$ 21.886 in 2011. The Egyptian Stock Exchange was deeply affected as well, as it
was shut between January 27, 2011 and March 23, 2011, after it dropped 16 percent in the two days
following the protests. Sharp losses have occurred in FY11 as investors pulled their money from the
market amid ongoing investigations of former regime officials, and some of the country's top
businessmen whose companies are listed on the stock market. Overall, the financial sector was
affected by the revolution and the recent economic developments.
6.       At the same time the revolution brought opportunities, an appetite for reform and prospects of
change. The revolution has brought to the forefront the need to create job opportunities, a level playing
field, transparency and accountability, and a fair and competitive environment, entailing a more
inclusive system. There are potentials for reform and change, which included the provision of
affordable housing. This is especially critical as a well-functioning housing system has multiple
benefits including improved affordability, reduced fiscal burden, and enhanced macroeconomic
stability. All this contributed to the full disbursement and the successful completion of the project in a
timely manner.
Sector Background
7.      Housing market. Egypt experienced very rapid urbanization until the mid-l980s, fueled by
both rural to urban migration and natural population growth. The major cities and towns accounted for
about 43 percent of the total population of approximately 80 million. Smaller urban villages of
between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants account for an additional 24 percent of the population. The
government of Egypt has constructed about 19 new towns and satellite cities, comprising more than
230,000 housing units. These new urban communities were intended to provide housing alternatives in
the desert to contain the demand for building on agricultural land in the Delta and the Nile Valley.
This activity has imposed a heavy burden on the budget, but many of the new urban communities
remained sparsely populated. The overall population was growing at about 1.5 percent annually at the
project appraisal, and was projected to reach about 88 million by 2021. Much of this population
growth will be in the main urban centers, further fuelling pressure on the housing sector, even if the
share of the urban population in the total population does not increase significantly. Accommodating
the projected urban population growth in such a short period presents major challenges for the
government‘s housing and urban policies, infrastructure and institutions.
8.        Housing is the most visible indicator of social wellbeing and it is politically important for
governments to guarantee reasonable standards of housing for the majority of the population. In
addition, housing is a large part of the economy,2 and has a strong multiplier effect. There has been a
persistent gap in Egypt between incomes and the cost of new housing even at the middle income
level.3 It is estimated that around 175,000 to 200,000 new housing units are needed annually to keep
pace with household formation, but only the top 10 to 20 percent of the income distribution can afford
to acquire a formal sector house.4 To help improve access to formal home ownership by low and
middle income households, the Government of Egypt has in the past provided a range of subsidies,
through a plethora of special programs. Many of these public housing schemes involved large
government subsidies.



2
  Typically greater than 20 percent of GDP.
3
  This is mainly due to high planning and subdivision standards of new housing, the lack of a resale market for existing
housing. At the same time, household formation is high because of high urban growth rates and decreasing household size.
4
  According to the estimates of the Ministry of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Development (2009).

                                                           3
9.      A major challenge in the housing sector in Egypt over the past few decades was subsidies.
Housing is at the forefront of most political discourse in a vast array of societies. The housing sector
tends to be a large part of the economy, and is a major factor in creating stable societies, as well as, a
key indicator of the standard of social conditions. This is why emphasis is placed on the housing sector,
and why most governments intervene in the housing market through a wide range of policies, that are
intended to increase housing consumption by various groups.5
10.      Housing subsidies in Egypt are typically supply-side subsidies from both national and local
government and are cumulative. These are: (i) direct on budget subsidies from national and local
government, which includes direct subsidies to developers or local governments for units/plots
constructed under the National Housing Program (NHP); direct subsidies for infrastructure and public
services provision; and construction costs supplements by New Urban Committees Authority (NUCA)
and local government; and (ii) indirect (implicit) subsidies, which includes subsidized state land that is
desert land and is usually allocated to government authorities at zero cost and to developers at prices
that are well below market for all social housing developments; and implicit housing finance subsidies
through below market interest rates on mortgage loans issued by government banks. The total on- and
off-budget NHP subsidies are estimated by the Ministry of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Development
to be LE 2.8 billion per year, roughly 0.4 percent of nominal GDP.
11.      Subsidy targeting and allocation procedures used for current subsidy programs are another
main concern. Government implemented housing programs under the NHP are aimed at households
with a current maximum income well below the median (LE 640 based on a maximum monthly
payment of LE 160 per month at 25 percent of income), without a system to adjust income targets over
time. This income group cannot afford a newly built house with a market rate loan, even with the
typical supply-side subsidy package. Nor do private lenders serve this income level yet. The outcome
has been an increase in the general level of local government subsidies, hidden subsidies by
government lenders and a gross misallocation of subsidies to households who can pay cash for a large
part of the house cost. Moreover, government land allocated to private developers for social housing
projects is often not utilized in a timely fashion, forcing developments to go further out while large
tract of serviced land remain vacant. 6 Overall, housing subsidies have imposed a heavy burden on
public finances, making such efforts unsustainable, while satisfying only a small part of the demand
and not reaching targeted income groups.
12.     Other factors that hindered the advancement of the housing sector were the high vacancy rates,
rent control, and informality. Indeed, almost 3.7 million urban housing units are either vacant or
closed, an estimated 42 percent of the housing stock in Greater Cairo is frozen under rent control, and
some 45 percent of new urban housing over the past decade was produced by the informal sector.
While these three distortions are not entirely additive (e.g. an informally built unit may be held vacant
and/or under rent control), it could be conservatively estimated that 50–70 percent of the urban
housing stock in Egypt suffers from such market constraints. These combined market weaknesses
directly affect the affordability of housing (which is further compounded by the rapid rise in
construction costs and property values), the success of the newly initiated mortgage system, the
mobility of labor, and the government‘s ability to address the shelter needs of limited income groups.
13.     There are significant fiscal and macroeconomic consequences of a poorly functioning housing
system. A well-functioning housing market produces a wide range of house types with a broad range
of prices and tenure options, which reduces the demand for government subsidies. Over the past 25



5
 Housing Finance Policy In Emerging Markets. Chiquier, Loic and Michael Lee World Bank Publication (2009).
6
 The government is currently working on addressing the high vacancy problem by issuing a Real Property Tax which would
be an incentive to rent vacant houses.

                                                          4
years, the public sector in Egypt built as much as 36 percent (1.26 million units) of all formal housing
units supplied in urban areas. This came at a significant fiscal cost of LE 26.4 billion, not including
additional off budget subsidies related to the cost of land and off-site infrastructure (trunk water,
wastewater, power, and phone lines). Moreover, while the Ministry of Finance has allocated over LE 1
billion per year towards the NHP, it is estimated that the true direct cost of the program could reach at
minimum LE 2.8 billion per year, or around 0.4 percent of GDP.
14.      The establishment of the Guarantee and Subsidy Fund (GSF) was an important step in moving
to a more transparent system of upfront mortgage linked subsidies and the creation of Egyptian
Mortgage Refinance Company (EMRC) allowed financial institutions to enter into market-based low
and middle income mortgage lending. Subsequently the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program
implemented by the Mortgage Finance Fund (MFF), reformed the old system of inefficient and poorly
targeted supply-side subsidies for housing embedded in NHP for the broad low and middle income
segment, and replaced them with a transparent, well-targeted and economically efficient demand-side
subsidy system, which would go directly to the beneficiaries rather than the developers. This new
system in addition to significantly improving affordability, prevented any room for competition and
conflict of interest. It is worth noting that the EMRC played a key role in the refinancing of
subsidized mortgage loans for the low-income and middle-income households, contributing to
attaining a more inclusive system.
15.      Housing finance system. Access to affordable housing and home ownership for most
Egyptian households at project appraisal was greatly constrained by an undeveloped housing finance
system. The banking sector offered very little formal housing finance to households although a few
commercial banks—both state-owned and private—have made a limited amount of loans to
homebuyers, mostly as part of their retail activities or of their lending to developers, by using
collateral other than mortgage pledges. A few developers have also been providing term financing
under a system of deferred installment sale contracts, but these have not offered secure or favorable
conditions for borrowers, and housing affordability was not improved because loan maturities are too
short. Although the banks had plenty of liquidity in 2006, they have been reluctant to extend mortgage
loans for two main reasons: (i) the maturity mismatch between their short term deposits and long term
mortgage loans; and (ii) the lack of registered titles (in part due to the costly and time consuming
process to obtain good title). At appraisal, two non-bank real estate lending companies were created
but have done only a small amount of lending due to lack of long term funds.
16.      To address these constraints, the government worked on developing an enabling environment
for a modern residential mortgage market that will allow most of the burden of housing finance to be
shifted away from the government budget and onto the financial markets and the private sector. The
government started to prepare a mortgage law, setting the legal and regulatory framework. The
enabling environment also included the policies, institutions and systems necessary to facilitate the
emergence of an efficient, low risk residential mortgage finance system in which mortgage lenders
compete on a market basis to make housing finance available to Egyptian households on economically
attractive terms and conditions.
17.       Reforms undertaken by the government during project preparation and appraisal, included:
(i) enactment of a new Real Estate Finance Law 148 of 2001 (viz., Mortgage Law) that sets out the
legal foundations for market-based housing finance, building upon best practices from around the
world, including improved collateral enforcement and foreclosure processes; (ii) amending the
Executive Regulation of the Real Estate Finance Law 148 of 2001 with the objective of revisiting the
definition of low-income borrowers that are eligible to subsidies from LE 21,000 to LE 30,000, as well
as allowing for Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM) and determining the indexes to be used in pricing;
(iii) strengthening the legal and institutional framework for mortgage securities through amendments
to the Capital Markets Law to facilitate the issuance of alternative forms of financial instruments, such

                                                   5
as mortgage bonds and eventual securitization; (iv) establishment of a new regulatory institution for
real estate activities, the Mortgage Finance Authority (MFA) creating a secure and strong regulatory
environment to protect the interest of lenders and consumers;7 (v) established a GSF8 to provide a
temporary social safety for borrowers who experience adverse life events, such as a loss of
employment that lead to payment defaults; and (vi) the establishment of a new Ministry of Investment
with a mandate to develop the mortgage market, and encouraging the formation of new, non-bank real
estate lending or mortgage finance companies.
18.      Most importantly was the establishment, with the assistance of the Bank, of the first liquidity
facility in Egypt for mortgage finance, the EMRC that enabled qualified mortgage lenders to access
term refinancing for their mortgage loans and to better manage the risks of mortgage lending. In
addition, specialized economic courts were established, and there was adequate enforcement of
foreclosures. The first private credit bureau was developed and for the first time in Egypt, non-bank
financial institutions, such as mortgage companies would have access to credit worthiness information
in a timely manner, improving underwriting process and lower credit risk for lenders. Consumer
protection and financial literacy was a priority, through setting minimum disclosure standards
pertaining to loan information, and familiarizing consumers with the new financial products.
19.      However, despite the considerable progress made, the market structure and infrastructure for a
comprehensive, well-functioning mortgage finance system was not complete and further work was
required. Key areas that needed reforms included: (i) developing EMRC into a well-functioning,
financially sustainable, market-based institution; and (ii) further strengthening the regulatory and
institutional framework for the mortgage market. The Mortgage Finance Project, in conjunction with
other donor programs, aimed at addressing these requirements.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
20.     Bank involvement has been fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
May 20, 2005, covering the period FY06-FY09. Since 2000, the Bank has provided the government
with substantial policy and technical advice on mortgage market development issues that has been of
great benefit to the authorities in its laudable efforts to develop the policy, legislative and institutional
foundations for a mortgage market. This includes providing feedback on the draft Real Estate Finance
Law, and its executive regulations, and bringing in the experience of other countries. The Bank also
provided advisory services on the main building blocks for a well functioning mortgage market.
21.     The Bank was keen on supporting the authorities in addressing a key challenge in Egypt,
which is the lack of long-term funding, which made the cost of housing finance high, and inaccessible
to a very large segment of society. Developing the mortgage market and improving the affordability of
housing became more critical during the last year of project implementation, post revolution. Housing
is the most visible indicator of social well-being and it is politically important for the government to
guarantee reasonable standard of housing for the majority of the population. The transition
government and in all likelihood any incoming government will have a strong focus on the provision
of affordable housing for lower income groups. The EMRC will have a key role to play in providing
refinancing for the loans originated under the newly launched subsidy scheme by the MFF.
22.     The liquidity facility model was chosen in Egypt under this project rather than other types of
funding mechanisms for several reasons. The liquidity facility can contribute to the overall mortgage
market growth, and down-market expansion. A mortgage liquidity facility is really the first step in



7
  In 2010, all non-bank financial institutions became regulated by a single regulator, namely the Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority (EFSA), under which MFA came.
8
  Currently renamed to become the Mortgage Finance Fund (MFF).

                                                         6
developing a secondary mortgage market. There are several advantages to such a structure: (i) it
effectively acts as a way to mutualize the banking sector‘s access to the capital market, so that all
banks can access funding at rates that none of them could obtain individually; (ii) the way the
refinancing works, allows the mortgage assets to stay on the balance sheet of the bank and avoid any
of the pitfalls of securitization with the misalignment of incentives; (iii) it addresses directly the main
obstacle to the development of mortgages which is the maturity mismatch between the mortgage asset
and the funding available; and (iv) other issues such as risk management and capital structure which
securitization also tackles are not priorities in the current market.
23.      The Mortgage Finance Project also brought best practice expertise and world-wide experience
in alternative mortgage finance systems to the development of the emerging mortgage market. This
project was part of an integrated package of World Bank Group support to develop and improve the
performance of the financial sector in Egypt.9 This included a pragmatic series of DPL‘s, aiming at
reforming the financial sector, and improving the institutional infrastructure. Bank involvement also
responded to a government‘s request for the Bank to help play a coordinating role in channeling the
support of other donors to the financial sector within a common framework.

1.2.     Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators
24.      The project‘s development objective (PDO) was for primary lenders in the financial market
(both banks and non-bank lenders) to provide longer-term, market-based mortgage loan financing for
residential housing. The project‘s primary target group are the participating mortgage lenders (PMLs)
in the primary financial market. The lack of long-term funds available to primary lenders presented a
major obstacle to the flow of private funds to housing. Their main source of funding was short-term
deposits, which they were not able to intermediate into long-term mortgage loans without taking on
unacceptable increases in their exposure to lending and other business risks. In addition, most of the
primary lenders did not have sufficient market capacity to raise long-term funds in the capital market
at attractive financial terms. The new EMRC that was established through this project aimed at
overcoming this obstacle through the refinance or purchase with recourse of longer-term mortgage
loans originated by PMLs.
25.     Key project outcome indicators comprised: (i) the growth in volume of market-based
mortgage loans extended by primary lenders, rising from a base of about LE 300 million to about
LE 4.5 billion over the period of the project; and (ii) the lengthening of the term to maturity structure
of mortgage loans offered in the market, rising from about 7 to 16 years over the period of the project.
The term extension is important because it is the major channel whereby the impact of the project on
the financial intermediation process helps to improve the affordability of housing for individual
households. Key intermediate outcome indicators are: (i) the number of primary lenders extending
mortgage loans, rising from two to 12 over the period of the project; and (ii) the volume of PML
borrowings from the EMRC, rising from nil to about LE 450 million over the period of the project.
26.     The main project output is the provision by the EMRC of medium- and longer-term mortgage
refinancing loans to PMLs under financially sustainable conditions and on a market basis. Output
indicators comprise: (i) the growth of the EMRC‘s mortgage refinancing operations; and (ii) the
launch by the EMRC of bond issuances that are accepted in the market at prices favorable for EMRC
operations.



9
 There is ample evidence showing a strong and causal relationship between financial sector development and economic
growth. Having an efficient financial system that can deliver essential services can make a huge contribution to a country‘s
economic development. Greater financial development increases growth, reduces economic volatility, creates job
opportunities and improves income distribution, as has been established by a large empirical literature.

                                                             7
27.      The project is deemed successful provided: (i) the project‘s base case projections for growth in
mortgage lending by primary lenders and for the lengthening of the term structure of mortgage lending
are realized by the closing date of the project; and (ii) the sustainability of EMRC, as an important
component of the financial sector that is necessary for the mortgage market to continue on a growth
path following the completion of the project, achieves financial sustainability on a market basis.
28.     Given its focus on building a new financial market, the project does not incorporate any social
housing finance or poverty alleviation goals or associated outcome indicators for which it would be
held accountable. In particular, it will not provide or offer any support for housing finance subsidies.
Sound housing finance practice dictates that housing finance subsidies should be kept separate from
market finance and not allowed to distort financial market incentives. Reforming the housing subsidies
was supported by the Bank under another operation.10

1.3.     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators
29.     Changes to the project involved a revision of three of the monitoring and outcome indicators
that were presented during the design phase of the operation—the targets of which could not be met
due to unexpected changes in the political and economic environment. The targeted projections that
were revised were for the following indicators: (i) volume of PML borrowings from EMRC;
(ii) volume of EMRC refinancing loans to PMLs; and (iii) EMRC launches bond operations. It is
worth noting though that all indicators were met at the end of the lifetime of the project, except for the
bond issuance indicator as the global financial crisis earlier, then currently the political and economic
developments in Egypt post-revolution, were not conducive for bond issuance (more details in Section
2.4).
30.      The reasons behind these adjustments were two-fold; the first was the delay in the
effectiveness of the project. While the Board approved the project in June of 2006, effectiveness was
only declared in May 2007 because the Parliament, both Upper House and Lower House were in
summer recess. Furthermore, a number of unexpected changes in the legal and regulatory
environments required two amendments to the project‘s legal documents in August 2007 and October
2007, and as a result, the project only began actual implementation in November 2007 and
disbursement in August 2008—hence the delay in EMRC lending to PMLs. The second was the
drastic change in local market condition particularly after the repercussions of the global financial
crisis that hit in 2008 which led to the delay in the issuance of EMRC‘s bond. The global financial
crisis had implications on the macroeconomic environment (Table 1), as well as on the pace of reforms.
As a result, a bond issuance at the original time projected by the project in the design phase would not
have made economic sense.
31.      Based on the above justification, the projections for the project‘s two outcome indicators and
one of its intermediate outcome indicators were revised.

1.4.     Main Beneficiaries
32.      Project beneficiaries, include:




10
  Building on the Mortgage Finance Project, the World Bank prepared the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program DPL for
Egypt, which is a US$ 300 million loan aiming at providing affordable housing to low and middle income households. The
operation was approved by the World Bank Board on September 24, 2009 and ratified by the Egyptian Parliament and
declared effective on April 27, 2010. The main development objective of this DPL is to reform the current system of
inefficient and poorly targeted supply-side subsidies for housing for the broad low and middle-income sectors and replace
them with a transparent and economically efficient demand-side subsidy system.

                                                           8
33.     Banks and mortgage companies, shareholders in EMRC are the primary target group of the
project. The 24 PMLs accounting for more than 93 percent of the sector had access to longer term
funding. Six PMLs, three banks and three mortgage companies that tapped on the longer term funding
provided by EMRC, which allowed for the provision of market-based mortgage loans funding for
residential housing. This improved accessibility, cost, and risk management of mortgage finance. This
is crucial for the establishment of long-term lending and the development of a vibrant mortgage
market in Egypt.

Table 1: Selected Indicators, FY 06-FY11
                                                        FY 06       FY 07       FY 08       FY 09       FY 10       FY 11
Output
Nominal GDP at Market Prices (LE bn)                    618         745         896         1042        1207        1371
Real GDP annual growth rate(%)                          6.8         7.1         7.2         4.7         5.1         1.8
Money and Price
CPI inflation rate(%)                                   4.2         11.0        11.7        16.2        11.7        11.1
External sector(% of GDP unless otherwise
mentioned)
Trade deficit                                           11.2        12.5        14.4        13.3        11.5        10.1
Current account balance(+-surplus)                      0.5         2.1         0.5         -2.3        -2.0        -1.2
Net Foreign direct investment(FDI)                      5.6         8.1         7.5         3.6         2.6         0.6
Balance of Payments (+-surplus)                         3.0         4.1         3.3         -1.7        1.8         -4.1
Gross Foreign Exchange Reserves (billion US)            22.9        28.6        34.6        31.3        35.2        25.0
Gross Public External Debt                              27.6        22.8        20.1        16.8        15.2        15.0
Public Finances (Budget Sector)
Total Revenues (including grants)                       24.5        24.2        24.7        27.2        22.2        21.4
  Of which tax revenues                                 15.8        15.4        15.3        15.7        14.1        14.4
Expenditures                                            32.6        31.5        31.5        33.8        30.3        31.5
Budget Deficit                                          8.2         7.3         6.8         6.9         8.2         9.8
Source: CBE, Monthly Statistical Bulletin, various issues; and Ministry of Finance, The Financial Monthly, various issues.


34.     EMRC financed the two specialized housing banks in Egypt, the state-owned Housing and
Development Bank (HDB); and the private Egypt Arab Land Bank (EALB), which are the only banks
that primarily deal with providing loans for houses, especailly low-income housing. EMRC also
provided refinancing to the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), which is the largest state-owned bank,
accounting for more than 20 percent of the banking system with one of the largest branch network in
Egypt reaching out to the poor villages, including those in Upper Egypt. Three mortagage companies
also benefited from EMRC refinancing, namely Tamweel Company (Orascom), which is the pioneer
mortgage company in Egypt, which had successfully built a full-fledged integrated community for
low-income households, which in addition to housing, includes various social services, such as schools,
hospitals, health care clinics, parks, and infrastructure. The second mortgage company that tapped on
EMRC's funding was the Egyptian Housing Finance Company (EHFC), which was also private sector,
and catered all income brackets. The third was the Taamir Company, majority owned by the public
sector, which mainly financed the government subsidized low-income housing. Overall, this shows
that EMRC has catered a wide spectrum of PML, and has diversified its portfolio to commercial and
specialized banks, as well as to mortgage finance companies, both public and private.
35.     Egyptian households, mainly the lower income segment in society benefited from EMRC as
it was also involved in refinancing loans at concessional rates under the NHP. Egyptian households
had access to mortgage finance at a better cost and longer term. PMLs, by borrowing from EMRC, or
                                                               9
at least by having the EMRC available when needed to serve as first resort source of finance, were
better enabled to offer longer-term financing for residential housing development on market terms and
conditions that are favorable for many potential home buyers. Lenders view EMRC as a source of
liquidity that they can tap at short notice. The length of the term of maturity has gone up to 16 years in
2011 as opposed to 7 years only in 2006 prior to the establishment of the liquidity facility. This is
critical as the term extension is the major channel whereby the impact of the project on the financial
intermediation process helps to improve the affordability of housing for individual households,
attaining a more inclusive system. Moreover, there was also an increase in the volume of mortgage
loans by 1400 percent over the lifetime of the project—increasing from a base of 300 million to reach
4.5 billion.
Table 2: Mortgage Refinance of EMRC by Income Brackets of Beneficiaries
     Income Groups           Size of Mortgage Loan         Number of        Volume of Mortgage Loan
                                      (LE)               Mortgage Loans           (million LE)
Low income                           0-100,000               12,296                     350
Middle income                   100,001-2,000,000             270                         93
High income                         >2,000,000                 3                           7
Gross Total                                                    12,569                   450
Source: EMRC (2011).



36.      EMRC has improved affordability
                                              Figure 1: Volume of Mortgage Loan Refinanced by
of housing finance. EMRC played a key
                                                    EMRC by Income Bracket of Beneficiaries
role in the refinancing of subsidized                                (LE million)
mortgage loans. More than 98 percent of
the refinance loans and 78 percent in terms
of volume were allocated to low-income
households (Figure 1). 11 This project set
the foundation for the Affordable
Mortgage Finance Program, which moved
the housing subsidies from supply-side to a
more efficient and well targetted demand-
side subsidy to the beneficiaries. The
project    also    ensured    geographical
distribution, where 15 Governorates
benefited from these mortgage loans,
including those in upper Egypt suffering
from high incidence of poverty and a large
housing gap. EMRC had a positive impact
                                              Source: EMRC (2011).
on the NHP that provides loans to low-
income households on a fixed rate basis. This gives a special importance to EMRC since lenders
would otherwise have no way to hedge such lending, which is a major contribution to low-income
housing together with the lengthening of maturities. Overall, this project has significally benefited the
low-income underserved groups.




11
     Defined as mortgage loans up to LE 100 thousand.

                                                        10
1.5.       Main Outcomes
37.        The following were the main outcomes of the projects that directly helped beneficiaries:
38.    Encouraged the participation of numerous banks and mortgage companies in providing
mortgage finance, as evident in the increase of number of primary lenders extending mortgage loans
from two to 12 over the project‘s lifetime. This has enhanced competition in the mortgage market,
which led to an improvement in the quality of services provided at lower costs. This leveling of the
playing field helped primary lenders to scale down the market and reach out to underserved
segments—thus enhancing access to affordable housing.
39.     Strengthened the regulatory and supervisory infrastructure for mortgage finance. The
project provided advisory services and technical assistance to MFA, and later the Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority (EFSA) and CBE on supervising and regulating the mortgage finance market.
Also, the institutional and legal framework for mortgage finance was set for the first time in Egypt,
during preparation phase, the Bank team of experts advised the authorities on the Real Estate Finance
Law, and the required legal amendments to make the environment more conducive for developing the
market and ensuring the soundness and stability of the system.
40.     Improved transparency and accountability in the mortgage and overall financial sector.
Posting prices of loans, and the different packages offered, helped in providing the beneficiaries with
timely and accurate information before choosing the lender, and the package, in addition to protecting
the consumer. The Bank provided support to EMRC in developing a clear and transparent pricing
strategy which is communicated through its website with regular updates. 12
41.      Consumer protection and financial literacy. Consumer protection and financial literacy was a
priority for the project, through setting minimum disclosure standards pertaining to loan information,
and familiarizing consumers with the new financial products. This helped in familiarizing the Egyptian
consumers with the new financial product and ensured that they are aware of the terms and conditions
of the product when taking out a loan. Initiating dialogue on consumer protection and setting rules was
critical during the period of project implementation, at a time when there were concerns about crony
capitalism and unfairness in access to markets and opportunities.
42.     Enhanced robustness of specialized lenders and risk management. There has been extreme
care in designing the liquidity facility, and its lending mechanism to avoid both uncertainties in
financial contracts and distortions in the sector, a level, competitive playing field among primary
lenders, and a reasonably efficient housing market. EMRC comforted PML and contributed to their
robustness. One of the main catalytic effects of a second tier mortgage facility is the quality of the
loans.
43.      Improved the quality of the portfolio EMRC promoted healthy lending through an eligibly
criteria advantaging underwriting standards for mortgage lending. The Bank built the capacity of
EMRC to undertake the underwriting, evaluation through reviewing and providing no objections to the
first seven transactions. The quality of lending was very good where the default rate is only three
percent, over collateralized at 120 percent. In general, the project supported EMRC and its borrowing
institutions operate on market principles.
44.      Modernized the institutional infrastructure. Specialized economic courts were established,
and there was adequate enforcement of foreclosures. In addition, the first private credit bureau was
established and for the first time in Egypt, non-bank financial institutions, such as mortgage
companies would have access to credit worthiness information, and on a timely manner, improving


12
     www.emrc-online.eg

                                                     11
underwriting process and lower credit risk for lenders. Moreover, mortgage companies also shared
their credit worthiness data to the credit bureau, which helped in developing and improving the quality
of information at the credit bureau.
45.      Streamlining property registration and reduction of fees. There has also been tangible impact
and notable improvement in property registration, which goes beyond the project main objectives, but
had contributed to the achievements of the key targets. This includes the fast track registration system
for new houses, through the nationwide mapping and titling program, and the drastic reduction in
registration fees. The government has also recently launched a systematic title-adjudication, survey,
and registration process to modernize the property registration system. All this led to streamlining and
improving the property registration process with costs being cut by half and steps reduced from 23 to
7; reduction in the cost of deed or title registration from 12 percent of the value of the property, to 6
percent, to a further 3 percent to its current maximum flat fee of LE 2,000; and a fast track foreclosure
system has been initiated. The Bank team also worked closely with the Ministry of State for
Administrative Development on the tri-partite agreement and its amendments, regarding streamlining
property registration in the new urban communities.

1.6.    Original Components
46.      The project comprises a World Bank loan in local currency in the amount of LE 214.2 million
(about US$37.1 million equivalent) to the Arab Republic of Egypt for on-lending to the EMRC as a
line of credit, which it will utilize as one of its funding sources to provide medium and longer-term
mortgage refinancing loans to PMLs on a market basis. The World Bank project supported the initial,
start-up phase and the strengthening of EMRC operations. Another source of EMRC funding
comprised the paid-in equity investments of shareholders.
47.     The EMRC was legally incorporated as a joint stock company with the assistance of the World
Bank prior to Board presentation. It is a wholesale (second tier), specialized liquidity facility operating
on commercial principles to attract the equity investments of private parties. It is majority owned by
the users of its financial services, mainly the PMLs (both active banks and mortgage finance
companies). The CBE a strategic investor with a 20 percent ownership share initially, and the MFF has
a small share of 2 percent.
48.       Alternative solutions for the liquidity facility were studied and investigated. This includes the
option of securitazation and mortgage bonds. The liquidity facility model was chosen in Egypt rather
than other types of funding mechanisms for several reasons. The liquidity facility can contribute to
the overall mortgage market growth, and down-market expansion. A mortgage liquidity facility is the
first step in developing a secondary mortgage market. There are several advantages to such a structure:
(i) it effectively acts as a way to mutualize the banking sector‘s access to the capital market. So all
banks can access funding at rates that none of them could obtain individually; (ii) the way the
refinancing works, the mortgage assets stay on the balance sheet of the bank and so avoid any of the
pitfalls of securitization with the misalignment of incentives; (iii) addresses directly the main obstacle
to the development of mortgages which is the maturity mismatch between the mortgage asset and the
funding available; and (iv) risk management and capital structure which securitization also tackles are
not priorities in the current market.
49.      The World Bank team has worked closely with IFC (Annex 6), which has been a major
stakeholder throughout the different phases of the Mortgage Finance Project. IFC provided both an
equity investment and technical assistance from IFC PEP-MENA. The EMRC is expected to develop
sufficient market strength and capacity to issue bonds or other securities in the capital market on
favorable terms in order to help fund its operations on a market sustainable basis. Together with IFC,
the Bank provided technical support across a range of areas but in particular in defining the business
model, operating procedures and risk management framework of EMRC, as well as contracting

                                                    12
international expert consultants, who sat on the Board. IFC as a shareholder provided substantial
support in the drafting of the Operational Manual all of which supported the operationalization of
EMRC.
50.     The EMRC neither takes deposits nor lends directly to households. Its business is the
refinancing or purchase with recourse of longer-term residential mortgage loans originated by primary
lenders. The EMRC's transparency and simplicity will also help reduce the burden of regulation by the
MFA. The PMLs, by borrowing from the EMRC, or at least by having the EMRC available when
needed to serve as first resort source of finance, will be better enabled to offer longer-term financing
for residential housing development on market terms and conditions that are favorable for many
potential homebuyers. Lenders will view the EMRC as a source of liquidity they can tap at short
notice.

1.7.     Revised Components
51.      The project components were not revised during the life of the project.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
52.     The project has been successfully implemented and has been disbursed fully before the closing
date. This is largely attributed to its innovative design and integrated approach, as well as the adequate
preparatory work that was based on quality analytical work and advisory services. The government‘s
commitment to the project and the implementing entity EMRC, as well as its efforts in building
EMRC‘s capacity and in adjusting to the changing environment, contibuted to this. 13 Despite the
challenging environment, ranging from legal and regulatory changes to the global financial crisis and
more recently the revolution of January 2011 the project implementation was not affected, and it
continued disbursing in a timely manner. This was mainly due to the responsivness of the Bank team,
along with a committed counterpart. Following the mid-term review, some of the project‘s expected
outcomes were adjusted taking into account these developments. Accordingly, the project succeeded
in meeting most of the expected outcomes and all of the revised intermediate outcome indicators.

2.1.     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
53.     Sound analytical work. The design of the Mortgage Finance Project reflected lessons learned
in similar projects in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region14 and elsewhere.15 Similar
projects implemented in Algeria, Jordan and the West Bank and Gaza in the 1990s pioneered
mortgage market development in the MENA Region. The project design benefited from the findings
documented in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jordan project,16 that revealed
that deepening financial markets, including secondary markets for loans and increasing institutional
investment opportunities, depends not only on creating frameworks for new financing mechanisms,
but also on conditions in the underlying market for primary lending and general economic activity.
The successes of the Jordanian project were also owed to good financial and judicial fundamentals,
extreme care in designing the liquidity facility and its lending and borrowing mechanisms to avoid


13
   See Annex 5 on the government‘s commitment to ensuring the sustainability and growth of EMRC.
14
   Jordan: Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project (Staff Appraisal Report 15331-JO; Loan 4071-JO approved on
July 26, 1996), and West Bank and Gaza: Housing Project (Staff Appraisal Report 15926-WBGZ; Trust Fund 26052
approved on April 8, 1997),as well as the Algeria Caisse de Refinancement Hypothecaire, that issued bonds only once.
15
   There are a number of international examples of liquidity facilities, including the Federal Home Loan Banks in the US,
Cagamas Berhad in Malaysia, Caisse de Refinancement de 1'Habitat in France, the Mortgage Refinance Company in Jordan,
and the Swiss Pfandbriefe Institute in Switzerland. These institutions have similar missions but somewhat different structure,
powers and privileges.
16
   ICR No. 23518 of October 31, 2002.

                                                             13
both uncertainties in financial contracts and distortions in the sector, a level, competitive playing field
among primary lenders, conducive property registration and titling processes, and a reasonably
efficient housing market.
54.      Other lessons are that in emerging mortgage finance systems, second-tier financial institutions
should start with basic financial products and narrow mandates in order for them to better manage and
control risks in relatively new and untested product markets, and that their operations should be
regulated or overseen by an experienced financial sector regulatory agency. Other important pre-
requisites for successful mortgage markets include reliable property registration systems and effective
legal and judicial processes for mortgage foreclosure. Close attention has been given to these pre-
requisites and the lessons learnt during preparation of the Egypt Mortgage Finance Project.
55.     Coherent and Integrated World Bank Group Support. Also, it is worth noting that the World
Bank Group‘s work in Egypt‘s financial sector has been exemplary in the sense that support has been
provided through a continuum of instruments, from analytical work (including successive FSAPs),
technical assistance, and lending from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD), to advisory services from the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP), as well as IFC
investments. The synergies between these various instruments have proven critical to the success of
the overall engagement. The project received the MENA VPU Team Awards for 2011 for being
exemplary in bringing the World Bank Group together.
56.     Moreover, this project was part of a comprehensive package of support provided by the World
Bank Group and other key development partners to support the financial sector. 17 It was
complemented by a series of Financial Sector Development Policy Loans (DPL) 18 supporting the
financial sector reform program (2004−2012) which helped in laying a firm foundation and in
strengthening the legal and institutional framework of the financial sector for the mortgage market.
Furthermore, with the successful implementation of the Mortgage Finance Project and its setting of the
groundwork for the development of a viable mortgage market in Egypt, a DPL of US$300 million was
approved in September 2009 to support the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program. This highly
innovative operation in its own right aims to extend access to housing finance to those who need it
most through reforming the current system of inefficient and poorly targeted supply-side subsidies for
housing that were previously given to the developers and replace them with a transparent and
economically efficient demand-side subsidy system targeted to the end beneficiaries. Hence, the two
operations were mutually reinforcing—the first setting the institutional, regulatory and legal
framework, and the second operation enhancing access to housing finance for the underserved groups.
57.     Partnership with other donors. The excellent coordination with development partners
contributed to the success of this project. The government of Egypt also received support from several
other donors for financial sector reform, including the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), and the European Union (EU). Regular donor meetings helped in ensuring
synergy and effectiveness in delivering technical and financial assistance.
58.     Project design. The Mortgage Finance Project was referred to as an example of innovative and
good practice in the IBRD Strategy for Engagement with Middle Income Countries (MIC) report,
specifically for its innovative design and integrated approach. The Project established the first
mortgage liquidity facility in Egypt, EMRC. The EMRC enhanced access to long-term funds which
was crucial for the establishment of long-term lending and the development of a vibrant mortgage
market in Egypt. EMRC benefited the lower income sectors of the Egyptian society as it was also


17
  The improvements in the underlying primary lending market would have been supported by the Financial Sector DPLs.
18
  The World Bank has supported Egypt‘s Financial Sector Reform Program through a series of Financial Sector DPLs (I, II,
and III), amounting to US$ 1.5 billion.

                                                          14
involved in refinancing loans at concessional rates under the NHP. Also, this project followed an
innovative approach in the structuring of the loan being in local currency using Egypt‘s capital with
the World Bank, allowing the authorities to hedge for foreign exchange risk. The project was rated
satisfactory by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG).
59.       Wider project benefits outside MENA region. Following the success of the Egypt project, the
liquidity facility model has been replicated in Tanzania and there is strong interest in a number of
other sub-Saharan African countries to follow a similar development route for their mortgage
markets.19 As part of the Tanzania project, the Tanzania Mortgage Refinance Company (TMRC) was
created in early 2011. A delegation from Tanzania visited Egypt on 4-8 July 2010.20 TMRC is still in
its initial stages but was seeking to do its first transaction in 2012. The study trip to Egypt intended to
help share some of the experiences of EMRC in getting ready for market and carrying out their first
transactions as well as sharing lessons learnt and means of addressing challenges met in
implementation. In particular some of EMRC‘s software and systems which were specifically
developed to meet its needs as a secondary mortgage market institution will be of great interest to
TMRC. A further study trip is planned later in 2012 to further build on the learning and sharing. This
is a good example of South-South cooperation in development.
60.      Government’s commitment. Strong partnership has been established between the Bank and
the Egyptian authorities over the past years through an integrated financial sector work program,
reflected in an effective policy dialogue, analytical work, technical assistance, and key operations,
focusing on financial sector development. The project team had a strong and professional policy
dialogue with the Egyptian counterparts, namely the Ministry of Investment, CBE, EMRC, MFA,
EFSA, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of State for Administrative
Development, which helped in the effective implementation of the project, with a solid impact on the
ground. The authorities‘ commitment to the project, and to developing the mortgage market in Egypt,
helped significantly in addressing and in adjusting to the changing environment.
61.     Responsiveness to a changing environment. As previously mentioned the team was
responsive to the changing environment. A good example was when the new tax law was issued,
subjecting the Treasury Bills to taxes contrary to securities, hence distorting the market. EMRC
changed the benchmarking of interest rate. The CBE in many occasions showed its commitment to
support the continuity and the success of the liquidity facility.
62.     Assessment of risks. Risks identified at appraisal were relevant and have been well managed
as mitigating factors were embedded in the design of the project. The project is relatively simple in
structure since it comprises only one major component in the form of the EMRC‘s mortgage
refinancing program. However, the project entails several significant risks related to the
macroeconomic framework, the policy, regulatory and institutional environment in which the EMRC
operated. This included property registration, judicial enforcement of mortgage collateral, the
operational policies and modalities of the EMRC itself, and uncertainties in market behavior. Due to
their unexpected nature, some risks were not adequately addressed and taken into account during
project design and preparation. These risks had to be mitigated by the Bank‘s implementation and
supervision teams.
63.     Unpredicted risks—the global financial crisis and the Egyptian January 25th Revolution. As
in the case of any complex, untested financial market with new institutions, many unanticipated


19
   Other projects are currently under preparation in Nigeria and for the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union.
Preparation of these projects will draw heavily on the lessons and experience of this project in Egypt.
20
   TMRC is a wholly private company owned by its shareholders has been created with the aim of providing mortgage
lenders with longer term funding in an effort to stimulate the mortgage market.

                                                       15
policy, technical and institutional growing problems were likely to arise. In the case of this project, it
is worth noting that two unexpected problems occurred: the global financial crisis and the Egyptian
revolution—both had direct implications on project implementation. Some serious risks to the
achievement of project outcomes were not predicted—the global financial crisis and the January 25th
Revolution and the associated implications.
64.     Global Financial Crisis. The Egyptian financial sector has managed to weather the global
financial crisis. The strengthening of the financial sector and its regulatory and supervisory framework
with the reform program undertaken over the past seven years enabled it to be more resilient to shocks.
Moreover the continued confidence in the system has contributed to reducing the likelihood of bank
runs or any herding effects. Egypt‘s financial sector did not suffer any direct significant effects from
the global financial crisis due to the lack of foreign borrowing or foreign capital flows in the banking
sector. Banks have continued lending to each other and liquidity remained reasonable in the banking
sector. The banking sector has a relatively low loan-to-deposit ratio (a bit higher than 50 per cent),
which limited any propagation effect of the original shock, and hence eliminates the possibility of any
systemic crisis. This was the result of conservative lending policies following the restructuring of the
banking sector.
65.      Impact of the January 25th Revolution on the project. As post-revolutionary Egypt moves
forward towards a new vision, one that offers more equitable opportunities and active participation to
all of its citizens, it faces a number of political and economic challenges. The revolution has had
implications on the overall financial sector. Egyptian sovereign ratings and banks‘ ratings (which
generally must be below the sovereign rating), have been downgraded by three rating agencies. By
January 27, 2011, political protests led Fitch to cut Egypt‘s BB+ country ceiling to negative. And as
banks closed between January 27 and February 6, Moody‘s cut its ratings on January 31, 2011 on five
Egyptian banks.21 Then shortly after, it downgraded its debt rating by one notch from Ba1 to Ba2, and
also changed its country outlook from stable to negative. Similarly, Standard and Poor‘s (S&P)
downgraded Egypt‘s long-term foreign and local currency ratings to BB and BB+, respectively, both
with a negative outlook. In January 2012, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term foreign currency
issuer default ratings for three Egyptian banks to BB-.
66.     These downgrades reflected the political uncertainty that could negatively impact foreign
direct investments (FDI) inflows and disrupt economic activity. In addition, the Egyptian Stock
Exchange was deeply affected, as it was shut between January 27 and March 23, after it dropped 16
percent in the two days following the protests. Sharp losses have occurred as investors pulled their
money from the market amid ongoing investigations of former regime officials, and some of the
country's top businessmen whose companies are listed on the stock market. The change of regime and
the uncertainty surrounding the interim administration has created some difficulties.
67.      Thus, the revolution clearly has a major bearing on the future prospects for the Mortgage
Finance Project. Notably opportunities for fund raising in the capital markets are much more limited
and likewise the mortgage market has slowed down significantly from an already low level of activity
in 2010. Political uncertainty renders capital markets‘ performance expectations unclear. There are
still uncertainties restraining securities from a sustained and certain market recovery. A smooth and
successful transition to a more stable political and economic environment would improve investor
confidence and consequently, pave the way for a return of foreign capital inflows and restoration of
Egypt‘s capital markets position in the global arena. On the positive side, the transition government
and in all likelihood any incoming government will have a strong focus on the provision of affordable



21
  These banks are: National Bank of Egypt, Banque Misr, Banque du Caire, Commercial International Bank, and Bank of
Alexandria.

                                                        16
housing for lower income groups. EMRC will have a key role to play in providing refinancing for the
loans originated under the newly launched subsidy scheme by the Mortgage Finance Fund (MFF).
68.      The housing and construction sectors were adversely affected by the revolution. The supply of
housing is facing difficulties as private real estate developers are facing a period of uncertainty.
Several of the larger developers are currently under investigations for the terms under which they
acquired land from the government over the past few years. This is not expected to have any impact on
current projects or projects near to completion where buyers have already paid deposits, but does
affect future projects and especially the developers‘ land banks. Some developers, especially from the
Gulf countries, have already decided to return some of the land to the government which was in their
land banks.
69.      A further impact of the revolution on real estate developers may be on their financing model.
Developers had been very reliant on continually releasing new housing for sale as a way of generating
cash flow for existing construction. If future flows dry up it may create a liquidity issue for financing
current projects. It is possible that developers will gradually withdraw from the installment loan
market as they would not have access to the long term finance to fund this. This would in turn mean
that the mortgage finance companies and banks would need to provide a greater proportion of end user
financing. The larger developers indicated that the sale of over 95 percent of their properties was done
for cash or on installment loans with very few being sold using mortgages. Some developers indicated
that they have provided mortgages compliant with the Real Estate Finance Law.
70.     The regulatory and supervisory framework for the mortgage market has also been weakened,
following the revolution. EFSA has seen a significant loss in senior personnel following the revolution.
This could be attributed to the government announcement of maximum salaries, as well as a lack of
donor funds that paid the compensations of some of the staff and consultants. This has important
consequence for overall financial regulation and direction for the mortgage market. EFSA already
faced significant capacity issues regarding skills and experience with its staff working on mortgage
supervision. Continued turnover and loss of staff poses a major issue for EFSA and its ability to
effectively perform its supervision duties.
71.     The risks have to some extent been mitigated by close dialogue with Egyptian authorities.
Two missions have visited Egypt following the revolution to discuss next steps.22 It is worth noting
that the CBE enjoys great stability, as the Governor of CBE has been renewed for another term in
2012—a main counterpart, and the chair of EMRC is now the Deputy Governor of CBE. As stated
above, the aims of the project and especially the follow-up Affordable Mortgage Finance Program
DPL are entirely compatible with the new government priorities, which will have a stronger focus on
social objectives and on attaining a more inclusive system. The overall mortgage framework is now
well established and will develop further as the political situation settles.
72.      However, the real estate sector has not been immune from global contagion. The Egyptian
property market was one of the first casualties, with a rapid slow down in transactions and a fall in
property prices. Market participants suggested that strong demand remains for real estate and that
investors and buyers are just holding back waiting for the economic situation to stabilize. A property
price bubble may have just been forming with a rise in speculative demand. Property prices fell by as
much as 230 percent during 2009 and mortgage transactions also dropped significantly during the
same period. Lastly, the large inflows of funds from the Gulf countries, which were concentrated on
real estate, slowed down as investment prospects looked more uncertain.



22
  Supervision missions were held on January 10-16, 2011 and February 20-24, 2011 (post-revolution), as well as another on
June 27-30, 2011.

                                                           17
73.     Implications on bond issuance and sustainability of EMRC. It is worth noting that the Egypt
Mortgage Finance Project has fully disbursed before the closing date, and all its indicators were met at
the end of the lifetime of the project, despite the unexpected external risks associated with the global
financial crisis and the Egyptian January 25th revolution, except for the bond issuance indicator.23 The
global financial crisis earlier then currently the political and economic situation in Egypt, were not
conducive for bond issuance. The global financial crisis did not allow for bond issuance, and
nowadays there is no business case for EMRC to issue its bond in light of the Egyptian authorities‘
decisions announced as a result of the revolution. For example, the government is currently issuing
Treasury Bills with an interest rate as high as 14 percent, during the current transition phase in
Egypt—which raises a cost issue on EMRC and will not allow EMRC to issue a compatible bond,
desirable to investors.
74.    The risks of a new institution being the main implementing vehicle EMRC for the project
were mitigated in the following ways, which ensured its sustainability:
             Capacity building of EMRC. Close monitoring of EMRC‘s activity by the Bank through
            regular supervision missions, in addition to day-to-day monitoring from the field with the
            change in task management of the project. The first seven deals made by EMRC had to be
            submitted to the World Bank for approval, including all risk assessments and supporting
            documentation. The Bank team drafted, reviewed and commented on all of the policies and
            manuals prepared for EMRC (Operational Manual, Business Plan, IT System, Financial
            Management System, Credit Policy, Asset and Liability Management Policy, and Ethics
            Policy). The Bank also provided support to EMRC in developing a clear and transparent
            pricing strategy which is communicated through its website with regular updates.
             Non-executive Board member—international expert. As mentioned later in Section 2.4,
            the World Bank is financing a non-executive director on the Board of EMRC who is able to
            bring considerable experience having himself been the CEO of the Malaysian Mortgage
            Liquidity Facility. He will also guide EMRC in supporting low-income housing, tapping on
            the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program DPL.
             IFC shareholdings. IFC as a shareholder also provided substantial support in the drafting
            of these documents and in designing the organizational and reporting structure of EMRC.24
             Recapitalization of EMRC by all shareholders, private and public, as well as CBE. The
            recapitalization would go hand in hand with the issuance of the bond that is planned by end of
            2012, once the economic and political situation stabilizes in Egypt post-elections. EMRC
            might also move forward with a potential follow-up World Bank operation, envisioned in the
            2008 CAS Progress Report as additional financing for mortgage, amounting to US$ 50 million.
             Government’s commitment. The authorities‘ commitment to the project, and to developing
            EMRC and the mortgage market in Egypt, helped significantly in addressing and in adjusting
            to the changing environment. Effective coordination among Egyptian authorities to further
            ensure sustainability and smooth implementation, as well as continuity of EMRC operations
            beyond the project‘s lifetime, the Deputy Governor of CBE has been appointed as the Chair of
            EMRC, and the Chair of MFF has been appointed as the Deputy Chair of EMRC.




23
     Although EMRC has already advanced with bond issuance preparation. Details in Section 2.4.


                                                             18
2.2.     Project Implementation
75.      Capacity building of EMRC. As mentioned earlier, close monitoring of EMRC‘s activity by
the Bank took place through regular supervision missions, in addition to day-to-day monitoring from
the field with the change in task management of the project. The first seven deals made by EMRC had
to be submitted to the World Bank for approval, including all risk assessments and supporting
documentation. The Bank team reviewed and commented on all of the policies and manuals prepared
for EMRC (Operational Manual, Business Plan, IT System, Financial Management System, Credit
Policy, Asset and Liability Management Policy, and Ethics Policy). The Bank also provided support to
EMRC in developing a clear and transparent pricing strategy which is communicated through its
website25 with regular updates.
76.      Actions taken in response to problems—amendments to legal documents.26 The team was
responsive to clients' needs and changes in the market in numerous incidents. Having anticipated a rise
in international interest rates, the team approached the Treasury immediately requesting approval for
amendments in Legal Agreement (replacing swap rate by average yield of 12-months Treasury Bills).
In another occasion, the team was also responsive to the issuance of the new Tax Law by the Ministry
of Finance, which taxed T-Bills (and not securities) based on which interest rate was determined,
distorting the market; and requested immediately exemptions from the Treasury Department of the
World Bank, which had approved to avoid market distortions and ensure a level playing field. All this
has facilitated project implementation and timely disbursement. The team has worked closely with the
Egyptian authorities to ensure smooth implementation of the project.
77.     Adjustments during project implementation—midterm review. The revisions made during the
midterm review reveals the team‘s responsiveness to clients needs and the unexpected changes in the
global financial environment. A World Bank midterm review mission for the Mortgage Finance
Project visited Cairo from July 4–12, 2010.27 The main objective of the midterm was to reassess the
project objectives, their relevance in light of the new local and global circumstances, and the
likelihood of achieving them. The mission also evaluated the implementation performance and
financing requirements, and discussed with the counterparts the possible, if any, need for a change in
project scope, and restructuring required, as well as the disbursement projections. The mission
assessed progress achieved to ensure that the required institutional and implementation arrangements
of the operation are executed in accordance to the work plan. The mission looked at all aspects related
to the development of the liquidity facility—EMRC, its operational activities, corporate governance,
financial management policies, reporting arrangement and disbursement issues, management and
regulatory environment.
78.     Particular attention was given to EMRC's preparations for a first bond issuance and the
possible delay due to the market developments, with an attempt to identify other funding sources,
including the possible options for recapitalizing EMRC, as well as potential follow-up additional
financing from the World Bank. The mission also discussed with the authorities progress made in
property registration. Revised projections were set out in the restructuring paper. Some targets were
altered during the midterm review based on reassessment of the project‘s original development
objectives, and in light of the new circumstances and changes in the environment. The changes to the
project involved a revision of three of the monitoring and outcome indicators that were presented
during the design phase of the operation—the targets of which would not be met (see Section 1.3 on
Indicators and their revision).


25
   www.emrc-online.eg
26
   A number of unexpected changes in the legal and regulatory environments required two amendments to the project‘s legal
documents in August and October 2007.
27
   Taking into account the project started actual implementation in November 2007.

                                                           19
79.      Post-revolution adjustments. The revolution that began in Egypt in January 25, 2011, the
recent economic and political developments associated with it, as well as the current uncertainty has
led to a number of risks and challenges, (Section 2.1 provides details on the risks and implications of
the revolution) as well as opportunities. The macroeconomic environment and a conducive business
environment are critical for the stability of the financial sector and the development of the mortgage
market. Hence, the faltering growth following the global crisis, the economic slowdown post-
revolution, and the political uncertainty, along with the erosion of international reserves and ratings
downgraded, will have implications on the mortgage market, and the project. The rise in
unemployment, and the loss of jobs of those working in the sectors that were most affected, such as
tourism could lead to the rise in NPLs, and deterioration in the asset quality of banks involved in
mortgage finance, as well as less appetite to take mortgage loans. In addition, the banks' purchase of
bonds will crowd-out private sector lending, including that for housing loans. All this made the
issuance of the EMRC bond unfeasible, although the preparation work had already been done. To help
authorities mitigate the unforeseen risks associated with the revolution, two emergency missions were
held.

2.3.    Safeguard Compliance
80.     Not Applicable.

2.4.    Post Completion Operation/Next Phase
81.      Transition arrangements following project completion. To ensure continuity and a smooth
transition between the investment loan, the Mortgage Finance Project, and the follow-up Affordable
Mortgage Finance Program DPL, common team members were selected. The supervision team for the
investment loan that supported the establishment of the regulatory and institutional framework for an
efficient mortgage finance market set the grounds for the policy team that supported attaining a more
inclusive housing finance program. Given that EMRC is an integral part of this follow-up operation,
the mission team will still have regular visits to EMRC and provide technical support as necessary. As
part of the ongoing support, the World Bank is financing a non-executive director on the Board of
EMRC who is able to bring considerable experience having himself been the CEO of the Malaysian
Mortgage Liquidity Facility. So although the project is fully disbursed, the World Bank and
counterparts remain fully engaged with EMRC, and will look to support it as it eventually goes to the
bond market in pursuing a sustainable funding base.
82.     EMRC recapitalization and possible additional funding. As mentioned earlier, EMRC will
be moving forward with recapitalization by all shareholders, private and public, as well as CBE. The
recapitalization would go hand in hand with the issuance of the bond that is planned by end of 2012,
once the economic and political situation stabilizes in Egypt post-elections. EMRC might also move
forward with a potential follow-up World Bank operation, envisioned in the 2008 CAS Progress
Report as additional financing for mortgage, amounting to US$ 50 million—to help EMRC stay in
business until such time as it is able to issues its own bonds.
83.     Performance indicators. It is worth noting that the Egypt Mortgage Finance Project has fully
disbursed before the closing date, and all its indicators were met at the end of the lifetime of the
project, despite the unexpected external risks associated with the global financial crisis and the
Egyptian January 25th revolution, except for the bond issuance indicator. The project is assessed as
successful because all the project‘s base case projections, as well as those envisioned under the
midterm review, were met. Growth in mortgage lending by primary lenders and the lengthening of the
term structure of mortgage lending were realized before the closing date of the project. EMRC is still
continuing on a growth path following the completion of the project, and has achieved financial
sustainability on a market basis. Despite market distortions caused by the new Tax Law (taxing T-bills

                                                  20
while exempting securities), and unexpected changes at the local and global levels (the global financial
crisis and the January 25th Egyptian revolution), the project managed to proceed in a smooth manner.
Effective coordination among Egyptian authorities to further ensure sustainability and smooth
implementation, as well as continuity of EMRC operations, the Deputy Governor of CBE has been
appointed as the Chair of EMRC, and the Chair of MFF has been appointed as the Deputy Chair of
EMRC.
84.      Almost all project outcome and output indicators have been met, some of which have
exceeded the target figure. The targets for both of the project‘s outcome indicators have been fully
achieved (See Section 3.2 for details on Indicators) however; the launching of the bond did not
materialize despite all the preparatory work that was done. To reach full sustainability over the long
term EMRC needs to be able to raise its own funding through the issuance of corporate bonds. Several
factors worked against this during the lifetime of the project. Firstly, the pricing of the World Bank
loan to EMRC did not create a sufficient incentive to move to bond financing. Secondly, a steep rise in
interest rates soon after project started, made bond financing very expensive. This increased the
attractiveness of deposits as a funding tool as the rates on these did not alter greatly in line with the
pricing of other liabilities. Lastly the revolution in 2011 made it impossible to issue any bonds during
the last part of the project.
85.     The sustainability of EMRC is largely assured as previously discussed. Much of the
preparation work a bond issue has already been done, with an offering prospectus partly drafted.
EMRC has advanced with bond issuance preparation, and is holding discussions with three investment
banks, EFSA, and a local rating agency. Bond issuance is planned by end of 2012, once the political
and economic environment had stabilized in Egypt, after having elected a new Parliament, Cabinet,
and President. As indicated clearly in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), EMRC‘s bond issuance
needs to be done at prices favorable for EMRC operations. There was no economic sense to issue the
bond at the original time projected by the project in the design phase, after the repercussions of the
unanticipated global financial crisis that hit in 2008. Currently, there is no business case either for
EMRC to issue its bond in light of the implications of the revolution. As mentioned earlier, the
government is currently issuing Treasury Bills with an interest rate as high as 14 percent, which raises
a cost issue on EMRC and will not allow it to issue a compatible bond, desirable to investors.
Secondly, through its own capital resources and some of the reflows from the loans it has made, it has
resources remaining for refinance operations. Thirdly, the government has indicated its willingness to
inject some capital into EMRC, for the purposes of supporting low-income housing. It is clearly
understood though that EMRC will remain a majority owned private institution.
86.      Lastly, the World Bank may be in a position to lend further funds to EMRC to support Egypt
during the transition period post revolution, not only for the funding but more important for the
technical assistance, advisory services and regular monitoring to EMRC to ensure a successful bond
issuance to help it stay in business until such time as it is able to issues its own bonds. It is critical that
the Bank provides adequate support to EMRC during the post-revolution transition period, this could
be done through a new line of credit to EMRC which would support the institution until financial
markets stabilize and bond issuance becomes feasible. The loan could amount to US$ 50 million or
equivalent in local currency. The pricing of the loan could be based on the synthetic pricing
methodology developed in the framework of the Tanzania HFP project and being applied in the
framework of the UEMOA CRH project, given the weakness of the medium and long-term domestic
government bond yield curve. Given the current problems in Egypt‘s capital market, such a loan could
be justified as ‗bridging‘ the transition period post-revolution until such time as EMRC is able to tap
local resources.
87.    As mentioned earlier (and confirmed by the government in Annex 5), EMRC will be moving
forward with recapitalization by all its shareholders to further ensure its operations sustainability and

                                                      21
continuity, which will go hand in hand with the bond issuance planned for end of 2012, in addition to
the proposed potential follow-up additional financing by the World Bank.
88.      Compatible operation. Building on the Mortgage Finance Project, a follow-up operation is
already well under way in the form of the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program DPL, which has
already disbursed two tranches of US$100 million, (amounting to US$200 million) out of a total loan
of US$300 million. The main developmental objective of this DPL is to enhance access to finance for
low income housing through reforming the current system of inefficient and poorly targeted supply-
side subsidies for housing for the broad low and middle income sector and replace them with a
transparent and economically efficient demand-side subsidy system. In that context, EMRC plays a
vital role in enhancing access to housing finance as the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program has
refinancing needs.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
89.      The relevance of objectives, design and implementation is considered satisfactory, based on:
(i) the consistency of the program with the government and Bank priorities; (ii) quality of the design;
and (iii) adequate implementation that resulted in significant achievements (listed below).
90.     Relevance of objectives. The project‘s development objective was for primary lenders in the
financial market (both banks and non-bank lenders) to provide longer-term, market-based mortgage
loan financing for residential housing. Such financing is scarce, in part because primary lenders do not
have reliable access to sources of term finance on favorable terms that could help them to mitigate the
associated business and lending risks. The EMRC objective was to provide such a source of long-term
funding.
91.      The higher level objective to which the project contributes was the development of a more
competitive and efficient financial sector, which is consistent with the government and the Bank‘s
priorities. According to the Egypt CAS of May 20, 2005, the advancement of the financial sector
objective is a key supporting goal for an even higher level strategic CAS objective of facilitating
private sector development. The project has helped the government to develop new financial sector
activities that are normally found in a modem, well functioning financial system. An expected CAS
outcome to be influenced by the World Bank Group is the realization of a more efficient and
responsive financial sector that includes a modem residential mortgage market, for which the CAS
envisages Bank intervention through project lending.
92.      The creation of a market-based residential mortgage finance system is a high priority for the
government, and a CAS goal because of the very substantial benefits it would generate for the
economy and the population, particularly in the housing sector. Also, it would facilitate progress
towards the realization of another important strategic CAS objective of promoting social equity, by
improving access to longer-term housing finance, and, correspondingly, improving the affordability of
housing. Despite the considerable progress made in developing the housing market recently in Egypt,
there is still a major gap in the broad middle-income housing market. This is mainly associated with
high house prices relative to incomes and lack of access to mortgage finance because of high interest
rates and down-payment requirements. This middle-income group could have better access to the
housing market, if they receive some assistance to access long-term mortgage finance, which the
project achieved.
93.     Quality of the design. The design of the operation was innovative, and at the same time
simple. It is relatively simple in structure as it comprises only one major component in the form of
EMRC‘s mortgage refinancing program. As mentioned earlier, the project was referred to as an

                                                  22
example of innovative and good practice in the IBRD Strategy for Engagement with MIC, specifically
for its innovative design and integrated approach. It also received the MENA VPU Team Awards for
2011 for being exemplary in bringing the World Bank Group together. The project established the first
mortgage liquidity facility in Egypt, EMRC, which enhanced access to long-term funds, and benefited
the lower income sectors of society as it was also involved in refinancing loans at concessional rates
under the NHP and the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program. Also, this project followed an
innovative approach in the structuring of the loan being in local currency using Egypt‘s capital with
the World Bank, allowing the authorities to hedge for foreign exchange risk.
94.     The project was designed in a truly participatory way through frequent meetings with key
technical counterparts in the government, market players and stakeholders, which ensured ownership
and commitment, evident in the willingness of the government to support the sustainability, and
growth of EMRC, as well as continuity of its operations. This was also confirmed by the change in
EMRC‘s management and leadership with calibers and expertise required for the current and coming
period in Egypt. The project design was also based on extensive and frequent consultations with a
range of developers and lenders, both banks and non-depository financial institutions, as well as
beneficiaries and market players.
95.      Adequate supervision and monitoring of implementation. Despite the delay in ratification,
regular supervision had significantly helped in speeding up the disbursement and in achieving the
project‘s objectives. Also, since the change in the Bank‘s task management from headquarters to the
field in July 2006, day to day supervision helped in the provisions of advisory services, contributing to
achieving the project‘s intermediate outcomes, and outputs. In addition, Bank experts during periodic
missions provided technical assistance, which helped in building the capacity of EMRC, and
facilitated the setting up of the IT systems, the financial management system, drafting the and the
operational manual and the business plan. To ensure sustainability and smooth continuity of
operations, the Deputy Governor of CBE was appointed as Chair of EMRC, and the Chair of MFF as
Deputy Chair of EMRC. This also ensured effective coordination among the different government
bodies in developing the mortgage market further, and it also reveals the new vision and direction of
EMRC to cater low-income housing.

3.2.    Achievement of Project Development Objectives
96.     The reforms implemented by the Mortgage Finance Project have yielded some of the most
impressive results Egypt has seen in the financial sector. The project led to banks and mortgage
companies to have access to longer term funding through EMRC, which was established and
operational providing longer term funding to banks and mortgage companies. This contributed to the
growth in the volume of mortgage loan portfolio. All this helped in improving access and costs of
housing finance in Egypt, attaining a more inclusive system.
97.     Achievements have also included:
           An increase in volume of market-based mortgage loans from LE 300 million in 2006 to
            LE 4.5 billion in 2011 exceeding the initial target of L.E 4 billion (Figure 2).
           An increase in the length of term to maturity of a mortgage from 7 years in 2006 to 16
            years in 2011, exceeding the target of 15 years.
           An increase in mortgage finance companies from 2 in 2006 to 12 in 2011 (Figure 3), much
            beyond the target of 6 companies.
           A rise in bank lending for mortgages from LE 12 million in 2006 to LE 2.6 billion in 2011
            (Figure 4).
           An increase in the volume of PML borrowings from the liquidity facility, EMRC from nil
            to LE 450 million in 2011, again exceeding the target of L.E 400 million (Figure 5).

                                                   23
                                                                  Figure 3: Lengthening of Term to Maturity Structure of
       Figure 2: Volume of Market-based Mortgage Loans
                                                                              Market Based Mortgage Lending
             Extended by Primary Lenders Annually




                                                                 Source: EFSA (2011).
       Source: EFSA (2011).
   Figure 4: Number of Primary Lenders Extending Mortgage            Figure 5: Volume of Primary Mortgage Lenders
                            Loans                                                Borrowings from EMRC




       Source: EFSA (2011).                                  Source: EMRC (2011).



3.3.       Efficiency
98.     The project's financial management (FM) arrangements were consistently found to be
―Satisfactory". The establishment and maintenance of the FM arrangements were assigned to EMRC
Finance Department which employs well trained staff with sound banking background in reputable
banking institutions and who are paid competitively according to the private sector salary scales. Clear
segregation of duties within the Finance Department was always adhered to as per the established
Financial Policies and Procedures Manual. Recording and reporting was executed through sound
automated accounting MIS (ORACLE) which is capable of generating the quarterly Interim Financial
Reports (IFRs) and annual Financial Statements required under the loan umbrella. All of the IFRs
were timely received, reviewed and found acceptable.
99.      EMRC adopted the reimbursement disbursement method throughout the entire life of the
project. This was possible since the EMRC is a revenue generating entity and accordingly, possesses
adequate financial resources. EMRC organizational structure includes an independent Internal Audit
function and adheres to sound Internal Control system and good corporate governance for financial
management.


                                                            24
100.    Within the project life all of the audit reports were timely received, reviewed and found
acceptable by the Bank. All of the audit reports were unqualified.

3.4.    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
101.   The overall outcome rating for the Mortgage Finance Project is ―satisfactory‖, based on
meeting its key development objectives, and in making all the achievements listed in section 3.2.

3.5.    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impacts and Social Development
102.     Although the project did not have explicit social development outcomes as objectives, it did
facilitate the implementation of the newly adopted Affordable Mortgage Finance Program—
considered to be the second source of new business for EMRC. This program will have refinancing
needs, which would be done on a commercial basis with EMRC taking a spread over its cost of funds.
Some concessions may be made on the loan documentation where loans to lower income groups may
have different ways of checking income and also the seasoning requirement may be relaxed. However,
this risk would be counterbalanced by a minimum deposit of 20 percent, and a portion of the loan
repayment already guaranteed as it will be covered by the MFF. As recommended by the team, it is
important that EMRC play an active part in supporting the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program.
The program should be done in a way which ensures compliance with EMRC‘s refinancing
requirements and facilitates the process of using loans under the program as eligible collateral.
103.    Providing a shelter for the low-and middle-income households is one of the key demands of
the Egyptian Revolution. Attaining a more inclusive housing finance system will be critical in the
coming period in Egypt. With the current political developments in Egypt post revolution, the
Affordable Mortgage Finance Program DPL, which was based on the Mortgage Finance Project and
relies heavily on EMRC, becomes more crucial and instrumental in catering the demands of the
Egyptian people especially the low-income segment of society. This operation in particular has a
strong social objective and the way in which it caters to low and middle income households speaks to
many of the concerns brought forward by the recent revolution, represented by the youth, civil society,
and the Egyptian community. By reforming the housing subsidy mechanisms, the operation helps
Egypt to move from an economy that has been serving a privileged few to an economy that promotes
competition.
104.    Finally, the Mortgage Finance Project has also contributed to the creation of jobs through
public works, construction, and building houses. Housing is the most visible indicator of social well-
being and it is politically important for governments to guarantee reasonable standards of housing for
the majority of the population. In addition, housing is a large part of the economy, and has a strong
multiplier effect. One of the most significant characteristics of investing in the housing sector is
unlocking job creation opportunities, leading to attaining sustainable and inclusive economic growth.

Institutional Strengthening
105.     A number of institutions have benefited in particular from the Mortgage Finance Project; these
are the EMRC, MFA, EFSA, MFF, the Ministry of State for Administrative Development, the
Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Housing Utilities and Urban Development. It is worth noting
that key government advisors and senior staff from several governmental institutions received training,
in the context of the Mortgage Finance Project, in housing finance and housing subsidy design at the
International Housing Finance Program at Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, which
facilitated constructive exchanges and cross country best practices and experiences on how to develop
further the mortgage sector and expand it to reach low and middle income groups.

                                                  25
106.    EMRC, in particular benefited from substantial input right from its creation. Together with
IFC, the World Bank provided technical support and advisory services across a range of areas but in
particular in defining the business model, operating procedures, and risk management framework.
Bank experts have helped in drafting the operational manual, the business plan, setting up the IT
systems, and setting up the financial management system. In addition to activating the website, and
drafting the pricing strategy.
107.    MFA also benefited from substantial inputs into the regulatory framework for mortgages. This
was done in partnership with USAID, and included looking at how the Real Estate Finance Law
should be implemented, as well as issues such as consumer protection, 28 regulation of loans for
construction purposes, and feasibility assessment for the development of mortgage insurance. The
regulatory framework for supervising the activities of EMRC was also included and covered as part of
World Bank supervision missions. The creation of MFA, in support of the Bank, was a key step in
creating a secure and strong regulatory environment to protect the interests of lenders and consumers.
108.     EFSA. Underpinning the non-bank financial sector reforms in Egypt was the strengthening of
its regulatory and supervisory framework. The aim was to ensure its soundness and lay the basis for
broader access to finance through non-bank financial institutions including the capital market, the
stock exchange, insurance services, mortgage finance, financial leasing, factoring and securitization.
The first step in this program, which has been supported by the Bank through the series of financial
sector DPLs amounting to US$1.5 billion, was the issuance of Law 10 of 200929 which regulates non-
banking financial markets, institutions and instruments and has consolidated the regulatory bodies of
non-bank financial sector through the establishment of the EFSA—the integrated non-bank financial
supervisor. The unification of these regulatory and supervisory objectives under the EFSA, coupled
with unifying the Auditors Oversight Board to cover all non-bank institutions, enhances the
transparency and reliability of financial reporting in the non-banking sector. EFSA, became
operational on July 1, 2009, replaced the three authorities regulating the main non-bank financial
services, namely the Capital Market Authority (CMA), the Egyptian Insurance Supervisory Authority
(EISA), and the MFA. EFSA has benefited from the Mortgage Finance Project team experts, who
continually provided technical assistance and advisory services—which helped in building the
capacity of the institution.
109.    MFF, being part of the project, considerable effort was put into supporting the government‘s
mechanisms for creating incentives for lenders to go to lower income borrowers. The Affordable
Mortgage Finance Program DPL resulted in a substantial restructuring of the housing subsidy system.
A new subsidy mechanism has been created to be administered by the MFF which is the new
organization born out of the ‗subsidy‘ part of the GSF. MFF have been receiving capacity building
from several international Bank experts. All of this work was initiated in the Mortgage Finance Project,
which paved the way for later support by the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program DPL.
110.    Ministry of State for Administrative Development, Ministry of Justice, and Ministry of
Housing, Utilities and Urban Development. The Bank has been working closely with the three
responsible ministries in streamlining property registration procedures. A main pillar of developing the



28
   The Bank team reviewed the main provisions of consumer protection measures in Egypt. Many consumer protection
features are engrained in Real Estate Finance Law 148 such as a cap on payment to income, limits on the loan to value, limits
on the variability of interest rates through the use of indices. The practice of using post-dated checks to facilitate payment or
as a means of security should gradually be phased out. It is an extreme and archaic device which has disappeared in many
countries. The terms and conditions for a mortgage loan within the contract are clear, well defined and standard. However
they only become available to the consumer at the point of signing.
29
   The issuance of the law and the establishment of EFSA were key pillars of the World Bank‘s Third Financial Sector DPL
supporting Egypt‘s Financial Sector Reform Program.

                                                              26
mortgage market is land titling and streamlining property registration. In partnership with the Bank,
the Ministry of State for Administrative Development took the lead in coordinating efforts among all
stakeholders, namely, development partners and the different governmental institutions, such as the
Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, and the Surveying Authority to streamline property
registration and land titling procedures. Among the efforts was a pilot project that took place in the
Mokkatam registration district carried out by the Ministry of Justice with the assistance of USAID in
2006-2007, which resulted in some improvements to the procedures for registration of deeds,
particularly by pioneering the concept of a one-stop-shop for registration services, simplifying some
procedures and applying electronic technology to the registration process, but the results of that
project were never ―rolled out‖ to other districts because of lack of financial resources.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
111.     Cross-regional benefits—exporting of project to sub-Saharan Africa. The project in Egypt
has been used as the template for a similar operation, the Tanzania Housing Finance Project, which is
the first such project in sub-Saharan Africa. The experience and knowledge gained in Egypt has been
invaluable in setting up the Tanzania Mortgage Refinance Company and getting it operational in the
minimum delay. In addition, other projects are currently under preparation in Nigeria and for the West
Africa Economic and Monetary Union. Preparation of these projects will draw heavily on the lessons
and experience of this project in Egypt.
112.      Streamlining property registration. As mentioned above, there have also been tangible
impacts and notable improvements in property registration, which goes beyond the project main
objectives, but had contributed to the achievements of the key targets. This includes the fast track
registration system for new houses, through the nationwide mapping and titling program, and the
drastic reduction in registration fees. The government has also recently launched a systematic title-
adjudication, survey, and registration process to modernize the property registration system. All this
led to: (i) streamlining and improving the property registration process with costs being cut by half and
steps reduced from 23 to 7; (ii) reduction in the cost of deed or title registration from 12 percent of the
value of the property, to 6 percent, to a further 3 percent to its current maximum flat fee of LE 2,000
(Figure 6); and (iii) initiation of a fast track foreclosure system. The Bank team also worked closely
with the Ministry of State for Administrative Development on the tri-partite agreement and its
amendments, regarding streamlining property registration in the new urban communities.


        Figure 6: Procedures for Streamlining and Cutting Cost of Property Registration




113.     Empowering titling and land registration in new communities. A protocol was signed by the
NUCA and MFA, on September 21, 2006, to stimulate registration in the new urban communities. The
protocol provides for the transformation of the Takhssiss form of land allocation (a conditional
transfer of ownership) into a legal instrument acceptable by lenders. This is achieved through NUCA‘s
authorization of landholders to mortgage their contract (in effect converting it to ownership), provided
that they paid NUCA the full land price. The other measures were the cancellation by NUCA of a
transfer fee equal to 10 percent of the land value, and authorizing partial registration of land in large
developments, on the condition that developers have been making regular payments so far and that the

                                                    27
completed payments equaled the full price for the partial area that they wish to register. To facilitate
implementation, the MFA worked closely with the Ministry of Justice to issue three circulars that were
widely distributed to all Real Estate Publicity Directorate (REPD) offices. The first, dated January 24,
2007, lists the procedures governing the authentication of mortgage contracts, the registration of a
mortgage as an encumbrance on the land, the requirement of lender approval as a precondition for
registration of subsequent transactions on mortgaged properties, and procedures associated with
foreclosure. The second circular, dated March 25, 2007, disseminated the protocol‘s text and
instructed REPD offices to facilitate block registration of NUCA landholdings (a prerequisite to the
subsequent registration of Takhssiss contracts). The third was a clarification note from MFA on the
tripartite contract.



                     Box 1: Developing a Mortgage Finance System in Egypt

 One of the central goals of Egypt‘s Financial Sector Reform Program was to create a vibrant mortgage
 lending market. A number of major reforms have been undertaken to achieve this. The building blocks
 for housing finance which were put into place include:
         Issuance of the Real Estate Finance Law 148 of 2001—the basis for all the reforms, which set
          up the institutions to regulate the mortgage sector, creating the Guarantee and Subsidy Fund,
          and setting the rules for the types of loan products which banks and mortgage finance
          companies could offer borrowers.
         Creation of MFA, whose functions were incorporated in EFSA in July 2009—a key step in
          creating a secure and strong regulatory environment to protect the interests of lenders and
          consumers. The importance of strong regulation has been underlined during the current crisis.
         Establishment of a mortgage liquidity facility—the Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company
          (EMRC), that enhances access to long-term funds which is crucial for the establishment of
          long-term lending.
         Enforcement of foreclosure—the ability to enforce the collateral is essential to lenders if they
          are to give value to the collateral in a secured loan. The first cases of foreclosure went through
          the courts in 2008, setting the necessary precedents to give comfort to mortgage lenders.
         Streamlined property registration—this has been significantly improved, through a nationwide
          mapping and titling program. In addition the time it takes to register a mortgage and the fees
          charged have been significantly reduced.
         Consumer Protection and Financial Education—minimum disclosure requirements pertaining
          to loan information and programs of consumer education are being run by the EFSA. This
          aims to familiarize Egyptian consumers with a new financial product and to ensure that they
          are aware of the terms and conditions of the product when taking out a loan
         Setting up of a private credit bureau—i-Score to provide timely and accurate information on
          credit worthiness, which would improve underwriting process and lower credit risk for
          lenders.
 These building blocks above have helped Egypt to gradually develop its mortgage sector, attracting
 foreign capital into the sector and a steady growth of mortgage loans both in number and geographic
 spread around the country.




                                                     28
114.     Collateral enforcement and foreclosure procedures, the enactment of the Real Estate Finance
Law has led to a series of court cases, which have started to provide precedents that can give comfort
to mortgage lenders. However, it is worth noting that a great deal of work remains to be done in terms
of mapping and surveying property in Egypt before the full benefits of the reforms can be appreciated
and reflected in a more vibrant mortgage and property market. The project also helped in alleviating
existing, serious constraints hindering reliable, easy and quick registration and transfer of property
titles and mortgage liens by homeowners and mortgage lenders, particularly in the new urban
communities. As a result of reforms in the judicial system, greater enforceability of contracts exists,
including foreclosure procedures. In that regard, the specialized economic courts were created after a
law was issued, with judges trained in economic issues. 30

3.6.      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
115.      Not applicable.

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
116.    As mentioned previously, there were two major unexpected developments during the time of
the project implementation; the global financial crisis in late 2008, and the Egyptian Revolution in
January 2011. The unforeseen risks associated with these developments were not taken into account
(unlike other risks already foreseen during project preparation mitigation measures were considered);
however, the Bank team took them into account and responded promptly to the changing environment
and provided support to the authorities on means of mitigating and dealing with such unexpected risks.
Some of these risks include:
117.     Deteriorating macroeconomic environment.31 The macroeconomic environment is critical for
the stability of the financial sector and the development of the mortgage market. Hence, the faltering
growth following the global crisis and the slowdown post-revolution will have implications on the
mortgage market, and the project. However, the authorities managed to mitigate some these risks. The
rise in unemployment and the loss of jobs of those working in the sectors that were most affected, such
as tourism and construction could lead to the rise in NPLs, and deterioration in the asset quality of
banks involved in mortgage finance, as well as less appetite to take mortgage loans. In addition, the
banks' purchase of bonds will crowd-out private sector lending, including that for housing loans.




30
 The creation of specialized economic courts, and the issuance of the law, was supported by the series of financial sector
DPLs, amounting to US$ 1.5 billion.

31
  Post-revolution, the macroeconomic environment has deteriorated, and the economic growth has slowed down. GDP was
negatively affected by the social disruptions that occurred. Tourist arrivals and hotel occupancy fell substantially in what is
normally the ―high‖ season. Construction and demand for investment goods are likely to be lower as a result of uncertainty
regarding the policy stance of the new Parliament and President. In December 2010 the Egyptian economy was recovering
from the effect of the global crisis: GDP was growing at a 5.5 percent (y-o-y), unemployment had fallen to 8.9 percent,
international reserves reached US$ 36 billion, and CBE had US$7 billion additional deposits in commercial banks. The
public deficit was forecasted to be 7.9 percent of GDP. After the January 2011 revolution, the growth forecast for the year
was revised downward to one percent and, the public deficit is estimated to be approximately 9.5 percent of GDP. The
projected drop in GDP growth, the decline in investments, and the returning migrant workers from Libya will pressure
upward the unemployment rate. Given that tourism and construction are the most heavily affected sectors and both are labor
intensive, it would not be a surprise to see the unemployment rate increase by two to three percentage points. The limited
space to do any fiscal stimulus plan makes it imperative for private investment and consumption to retake their roles as
engines for growth.


                                                             29
118.     Erosion of international reserves and ratings downgraded. Substantial and continuous
erosion of Egypt's international reserves had taken place in 2011. It accelerated in October and
November 2011, along with ongoing political turbulence which is delaying economic recovery and has
contributed to worsened debt dynamics. CBE has announced that net foreign reserves had fallen to
reach $18.12 billion as of December 2011 (as opposed to US$ 36 billion in December 2010). CBE
deposits in commercial banks had evaporated, due mostly to liquidation of foreigner's holding of T-
bills. Egyptian sovereign ratings and banks‘ ratings (which generally must be below the sovereign
rating), have been downgraded by three rating agencies.
119.     Non-conducive business environment that lowers appetite to borrow and extend mortgage
loans. There are constraints in Egypt hindering the investment climate from being conducive to the
private sector, which is characterized as being uncompetitive. This business climate might discourage
private shareholders of EMRC, such as HSBC, Piraeus, CIB, NSGB, and Banque Misr to contribute in
the recapitalization, making EMRC majority owned by the public sector, contrary to the ultimate goal
of being private sector-led. The only way Egypt can unleash the real potential of the private sector is to
move from nurturing a privileged class of entrepreneurs to allowing a level of playing field for all
classes and businesses. To do so, Egypt must ensure that it creates a conducive policy environment
through allowing the smooth entry and exit of private businesses, reduced red tape, speedier licensing
approvals and access to land, and reduced regulatory rigidity. Also, ―good governance‖ is central to
this agenda. Transparency, accountability and quality of service in public agencies must be at the core
of reform. There has also been a lingering perception, especially by the Minister of Housing, Utilities
and Urban Development that the government is more efficient and committed to developing the
housing and mortgage finance sectors.
120.     Political uncertainty. The new Parliament dominated by the Islamist groups, and the change
in government, and the election of the new President will have implications on the economic
orientation of the country, and accordingly, on the path the mortgage finance market will pursue.
There could be change in policies and strategies, as well as rules and regulations, which EMRC has to
comply with. This would be a major reason why some developers and mortgage companies would be
in the mood of observing before they expand their lending or make new investments. The revolution
has brought tremendous political and economic uncertainty for investors, and a new government will
need a clear, market-friendly strategy based on inclusive consultation to restore clarity and confidence,
while enhancing opportunity for new investors.
121.     Changes in the government and leadership at the Ministry of State for Administrative
Development, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban Development
are likely to require further briefing on the project. Moreover, a new government will be formed
following the Parliamentary elections, (both Upper and Lower House). The new government will need
to also be briefed on the project and its developmental objectives.
122.     Funding EMRC the full disbursement of the World Bank loan means that EMRC is now fully
reliant on its own fundraising capabilities to continue operations. This will take the form of a bond
issue and a private placement to raise further capital. Both of these initiatives are likely to be delayed
as financial markets remain disrupted. This means that EMRC may not be in a position to offer
refinancing until it has established an alternative source of funds, and the Bank needs to reconsider the
potential follow-up operation, amounting to US$ 50 million. However, it is worth noting that in the
long-run it is critical for the sustainability of EMRC to issue bonds. The structure needs to become
autonomous, and should not be fully dependent on donors or the government. The former case is
illustrated in Palestine and the latter In Algeria, both created in the late 1990s with Bank support.
Further Banks support would be specifically to support Egypt in a period of transition, post revolution
to move forward with the reforms that are critical to improving affordability of housing finance and
attaining an inclusive system.

                                                   30
123.     Macro-financial issue of “crowding-out? by government borrowing. The high government
deficit, and the sell-off of its bonds indicate that the risk of public sector borrowing is crowding-out
banks lending to the private sector. As mentioned earlier, the government is currently issuing Treasury
Bills with an interest rate as high as 14 percent, during the current transition phase in Egypt—which
raises a cost issue on EMRC, and will not allow EMRC to issue a compatible bond, desirable to
investors.
124.     Delays in the Affordable Mortgage Finance Program is expected, although the program in
particular is at a critical launch stage which requires full support from the Egyptian government. The
transition period, the interim government, changes in ministries‘ leadership and its uncertainties may
lead to delays in the implementation of the programs. This program is a major source of business to
EMRC, as it has refinancing needs—as mentioned earlier.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
125.     Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, for the following reasons: (i) the project team paid
particular attention to ensuring high quality at entry for this operation. The loan identification and
design were consistent with the CAS, and the recommendations put forward by the 2002 FSAP;
(ii) the Bank was instrumental in taking full advantage of a window of opportunity presented by the
reformist government that led to this major progress in developing the mortgage market in Egypt;
(iii) sound preparatory work, strong policy dialogue, good working relationships with government
counterparts, high level of consultation with market participants, and stakeholders led to the design of
a quality operation; and (iv) close coordination with the USAID, and other development partners as
well as with IFC, helped the government build the necessary capacity to implement the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
126.     Bank supervisory performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The supervision has gone
beyond the regular oversight of the project implementation, and provided advisory services and
guidance to the government on other housing finance issue. Hence the project has delivered more
than its initial development objective, and has reached out the low-income segment of the society.
The Bank conducted a midterm review, and around two supervision missions every year—a total of 12
supervision missions, two of which were after the January 25th revolution. The policy dialogue
continued with official counterparts throughout supervision despite change in management,
government and regime.
127.     Regular monitoring of the implementation of the operation was done regularly from the field
after the task management was moved from headquarters to the field in July 2006. In addition periodic
supervision missions equipped with high level international experts. These missions provided sound
technical advice and cross-country experience to the authorities. In addition, the team was responsive
to clients' needs and changes in the market in numerous incidents, and shared their expertise with
authorities to mitigate all unexpected risks—as evident earlier with amendments to legal documents
and adjustments during project implementation (Section 2.2). The missions followed up on progress
on the agreed indicators and discussed results with the different counterparts in the sector. The
supervision provided therefore a crucial channel through which the World Bank team was able to

                                                  31
continue to support and advise the government on the next steps. Post-revolution, two emergency
missions took place to guide authorities on means to mitigate unexpected risks associated with the
revolution, and changes that emerged with the political and economic developments.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
128.    The rating of satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the project was very
well designed, its PDO was in line with the Country‘s and the Bank‘s priorities, the indicators were
relevant, helped focus the supervision; (ii) the Bank was aware of the challenges involved in on the
legal and regulatory front, which were addressed by another complementary operation, the Financial
Sector Reform DPLs; (iii) from identification to closing, the team was extensively involved in a policy
dialogue with the authorities and independent counterparts, collaborating to ensure that the ultimate
goal of this operation would be achieved; and; (iv) the project team and the country office developed
an optimal level of cooperation that played a key role in the success of the operation.

5.2.    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
129.    From the design to implementation stage, the government was in the ―driver seat‖ seeking
advice from the Bank where needed to implement its strategic reform agenda. The authorities
remained focused on the success of the development objective as they saw its importance in
supporting the low-income housing program. In this context, the government took the initiative to
seek support from other donors according to their respective comparative advantage, and was keen on
ensuring good coordination between the various partners. The decision to request the Bank to play a
lead role succeeded in getting the best out of each donor‘s support and avoided waste that comes from
unclear donors mandate and overlap. The donors coordinating committee, chaired by the Bank, also
helped the Government address key financial sector issues on a timely and priority basis.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Implementing agencies
130.     The EMRC is the main agency responsible for the design and overall implementation of the
operation with support provided by the CBE and the Ministry of Investment. They were instrumental
to the success of this operation, and were systematic in the way they went about the design of the
operation, seeking advice from the Bank and other donors, to keep the implementation moving and get
support and advice when they encountered major challenges. The reporting and coordination of
actions between the concerned agencies was efficient and timely throughout the life of the project,
resulting in a successful operation that went far beyond compliance with identified outcomes as can be
seen. Their availability, knowledge and commitment allowed for a timely Board presentation and for
an effective implementation and disbursement, despite all political and economic developments at the
global and country levels. However, it is important to note that the success and sustainability of
EMRC remains partially contingent on a regular mobilization of market funding.




                                                  32
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
131.     The satisfactory rating is justified by the following: (i) the government of Egypt demonstrated
a clear ownership of the project. The respective responsibilities of the different stakeholders were
clearly defined reducing to a minimum the opportunities for overlapping or misunderstanding; and
(ii) the reform program reflected a clear and complete vision of needs of the financial sector. It was
complete, comprehensive, articulated around the most important issues and sequenced according to
priorities.

6.      Lessons Learned
132.     The main lesson learnt is that there are critical factors that contribute to the success of the
operations, mainly: prior analytical work; strong policy dialogue with the authorities; prompt response
to client‘s needs and the changing environment; provision of technical assistance; conducive legal and
regulatory framework; innovative and creative approaches; consultations with the different
stakeholders; close coordination with IFC; effective cooperation with development partners; and
overall flexibility in implementation of the reforms. All this was crucial to the successful
implementation of the project.
133.     Strong analytic underpinning. The 2002 FSAP, and its 2006 FSAP Update, helped lay a
credible blueprint for the design of this operation which in turn made easier the coordination of
donors‘ assistance around the realization of this blueprint. Given the multifaceted nature of the
financial reform effort, the contribution of many donors was needed. Also, the Mortgage Finance
Project benefited throughout the implementation phase from the 2007 report on Access to Finance and
Economic Growth; the 2008 IFC Financing Homes Report; and the 2007 Finance for All: Policies and
Pitfalls in Expanding Access report. In addition, the project took stock of recommendations made by
major studies that were also conducted by the Bank on urban development issues and the housing
sector in Egypt, including: the 2006 Egypt Public Land Management Strategy, the 2007 Analysis of
Housing Supply Mechanisms, and the 2007 Moving from a Program-Based to a Policy-Based
Approach to Housing in Egypt. These studies helped in guiding EMRC to focus its future transactions
and portfolio to low-middle income housing, as is evident in the refocus of EMRC‘s loan portfolio to
low-income housing.
134.     Mutual and effective working relationship with the authorities. This was critical not only for
EMRC‘s development but for the development of the real estate finance laws, regulations and policies
in the country. It required a team of professionals to go an extra mile and provide technical inputs, in
some cases beyond the confines of the project, such as the work on property registration, which the
team identifies as one of the hurdles in developing the mortgage market also advisory services for the
authorities would be important on that front.
135.    The close working relationship with the Egyptian authorities and implementing entities
demonstrated that with a relatively modest loan (of US $37 million), significant reforms were
implemented, being back by a strong leadership and political commitment. This was supplemented by
good policy advice and coordinated sector interventions. This best practice partnership framework is
among the key success factors of this operation. Indeed, the respective responsibilities were clearly
defined, including giving the authorities the flexibility needed to implement the reforms. Since the
Egyptian government had a clear vision of what was needed to be accomplished, cooperation and
coordination of support was the best approach.
136.   Responsiveness to the changing environment and provision to technical assistance when
needed. Regular monitoring of the economic environment, as well as the legal and regulatory
framework, helped in identifying constraints in developing the mortgage market and in project

                                                  33
implementation. A clear example is when the tax law was amended, removing tax performance on the
return on Treasury Bills and not on securities. The project agreement was amended to address such
market distortions on the benchmark that would have hindered execution. The project team also
worked closely with the authorities in addressing the challenges emerging from the revolution, in
ensuring a smooth implementation and timely delivery, as well as achievement of the projects‘ main
developmental objectives.
137.     Conducive legal and institutional infrastructure. The project revealed that deepening
financial markets, including secondary markets for loans and increasing institutional investment
opportunities, depends not only on creating frameworks for new financing mechanisms, but also on
conditions in the underlying market for primary lending and general economic activity. The success of
the project was also owed to good financial fundamentals, as well as, an extreme care in designing the
liquidity facility and its lending mechanisms to avoid both uncertainties in financial contracts and
distortions in the sector, a level, competitive playing field among primary lenders, and conducive
property registration and titling processes. Other lessons are that in emerging mortgage finance
systems, second-tier financial institutions should start with basic financial products and narrow
mandates in order for them to better manage and control risks in relatively new and untested product
markets, and that their operations should be regulated or overseen by an experienced financial sector
regulatory agency. One of the key lessons in that regards, is that the pre-requisites for a successful
mortgage market is adequate financial institutional infrastructure, a reliable property registration
systems, and effective legal and judicial processes for mortgage foreclosure. These pre-requisites
should be taken into account when designing future projects.
138.     Innovative and creative approaches. The success of the operation required the right balance
between flexibility in the implementation and pro-activity in providing technical assistance and
guidance where needed. This highly innovative operation in its own right aims to extend access to
housing finance to those who need it most through reforming the current system of inefficient and
poorly targeted supply-side subsidies for housing that were previously given to the developers and
replace them with a transparent and economically efficient demand-side subsidy system targeted to the
end beneficiaries. Also, this project followed an innovative approach in the structuring of the loan
being in local currency using Egypt‘s capital with the World Bank, allowing the authorities to hedge
for foreign exchange risk.
139.    Consultations with stakeholders and market participants. The Bank team also encouraged
the Egyptian authorities to conduct consultations with the various stakeholders, banks, mortgage
finance companies, regulatory bodies, CBE, and EFSA, as well as MFF. All this helped in mitigating
the risks, and in responding to the changes in the macroeconomic environment. In this respect, the
approach followed under this operation can be considered best practice and one that may benefit other
operations outside Egypt.
140.    Close cooperation with IFC. The loan from the bank was accompanied with technical
assistance provided by the IFC, especially in the establishment of the credit bureau allowing mortgage
companies to have access to timely and accurate credit worthiness information. The IFC provided
equity investments in EMRC, and had an international expert sitting on the Board, guiding and
advising the Board and its Chair on critical operational policy issues which were essential, given that
this was the first liquidity facility established in Egypt and the local knowledge was limited.
141.     Effective cooperation with development practices. The Bank team worked in partnership with
USAID. The Financial Services Project funded by USAID played a role in building the capacity of
MFA and MFF, as well as advising The Ministry of Administrative Development in property
registration and titling, as well as in conducting housing surveys to better understand the challenges
and distortions in the housing market. This also helped in flagging the housing gaps and the problem
of access for low income households. The advisory services provided by USAID in grant form was

                                                  34
important as the Egyptian authorities refrain from borrowing for technical assistance, and international
experts were needed to guide the Egyptian authorities to develop the mortgage markets.
142.   Lessons Learnt from this operation will be disseminated at knowledge management events.
The experiences preparation and the implementation of the project will be shared with other regions
through various means, including the Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD) network
monthly newsletter, as well as in the CMP Newsflash, as well as hosting a brown bag lunch (BBL).

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
143.     The government and the implementing entity, the EMRC were appreciative of the support
provided by the World Bank. The authorities rated the World Bank's performance during the
operation as overall highly satisfactory as indicated in Annex 5. The operation witnessed close
coordination and communication with the implementing entity and the relevant officials, and they
acknowledged that the day-to-day support and close supervision of the operation from the field has
helped in ensuring successful delivery. The government‘s request for potential financing is not only
for the funding, but also for the technical assistance and advisory services packaged with the loan.
144.    Moreover, various donors, development partners, and international institutions have been
providing support for the implementation of the government‘s overall financial sector reform program
through the provision of technical assistance, and analytical work on reforming and restructuring the
financial sector, as well as developing the mortgage market in Egypt. This required effective
coordination, which the Bank took leadership in chairing the Financial Sector Donors Subgroup. This
cooperation led to mutual design and agreement of conditionality issues that all donors agreed were
essential for financial sector reform. In addition, donors were able to do a much better job of
leveraging resources, both loan and technical assistance, when coordination is effective. The most
effective and successful coordination was with USAID that provided tremendous support to the
development of the mortgage market in Egypt.




                                                  35
                              Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                           Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                              millions)


 Total Baseline Cost                         0.00                    0.00

 Physical Contingencies
                                             0.00                    0.00               0.00
 Price Contingencies
                                             0.00                    0.00               0.00
 Total Project Costs                        36.73                  38.69

 Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                    0.00                .00

 Front-end fee IBRD                          0.37                    0.37               1.00

 Total Financing Required                   37.10                  39.06




(b) Financing

                                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing      (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)       millions)

Borrower                                                   29.10            0.00           0.00

 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           37.10            39.06         105.30
and Development

Local Sources of Borrowing Country                        104.70            0.00           0.00

Sub-borrower(s)                                            38.50            0.00           0.00




                                               36
                                                        Annex 2: Projected and Actual Monitoring Indicators


                                                                                                              TARGET VALUES
                                                                YR1                        YR2                     YR3                            YR4                       YR5
                                                                2007                       2008                    2009                           2010                      2011
                                            Baseline
      Project Outcome Indicators                       Target          Actual     Target          Actual       Target        Actual      Target          Actual      Revised*       Actual
                                             2006
Volume of market-based mortgage loans
extended by primary lenders annually (LE      300            400         2,054          600         3,229            1,500     3,900        2,400        3,700**         4,000      4,500
millions, cumulative)
Lengthening of term to maturity structure
of market-based mortgage lending               7                 8            9          10              11             12          14          14              16           15      16
(Number of Years)

Intermediate Outcome Indicators


Number of primary lenders extending
                                               2                 3            6            4             8              4           11            6             11              6    12
mortgage loans

Volume of PML borrowings from the
                                              Nil            125        NIL             300             131           600          176         800             289          400      450
EMRC (LE million) ***

Output Indicators


Volume of EMCR refinancing loans to
                                              Nil            125        NIL             300             131           600          176         800             289          400      450
PMLs (LE million) ***

EMRC launches bond operations
                                              Nil        N               N          Y               N            Y             N           Y               N            Y             N
(Y/N)***


*Reduced during Mid Term Review based on reassessment of the project’s original development objectives, and in light of the new circumstances and changes in the environment post-
revolution. Adjustments were documented in the aide memoires of the emergency supervision missions that took place after the revolution in February and May 2011.
** YTD June 2010 Figures
*** Revised indicators at the mid term review of the project



                                                                                        37
     Project Development Objective (PDO): To support banks and non-bank lenders in the primary market to begin offering long-term, market-based mortgage loans or residential housing
                                           D=Dropped                                                Cumulative Target Values32
                                           C=Continue                                                                                                                                   Responsibility




                                    Core
                                                        Unit of                                                                                                     Data Source/
     PDO Level Results Indicators          N= New                   Baseline                                                                       Frequency                              for Data
                                                        Measure                   YR 1             YR 2        YR 3       YR4          YR5                          Methodology
                                           R=Revised                                                                                                                                     Collection

     Indicator One:
                                                                                                                                                                  Surveys of lender;
                                                          LE
     Volume of market-based                    C                       300              400             600     1500         2400         4000      Annually        availability of         EFSA
                                                         Million
     mortgage loans extended by                                                                                                                                   market information
     primary lenders (Annually)
     Indicator Two:
                                                        Number                                                                                                     Available market
     Length of term to maturity  C                                      7                8                10         12          14           15    Annually                                EFSA
                                                        of Years                                                                                                    information;
     structure of market-based
     mortgage lending
     INTERMEDIATE OUTCOME INDICATORS
     Indicator One:                                     Number
                                                           of                                                                                        Semi-
                                               C                        2                3                4           4          6            6                    EFSA statistics          EFSA
     Number of primary lender                           Primary                                                                                     Annually
     extending mortgage loans                           Lenders
     Indicator Two                                                                                                                                                 EMRC Financial
                                                          LE                                                                                         Semi-          Statements and
                                               R                       Nil               0              131         176        289           400                                           EMRC
     Volume of PML borrowings                            Million                                                                                    Annually            Project
     from EMRC (LE million)                                                                                                                                          Supervision
     OUTPUT INDICATORS
     Indicator One:
                                                          LE                                                                                         Semi-         EMRC Financial
                                               R                       Nil               0              131         176        289           400                                           EMRC
     Volume of EMRC refinancing                          Million                                                                                    Annually         Statements
     loans to PMLs ( LE million )
     Indicator Two
                                                                                                                                                                   EMRC Financial
                                                                                                                                                     Semi-          Statements and
     EMRC launches bond                        R          Y/N          Nil          N               N           N          N             Y                                                 EMRC
                                                                                                                                                    Annually            Project
     operations                                                                                                                                                      Supervision




32
   Although some of the assumptions made at the midterm review (above annex from the restructuring paper of the midterm review) did not materialize, the project still achieved the output indicator in
terms of the volume of EMRC refinancing loans to PMLs of LE 450 million by FY11, which is beyond the projected target value.



                                                                                              38
                              Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis


1.        The project outcomes, included the following: (i) help participating mortgage lenders to mitigate
important lending risks associated with housing loans and to increase their lending for housing finance; (ii)
facilitate an increase in the flow of private sector funding to the housing finance sector; and (iii) improve the
affordability of housing finance through a lengthening of the term to maturity of mortgage loans.
2.        The term finance provided to PMLs by the EMRC helped them in reducing the liquidity risk (i.e.,
the risk that the money will be needed before it is available) incurred in their provision of long term loans for
housing. Housing is a long-lived, durable good. In order for housing to be affordable to households, the
payment stream should be spread out over a number of years, facilitating a match between the benefits
received and the costs of the dwelling. Most PMLs in Egypt are commercial banks that rely on abundant
short-term deposits for their funding. They are reluctant to extend long-term (e.g., over 5 year) loans for
housing because of the liquidity risk inherent in funding such loans with short-term deposits. The mortgage
finance companies, the newly licensed non-bank primary lenders, had no access to cheaper deposits and
depended more critically on long-term external refinancing. The PMLs were able to utilize EMRC to
improve the efficiency of their portfolio and risk management activities, which helped to lower financial
spreads in the market to the benefit of all borrowers of credit, especially homebuyers.
3.        The EMRC also helped in facilitating increased competition in the mortgage market by creating a
funding source for non-depository lenders, promoting the development of safe and sound mortgage credit
standards, and helping fixed-income securities markets in Egypt to further develop. At a later stage of
development, likely well beyond the period o f this project, the EMRC may gradually be transformed into a
securitization company capable of purchasing mortgage loans without full recourse, which would help to
further expand the scope and depth of the mortgage market, and/or it may be combined with a mechanism
for partial credit insurance in order to help expand household access to mortgage finance from primary
lenders while also providing credit enhancement for bond investors.
4.        The project has also generated indirect benefits including increase in housing supply. The project
has also contributed in inducing further expansion of direct foreign investment in housing and of rental
markets for real estate, especially from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. However, new
housing construction facilitated by the project would be in established population centers which the
beneficiaries themselves would select, and therefore displacement and relocation o f residents would not be
an issue.
5.        In terms of the financials, EMRC was modestly profitable in year two and remained so during its
first five years. EMRC provided a LE 185 million of PML refinancing during its first five years with its
target spread falling to 50 basis points in the fifth year. The low volume resulted in a relatively high ratio o f
expenses to assets (reflecting a high proportion of fixed to total cost although the level o f expenses in
Egyptian pounds does not exceed LE 5 million until the fifth year) and a low ROE. As a result there is little
room for further reductions in EMRC spread.
6.       The commercial viability of EMRC, as indicated in the financial analysis, does not by itself ensure
that the EMRC generated net economic and social benefits. However, at a minimum, economic benefits are
accrued to: (a) mortgagors (households), from a combination of lower costs of funds and a longer term on
the mortgages being offered, as well as from greater interest in lenders to pursue housing finance lending;
(b) lenders, from a reduction in the risks associated with longer-tern housing loans, thereby enabling a
reduction in the price and non-price barriers to longer-term borrowing; (c) the capital market, from improved
information on term structures and risks that should reduce the cost of issuing medium- and long-term debt.
The project is also expected to generate significant social benefits, described below. These benefits however
have not been quantified.




                                                       39
           Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
  a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
             Names                                   Title               Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
   Lending
   Deane N. Jordan                 Task Team Leader                     CMPNB
   Loic Chiquier                   Manager                              CMPNB
   Stephen B. Butler               Consultant                           MNSPR
   Mahmoud Gamal El Din            Senior Operations Officer            MNSHE
   Michael J. Lea                  Consultant                           CMPNB
   Hovsep M. Melkonian             Consultant                           WBGSA
   Sahar Nasr                      Lead Economist                       MNSF1
   Hisham Ahmed Waly               Sr Financial Management Specia       OPCFM
   Steve W. Wan Yan Lun            Operations Analyst                   MNSF1
   Ghada Youness                   Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
   Sydnella E. Kpundeh             Program Assistant                    MNSSD
   Amira Fouad Zaky                Program Assistant                    MNC03

   Supervision/ICR
   Loic Chiquier                    Director                             CMPNB
   Sahar Nasr                       Lead Economist                       MNSF1
   Simon Christopher Walley         Senior Housing Finance Special       CMPNB
   Laila Ashraf AbdelKader
                                    E T Consultant                       MNSF1
   Ahmed
   Steve W. Wan Yan Lun             Operations Analyst                   MNSF1
   Wael Elshabrawy                  Financial Management Analyst         AFTFM
   Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein El-
                                    Sr Financial Management Specia      MNAFM
   Shorbagi
   Georgette Mounir Ibrahim         Information Officer                  MNC03
   Amira Fouad Zaky                 Program Assistant                    MNC03

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                                  USD Thousands (including travel
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                              and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                     14.91                    127.87
  FY06                                                     37.12                    281.15

                                   Total:                  52.03                    409.02
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                     16.10                    107.73
  FY08                                                     12.04                     90.29
  FY09                                                     15.05                     88.85
  FY10                                                      6.03                     64.38
  FY11                                                     19.40                    132.48
  FY12                                                      5.38                     21.02

                                   Total:                  74.00                    504.75




                                                      40
                               Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR



                                     Arab Republic of Egypt




A. Introduction
         Mortgage sector reforms in Egypt have helped build a vibrant and competitive mortgage market
    that caters to all segments of the Egyptian population including the low and middle-income sectors. The
    Mortgage Finance Project focused on setting the legal and institutions framework for the mortgage
    finance market in Egypt. This entailed the issuance of Real Estate Finance Law, the establishment of a
    mortgage finance regulator, the creation of specialized mortgage finance companies, the formation of
    the EMRC—the first wholesale, market-based liquid facility in Egypt, and the streamlining of property
    registration procedures. As a result, the volume of mortgage lending in Egypt has increased from LE
    300 million to LE 5 billion in just five years.

B. Assessment of the operation's objectives, design, implementation, and operational experience:
         The project‘s development objective was for primary lenders in the financial market (viz., both
    banks and non-bank lenders) to provide longer-term, market-based mortgage loan financing for
    residential housing. Such type of financing was scarce, in part because primary lenders did not have
    reliable access to sources of term finance on favorable terms that could help them to mitigate the
    associated business and lending risks. EMRC was established to provide such a source.
        This project followed an innovative approach being in local currency (US$ 37.5 million equivalent),
    allowing the authorities to hedge for foreign exchange risk, especially when extending funding to
    mortgage lenders catering low-income households.
         The Mortgage Finance Project established the first mortgage liquidity facility in Egypt—EMRC.
    EMRC enhanced access to long-term funds which was crucial for the establishment of long-term
    lending and the development of a vibrant mortgage market in Egypt. EMRC was also involved in
    refinancing loans at concessional rates under the National Housing Program which benefited the lower
    income sectors of the Egyptian society.
         Furthermore, with the successful implementation of the Mortgage Finance Project and its setting of
    the groundwork for the development of a viable mortgage market in Egypt, an additional US$ 300
    million was approved in September 2009 for an Affordable Mortgage Finance Program. This highly
    innovative operation in its own right aims to extend access to housing finance to those who need it most
    through reforming the current system of inefficient and poorly targeted supply-side subsidies for
    housing that were previously given to the developers and replace them with a transparent and
    economically efficient demand-side subsidy system targeted to the end beneficiaries.

C. Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives:
        The loan objectives were satisfactorily met. The reforms implemented by the Mortgage Finance
    Project have yielded some of the most impressive results Egypt has seen in the financial sector. These
    have included:
           An increase in volume of market-based mortgage loans from LE 300 million in 2005 to LE 5
            billion in 2010.
           A rise in bank lending for mortgages from LE 12 million in 2005 to LE 2.7 billion in 2010.
           An increase in mortgage finance companies from 2 in 2005 to 12 in 2010.

                                                    41
           An increase in the length of term to maturity of a mortgage from 7 in 2005 to 15 years in 2010.
           Streamlining and improving the property registration process with costs being cut by half and
            steps reduced from 23 to 7.
           A reduction in the cost of deed or title registration from 12 percent of the value of the property,
            to 6 percent, to 3 percent to its current maximum flat fee of LE 2,000.
           Initiating the fast track foreclosure system.
        There has also been tangible impacts and notable improvements in property registration. This
   includes the fast track registration system for new houses, through the nationwide mapping and titling
   program, and the drastic reduction in registration fees. The government has also recently launched a
   systematic title-adjudication, survey, and registration process to modernize the property registration
   system. On collateral enforcement and foreclosure procedures, the enactment of the Real Estate Finance
   Law has lead to a series of court cases which have started to provide precedents that can give comfort to
   mortgage lenders.
        Finally, this operation has also contributed to the creation of jobs through public works,
   construction, and building houses. Housing is the most visible indicator of social well-being and it is
   politically important for governments to guarantee reasonable standards of housing for the majority of
   the population. In addition, housing is a large part of the economy, and has a strong multiplier effect.
   One of the most significant characteristics of investing in the housing sector is unlocking job creation
   opportunities, leading to attaining economic growth.

D. Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and implementation of
   the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be helpful in the future:
        The operation witnessed a series of reform measures that focused on developing the mortgage
   market and setting the regulatory and legal framework for a sound sector. The majority of the concluded
   reforms were thoroughly discussed with the World Bank on various occasions.
        Building on the achievements of the overall comprehensive 2004-2008 Financial Sector Reform
   Program and core objectives focusing on (i) deepening the Egyptian banking sector, enhancing its
   efficiency, competitiveness, transparency and risk management practices to ensure that it will
   effectively conduct its role in financial intermediation to sustain domestic economic growth and
   development; (ii) restructuring the Insurance Sector; (iii) deepening the Capital Market; (iv) developing
   the Mortgage Finance Market; and (v) enhancing other Financial Services, a new phase of the Financial
   Sector Reform Program (2009-2012) was launched in January 2009.
        A strategic pillar of the Financial Sector Reform Program was strengthening the regulatory and
   supervisory framework in the non-bank financial sector via the establishment of the EFSA consolidating
   the regulatory bodies of non-bank financial services, markets, institutions, and developing the regulatory
   framework for the non-bank financial institutions to ensure the stability of the financial sector, by
   moving from a rule-based to a risk-based regulatory framework.

E. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other partners during the
   preparation and implementation of the operation, including the effectiveness of their
   relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned:
       The World Bank's performance during the operation was overall highly satisfactory. The operation
   witnessed close coordination and communication with the relevant bank officials, and special
   acknowledgment should be given to the efforts of the field team, especially the Task Team Leader
   during the preparation and supervision.
       The team was responsive to clients' needs and changes in the market in numerous incidents.
   Having anticipated a rise in international interest rates, the team approached the Treasury immediately
   requesting approval for amendments in Legal Agreement (replacing swap rate by average yield of 12-
   months Treasury Bills). The team was also responsive to the issuance of the new Tax Law by the
   Ministry of Finance, which taxed T-Bills (and not securities) based on which interest rate was
   determined, distorting the market; and requested immediately exemptions from Treasury, which she had
   gladly approved to avoid market distortions and ensure a "level playing field". All this has facilitated
   project implementation and timely disbursement.
       The team showed a remarkable deal of diligence and technical support for the responsible
   authorities throughout the operation. The presence of the TTL on the ground during supervision
   provided effective communication and ensured all required and expected outcomes where duly met.
                                                     42
       The World Bank also conducted close coordination efforts with other donors and development
   partners who are actively involved in mortgage market development in Egypt including IFC and
   USAID.

F. Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project:
       The government of Egypt is committed to ensure the sustainability of EMRC. As a result of the
   successful cooperation with the World Bank in the preparation for and disbursement of the Egypt
   Mortgage Finance Project, the Egyptian Government requested later the Affordable Mortgage Finance
   Program DPL, and is keen on further cooperation with the World Bank on developing further the
   mortgage market in Egypt, through other follow-up operations.
        To further ensure sustainability and continuity of EMRC‘s operations, EMRC will be moving
   forward with recapitalization, which will go hand in hand with the bond issuance planned for end of
   2012, in addition to the proposed potential follow-up additional financing by the World Bank as
   outlined in the 2008 CAS Progress Report, amounting to US$ 50 million or equivalent in local currency.
   Also, there has been a change in management and leadership of EMRC, with calibers and expertise
   required for the coming period in Egypt. The Deputy Governor of CBE has been appointed Chair of
   EMRC, and the Chair of MFF has been appointed Deputy Chair of EMRC. This would ensure good
   collaboration between CBE, the Ministry of Investment, the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban
   Development and EMRC—which is critical to mortgage market development as well as affordable
   housing development.




                                                  43
             Annex 6: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

         Various donors, development partners, and international institutions have been providing support
for the implementation of the government‘s Financial Sector Reform Program through the provision of
technical assistance, and analytical work on reforming and restructuring the financial sector, as well as
developing the mortgage market in Egypt. This required effective coordination, which the Bank took
leadership in. A Financial Sector Donors Subgroup, chaired by the World Bank was formed in mid 2005, to
coordinate efforts related to both technical and financial support provided to the government and to ensure
that borrowed funds are used in the most effective manner. This cooperation led to mutual design and
agreement of conditionality issues that all donors agreed were essential for financial sector reform. In
addition, donors were able to do a much better job of leveraging resources, both loan and technical
assistance, when coordination is effective.
          A major stakeholder that has been working closely with the Bank throughout the different phases of
the Mortgage Finance Project is IFC. IFC provided equity investments and technical assistance to the
liquidity facility--EMRC. Together with IFC, the Bank provided technical support across a range of areas
but in particular in defining the business model, operating procedures and risk management framework of
EMRC, as well as contracting international expert consultants, who sat on the Board. IFC as a shareholder
provided substantial support in the drafting of the Operational Manual. A five-year business plan with
projections under high and low growth scenarios, process flow charts and an IT plan. IFC appreciates the
Bank‘s efforts in processing such an operation. Overall, IFC has commended the Bank‘s efforts in moving
forward with the implementation of the Mortgage Finance Project and the establishment of the first liquidity
facility in Egypt.
         Donors have benefited from the analytical work that was undertaken by the Bank, especially the
2002 joint IMF-World Bank FSAP. Most of the recommendations put forward by the FSAP were used in
drafting the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the government of Egypt and USAID. All
major elements required for financial sector reform as identified by the FSAP were used in drafted the
conditionality that appears in the MOU. Moreover, technical assistance to support the financial sector
reforms was jointly discussed, designed and deployed, with USAID, with an understanding that the different
donors would support various activities, but attempting to promote complimentarily.
          USAID have been actively involved in mortgage market development in Egypt, which have
commended the World Bank‘s financial sector work, and especially the Mortgage Finance Project. The
Bank and USAID have collaborated closely during the preparation of this project. This collaboration has
continued during project implementation as well. USAID implemented a complementary project, Egypt
Financial Services (EFS), launched in November 2004, that comprised a five year program of technical
advisory services and institutional capacity building to help strengthen the regulatory framework for the
mortgage market, the property registration system, and dispute resolution and enforcement of mortgage
collateral. The close collaboration between the Bank and USAID seeks to eliminate duplication, emphasize
the respective strengths of the two institutions, and make more optimal use of available grant and loan
resources available to the Government of Egypt.
          From the USAID perspective, the strong relationship with the Bank was unique in that it was
mutually reinforcing. USAID acknowledges such close cooperation that helped them in designing assistance
strategies to effectively respond to the needs of Egypt. They appreciated the sharing of information and the
close contact to advance in addressing major constraints. This close working relationship helped to ensure
that activities of respective organizations did not conflict with each other. Both parties had a common
objective to support the government of Egypt‘s efforts to implement financial sector reforms. It is much
easier for USAID to provide long-term technical assistance rather than long-term finance, whereas the World
Bank is well positioned to address financing issues, a key component to help the authorities implement their
financial sector reforms. Supporting common objectives helped the government in advancing with its reform
agenda. This was really a three-win situation for the World Bank, USAID and most importantly for the
government of Egypt.
         Donors and development partners continue their efforts to support the financial sector in Egypt,
especially through supporting inclusive finance, and low-income housing—a government‘s priority in the
wake of the revolution.




                                                    44
                       Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents




1.   Project Appraisal Document
2.   Loan Agreement (November 2006)
3.   Project Agreement (November 2006)
4.   Amendment Letter to the Loan Agreement (October 2007)
5.   Amendment Letter to the Project Agreement (August 2007)
6.   Mid Term Review (July 2010)
7.   World Bank Missions Aide Memoires




                                           45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33400R


                                                                                               A R A B R E P U B L I C O F E G Y PT
                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                   GOVERNORATES IN NILE DELTA:
        ARAB REPUBLIC
            OF EGYPT                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                          1       KAFR EL SHEIKH              8   MENOUFIYA
                                                                                                                                                                          2       DAMIETTA                    9   SHARGIYAH
                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS                                                       3       PORT SAID                  10   QALIUBIYA
                                                                                                                                                                          4       ALEXANDRIA                 11   ISMAILIA
                                                                                                         RAILROADS                                                        5       BEHEIRA                    12   CAIRO
                                                                                                                                                                          6       GHARBIYA                   13   GIZA
                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                           7       DAGAHLIYA

                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                    25°E                                                                      30°E                                                                               35°E

                                                                                                                                              WEST BANK                 To
      To
    Darnah                                            Mediterranean                                 Sea                                       AND GAZA               Tel Aviv

                           Salum
                                                     Marsa Matruh                                                        2 Damietta
                                                                                                          Kafr el
                                                                                Alexandria
                                                                                                        1 Sheikh                       Port Said El'Arish
         Libyan Plateau                                                               Damanhur                   El Mansura 3                                         ISRAEL                      JORDAN
                                                                                            4             6 Tanta 7 9
                                                                                                                  Zagizig
                                                                                            Shibin el Kom 8                 Ismailia
                                                                                                        Benha                                     NORTHERN
                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                 5              10                                  SINAI
30°N
                                                                                                          Giza
                                                                                                                       CAIRO                                                                                                   30°N
                                                           Qattara                                        Giza                            Suez
                                                                                                          13           12       SUEZ
                                                          Depression
                                            Qara                                                                      Helwan                                           Taba

                                                                                               El Fayoum              HELWAN                          SOUTHERN
                     Siwa
                                                                                              EL FAYOUM                                                 SINAI
                                  MARSA MATRUH                                                                     Beni Suef




                                                                                                                                                                                  Aqaba
                                                                                                                                          Gu
                                                                                               BENI SUEF                                             Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                            lf
                                                                            G I ZA                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAUDI



                                                                                                                                                                          Gulf of
                                                                                                                                               Su
                                                                                                                                  Ras Gharib     ez
                                                                                            AL MINYA                                                        El Tur
                                                                                               Al Minya                                                                                                 ARABIA
                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                             a




 LIBYA
                                                                                                                                                 s t




                                                                                                                                   AL BAHR
                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                               ille




                                                                                                                                                               Al Ghurdaqah
                                                                                                                  e




                                                                                              ASSIUT                  Assiut
                                                                                                                                                     e r
                                                                                                                                                     e r




                                                                                                                                 AL AHMAR
                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                        Riv
                                                                                                                         i




                                                                                                                                                                 Bir Seiyala
                                          W e s t e r n
                                                                                                                         er




                                                                                                                               Sohag
                                                                                                                          r




                                                                                                                                   SOHAG                                                   Red
                                                                                                                                                            D e
                    L i




                                                                                                                                             Qena
                                                                                                                                                              e s




                                                                                                                                                                       Quseir
                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea
                      i b




                                                Desert
                                                                                                                                                                s e




                                                                                                                                                 QENA
                                                                                                                                            Luxor
                                                                                                                                                                    r t
                          y a




                                                A L WA D I                Mut
                                                                            .               El-Kharga
                                                                                                                                                                      t
                            a n




25°N                                            AL JADID                                                                                                                                  Marsa 'Alam                          25°N

                                                                                                                                                     ASWAN
                            D e




                                                                                                                                                  Kom Ombo
                              e s e




                                                                                                                            Aswan Dam             Aswan
                                  e r t




  To
 Jalu
                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                Nasser


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Halaib




                                                                                  SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                        0       50         100            150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                       To                                     To                                                                  Port Sudan
                                                                                                     Dongola                                Berber
                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                0             50                   100        150 Miles
20°N                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                       20°N
                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
             25°E                                                                            30°E                                                                                          35°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAY 2010
