                                                                                                          97054
Results Profile: Egypt Financial System Reform                                                      October 30, 2010




 CREATING STABILITY AND ENHANCING ACCESS

 Helping Develop Egypt’s Financial Sector




Overview
For the past five years, the Government of Egypt and the World Bank have worked together on
the most far-reaching, substantive and comprehensive drive toward financial sector
strengthening so far in Egypt and the Arab World. This partnership has led to tangible results,
most notably reflected in the fact that the banking sector in Egypt is now majority-owned by
the private sector and open to competition, and resilient to the adverse consequences of the
global financial crisis.

   Full Brief—4 Pages
Creating Stability and Enhancing Access: Helping Develop Egypt’s
Financial Sector—PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA


The financial sector in Egypt suffered over the
years from public sector dominance. Public
banks did not adhere to international best
practice, financed state-owned enterprises, and
accumulated non-performing loans. Private
banks operated in a non-competitive
environment that resulted in inefficient banking
practices, that limited access to financial
services, and created a lack of suitable
instruments. Non-banking institutions did not
have a suitable regulatory environment in which
to develop.

Approach                                                            94%
                                                                    Divestiture of 94 percent of
                                                                    state-owned bank shares in joint
Supported by the International Bank for Reconstruction and          venture banks;
Development (IBRD), the Financial Sector Reform Program
comprises a major restructuring of banks, non-bank financial
institutions, and markets, which is underpinned with
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION
strengthening of the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework, as well as an improvement in the institutional            Country Website
infrastructure. In terms of lending, the first Financial Sector      Country Partnership Strategy
Development Policy Loan, amounting to US$500 million was
                                                                     Country Brief
prepared in response to the government’s request to support
the implementation of Phase I of the Financial Sector Reform         Data and Statistics
Program, covering the period July 2004–June 2006. The                Central Bank of Egypt
significant progress achieved under this facility was
encouraging, and the Bank prepared the Second and Third              Ministry of Investment
Financial Sector Development Policy Loans in FY08 and                 DPL I Program Document
FY10 respectively, each amounting to an additional
                                                                      DPL II Program Document
US$ 500million.
                                                                      DPL III Program Document

Results                                                               Access to Finance and
                                                                      Economic Growth Report

As a result of reform, Egypt’s banking sector moved from a
state dominated to a stronger, more effective, private sector
                                                                    PARTNERS
led system. For the first time in recent history, the banking
sector is now majority-owned by the private sector and open           African Development Bank
to competition. This was achieved by:                                 European Central Bank
                                                                      European Union
       Privatization of the fourth-largest state-owned bank,
       the Bank of Alexandria;                                        IMF

                                                                      U.S. Agency for International
       Divestiture of 94 percent of state-owned bank shares           Development (USAID)
       in joint venture banks;
                                                                      Governments of Canada,
                                                                      France, Germany, Greece, Italy,
       Consolidation of the banking sector where the number
                                                                      the United Kingdom and the
       of banks decreased from 57 to 39 banks;                        United States

       Other achievements include the financial, operational,
       and institutional restructuring of the remaining state-
       owned banks evident in the full settlement of all non-
                                                                 
       performing loans of state-owned enterprises, and the
       operational restructuring of the state-owned
       commercial banks in three critical areas (human resource development, risk
       management, and information technology).

These reforms led to a substantial strengthening of the balance sheets of the banks which was
validated by the resiliency of the system to the recent global financial crisis and an
improvement in returns on capital and relative to assets. Furthermore, access to finance in
Egypt has been enhanced substantially in terms of lending, deposit-taking, and physical access
through banks and ATMs. Between 2006 and 2009, branch density rose by 60 percent, the
number of ATMs by 26 percent, number of deposit accounts by 15 percent, and number of
loans by 165 percent. Egypt also has one of the two largest microfinance markets in the Arab
world, with more than 1.3 million active clients and a total outstanding loan portfolio of over
US$337 million.


Toward the Future
With the success of the financial sector reform program, the Bank will undertake further
analytical work to help solidify gains achieved so far and identify areas of possible future
assistance. The Bank is currently undertaking a new Finance and Growth Study that will
highlight priority reform areas for the coming ten years.

 


                                                     Last updated: 2010-11-01
