Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIK ,? >2c;-yX9<
Report No. P-4348-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.6 MILLION
TO THE
YEMIEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
June 5, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YRI)
Calendar Year 1985             March 1986
$1=YRls 6.41                   $1 = YRls 7.25
YR1=$0.16                      YRl 1 = $0.14
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                           = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)                      = 0.6214 miles (m)
1 Square Kilometer (km-)              = 0.3894 square miles (sq. miles)
1 hectare (ha)                        = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (= 1 ton)                = 0.9842 long ton (1g. ton)
bpd                                   = barrels per day
dwt                                   = deadweight tons
toe                                   = tons of oil equivalent
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAMA          - Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
CPO           - Central Planning Organization
CYDA          - Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
GSTA          - General Secretariat for Transport Affairs
GTC           - General Transport Corporation
HA            - Highway Authority
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
LPG           - Liquid Propane Gas
LDA           - Local De;elopment Association
MCT           - Ministry of Communications and Transport
MPW           - Ministry of Public Works
PMAC          - Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
TA            - Technical Assistance
VOC           - Vehicle Operating Cost
VTC           - Vocational Training Center
YGTC          - Yemen General Transport Corporation
YHOC          - Yemen Hunt Oil Company
YPC           - Yemen Petroleum Corporation



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights 8.6 million (about US$10.0
million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Proiect Description:     The objectives of the project are to (a) facilitate
substitution of domestic oil for imported products by
permitting the transport of refined products from a
refinery at the oil field to domestic markets;
(b) facilitate the further development of the oil
fields; (c) provide road access for the movement and
marketing of agricultural products from the Wadi As
Sudd area (population 78,000), which will be
irrigated by a new dam; and (d) increase the
capability of the Highway Authority (NA) to design
road works. The project would consist of the second
phase, completion to paved standard, of the
Marib-Safir road (62.5 km).  The road would connect
the paved road network at Marib with the oil field
and refinery at Safir, and would also serve an
agricultural area for the first 32 km.
Benefits and Risks:      The primary project benefits would be to help
facilitate the substitution of domestic oil for
imported petroleum products and to reduce the cost of
transporting agricultural inputs and products.
Institutional benefits would include the
strenghtening of HA.  There are no unusual project
risks, but allowance has been made in project
implementation for delays in the construction
component.
r This document ha. mstricd diatibuton and may be ued by recipients only in de perfonna 
of their oMcaldutiesIt contents mny not otherwie be discloed without Wodd Bank authoriation.



(ii)
Estimated Project Costs                   Foreign      Local       Total
- --   $ million
1. First Phase (HA Force Account)
Construction to Gravel Standard
Construction                       5.2         5.6        10.8
Supervision                        0.2         0.1         0.3
Physical Contingencies             0.3         0.3         0.6
Subtotal                       5.7         6.0        11.7
2. Second Phase (KA Force Account)
Construction to Paved Standard
Constrbction                       6.0         4.7        10.7
Supervision                        0.6         0.1         0.7
Physical Contingencies             0.3         0.2         0.5
Price Contingencies                1.4         1.2         2.6
Subtotal (the Project)          8.3         6.2        14.5
Total - Both Phases                    14.0        12.2''    26.2
Financing Plan for the Proposed Project
(Second Phase)
Government                                -         4.5         4.5
IDA Credit                               8.3        1.7        10.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year                    1987     1988     1989      1990
$ million
Annual                           1.0      2.0      3.0       4.0
Cumulative                       1.0      3.0      6.0      10.0
Economic Rate of Return: 13X, not including important unquantified benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 6108-YAR dated May 28, 1986
'-' Includes $3.1 million in taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
THE MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 8.6 million (approximately UJS$10.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance the -.arib-Safir Road Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY L'
2.      A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 5621-YAR) dated March 17, 1986
has recently been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.      Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of
public institutions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have
provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors.
Under the Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
4.      Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1984. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1984 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family and tribal ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes.
Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
(P-4256-YAR), dated April 25, 1986, for the Technical Assistance
Project to the Petroleum Sector approved by the Executive Directors
on May 15, 1986.



-2-
Recent Developments
5.       In the late seventies, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth
set in uminly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers'
remittances. The early eighties witnessed a marked deterioration in the
macrofinancial situation, as public investment and associated recurrent
expenditures exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports
resulted in a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was
aggravated by the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil
exporting countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the
Gulf. Yet, inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because
imports were cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most
currencies (except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation
was obtained at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.      In 1983 and 1984, the YAR economy slowed down considerably, as a
result of the Government's efforts to cool down the economy and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, tCe decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982, and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and 1984, cutting the gross output
of cereals by more than half in 1983. However, increased grain imports kept
food availability at a normal level.
7.      In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue. These measures resulted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983 and 1984. Yet inflation was significantly higher
in 1984. rising to about 13 percent mainly because of the 30 percent
cumulative devaluation of the Yemeni rial. These devaluations, and the
import restriction measures taken by the Government, resulted in a large
decline in imports and a marked improvement in the balance of payments in
1984. However, the budget deficit still represented about 26 percent of GDP
in 1984 and official grants, which continued to decrease, are unlikely to
return to their previous high levels. The Government rightly intends to
continue its stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, while maintaining the flexible exchange rate policy
adopted recently. This should help to continue to improve the external
finances and restore the competitiveness of local production, mainly in
agriculture.
8.      Oil was discovered in the eastern part of the country in 1984, and
it seems that exploitable reserves are large enough to justify exports of
crude oil starting possibly in 1988-89. In the meanwhile, the YAR Government
will face the challenge of continuing its stabilization program while
preparing for the oil era. The oil discovery could improve YAR's development
prospects. At the Government's request, IDA is undertaking, as part of its
economic and sector work, a review of the implications of oil and gas
discovery on YAR's economy and of investment options and priorities in the
energy sector, including power. The draft report of the Bank mission which
undertook the study is being prepared for discussion with the Goverment.



-3-
Maior Long Term Issues
9.       Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The situation is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are,
therefore, called for to address these problems: (i) establishing a
comprehensive water resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among
the various agencies operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing
legislation to manage water use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery
policies.
10.      Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and
increasingly complex development program. Health indicators depict serious
problems that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts
and resources to improve the situation.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, at about 3 percent per
annum, which could affect growth of per capita income and productivity.
Also, rapid population growth would reduce agricultural land per capita to
levels characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development
is severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the
small (even by developing countries' standards) coverage of YAR population in
terms of social services (e.g., health, education) would imply a heavy burden
on the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of
rapid population growth require that, despite possible cultural constraints,
the Government develop an appropriate policy as soon as possible.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN
classification as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been
provided in the form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid
disbursements, including grants, came to around $3.5 billion by the end of
1984. The principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab
Emirates, Iraq, the USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA
and the Arab development funds.
13.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,



-4-
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
14.     Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1984 was estimated at $2,398 million, of which $1,688 million
(about 44 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $193
million or about 11 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent, while interest on USSR loans has varied from 2 to 4 percent.
Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent.
Loan maturities range from 3 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
15.     Recently, commitments decreased sharply, by about 66 percent in 1983
and 44 percent in 1984, a decline that is related to the depressed oil market
and the Iran-Iraq war. Debt service amounted to $42.5 million in 1983 and
$67 million in 1984, hardly more than 5 percent of gross foreign exchange
earnings (including workers' remittances and private transfers). However,
the debt service is projected to increase substantially over 1986-92, and its
budgetary burden could become difficult to bear, depending on the level of
oil production and export revenues. These developments indicate that YAR
would have to rely increasingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS L-'
16.     This credit would be the forty-sixth to YAR, bringing total IDA
coumitments to $450.9 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development; (b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA
has extended fourteen credits ($147.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and
rural development; sixteen credits ($170.3 million) for infrastructure; seven
credits ($73.7 million) for education and training; three credits for
industry ($22.0 million); two credits for the petroleum sector ($14 million);
a g10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand the capability of the
Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the country's health care system
and a $4.7 million credit to provide technical assistance to strengthen the
Central Planning Organization. The International Finance Corporation (IFC)
has made five investments in YAR: (i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a
dairy and juice project; (ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity
contribution of $0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery project;
1' Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-4256-YAR), dated April 25, 1986, for the Technical Assistance Project
for the Petroleum Sector approved by the Executive Directors on May 15,
1986.



(iii) $3.9 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv)
$9 million in FY86 to support the construction of an oil refinery in Harib;
and (v) $2.4 million in FY86 to help finance a citrus orchard project.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of March
31, 1986. The attached map (number IBRD 19127) indicates the location of the
IDA-financed projects in YAR.
17.     While IDA has recently been assisting the YAR Government in its
efforts to overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial
problems (para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused
on long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; exploration for energy sources and minerals;
identification of viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading
and expanding the physical infrastructure within the constraint of available
resources. Sector work complements both the economic work and lending
operations and serves to bridge the recommended short- and long-term measures.
18.     YAR's disbursement performance improved considerably in FY85,
although it was affected by a number of implementation problems, and it
compared favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the recurrent
problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of development
are: delays in the recruitment of consultants, in the evaluation and award
of contracts and in the resolution of contractual issues with contractors,
and in finalizing cofinancing arrangements. The Government and IDA are
holding periodic country implementation reviews to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.
19.     Future World Bank operations are expected to consolicdate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to TAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. An agricultural project has been
appraised and projects in the education, urban and health sectors are under
preparation. Future operations are expected in the areas of agriculture,
energy (including oil and gas development), education and transport.
20.     YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to over $400 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.



III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
21.     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) occupies an area of largely
mountainous terrain and has a widely disperJed population. As a consequence
of this setting, both the demand for transport and the cost of providing
transport services are high.
22.     Until about 1960, YAR lacked a modern transport system.  Primitive
tracks were the only means of land transport, port facilities were limited to
the ancient port of Mocha, and there was no air service within the country.
Efforts to modernize transportation began slowly in the 1960s, but
accelerated following the end of the civil war in 1972. Progress to date in
developing the transport system has been impressive (see attached map IBRD
19127R).
23.     The 1970's fast pace of economic development in neighboring oil-rich
countries provided employment opportunities for Yemeni workers and absorbed
about 30 percent of the Yemeni work force. The resulting increases in worker
remittances fueled an economic boom in YAR, particularly -in transport.
Various factors contributed to this upsurge in transport demand: (i)
financial support from the migrant labor force to build transport links to
their villages; (ii) increasing migration of rural people to the cities while
maintaining close ties to their villages; (iii) structural changes in the
pattern and level of consumption requiring much larger imports; and (iv) an
ambitious development program spurring construction activities in various
sectors on a massive scale. Traffic on all modes that grew at unprecedented
levels during the 1970s, has recently decreased to more normal levels due to
a decline in workers remittances caused by the recession in the Gulf states
and a general slowdown in economic activity. ilowever, the recent oil and gas
discoveries in the Marib basin is triggering a new upsurge in transport
demand in the eastern part of the country.
B. The Transport System
24.     During the last twenty years, YAR has built up the framework of a
modern transport system, consisting of about 3,250 km of main roads
(66 percent paved), a modern sea port at Hodeidah and secondary ports at
Salif and Mocha, and three international airports. YAR has also made a good
beginning atl building up the institutio_il framework to administer and
maintain the system- However, much more needs to be done to further expand
transport capacity, particularly the road network, and to build and
strengthen institutions. Several of the country's interior areas, even
fertile and densely inhabited areas such as the Wadi As Sudd to be served by
the proposed project, still lack road access. The Government's policy
emphasizes the need to improve access to interior areas, while it continues
to assign highest importance to maintenance and improvement of the existing
transport system.
25.     Highways:  Although the length of the main road system more than
quadrupled over the last decade, the system remains inadequate and secondary



roads in particular are still lacking. The main links in the road network
require strengthening as traffic has outgrown their carrying capacity, and a
program to strengthen about 1,000 km of the network has already started.
YAR's road density is still low (about 17 km per 1000 sq. km), but compares
well with other countries at a similar stage of development if the low
quality tracks (30,000 km) built by local development associations (LDAs) in
rural areas are considered a part of the network. A recently completed
Highway Master Plan study identifies those roads built by LDAs that have
inter-regional significance or serve larger communities and need to be
upgraded for subsequent incorporation into the national network to be
maintained by the Highway Authority (HA).
26.      Ports and Shipping:  The Government, assisted by IDA and other
donors, has considerably improved the ports' capacity and efficiency in the
recent years. With the planned construction of a second container berth in
Hodeidah, YAR's major port, the country is expected to have sufficient port
capacity for several years.
27.     Under the Port Development Project (Credit 714-YAR) the approach
channel to Hodeidah was widened and the port dredged to a general depth of
9.2 meters. Three new berths and other facilities, including a container
berth were constructed and a mooring berth for handling petroleum products
was also reconstructed. Hodeidah now receives fully loaded ships of about
22,000 dead weight tons (dwt), and can accommodate tankers of-up to 15,000
dwt. The Hodeidah port also received a mechanized installation for unloading
bulk food grains and a grain silo of about 20,000 ton capacity, which were
financed under the Grain Storage Project (Credit 636-YAR).
28.     The small port of Mocha is well sited to serve the prosperous
southern highland governorates of Taiz and Ibb. The port of Salif has a
natural deep water harbor with a modern pier to handle salt. It also has a
floating jetty and a silo for the mechanized discharge of cement. The ports
of godeidah and Mocha are managed by the Yemen Ports and Marine Affairs
Corporation (PMAC), and Salif by the Yemen Salt Export Corporation.
29.     Civil Aviation:  Substantial investments were made to adapt the
airport facilities for larger and heavier aircrafts and to extend air
services to the outlying parts of the country. The airports at Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeidah now provide facilities for both international and domestic air
traffic, while seven smaller airports serve regional needs. Sana'a's main
runway is currently being extended to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft, and a
new terminal was recently completed. In addition the runways of Taiz and
Hodeidah have now been exteided to 3,000 meters and a new terminal at
Hodeidah is under advanced construction. Since 1980, passenger traffic has
grown by about 5.1 percent per annum.
30.     The United Nations, through both its International Civil Aviation-
Organization and its Development Program, continues to provide valuable
technical assistance to assist YAR's Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
(CAA) .



- 8 -
31.     The national airline, YEMENIA, is a profitable joint venture of the
Governments of YAR and Saudi Arabia that operates international and domestic
services. In 1984 it carried 456,000 passengers.
32.     Sectoral Constraints:  Major constraints are still affecting the
development of the transport sector. These include a weak institutional
framework to formulate policies and programs, scarce qualified personnel in
both the public and private sectors and an embryonic domestic construction
industry. In addition, some construction materials are not available
locally. With IDA's assistance the Government is overcoming some of these
constraints (para 49-55).
C. Transport Organization, Planning and Policies
33.     Transport Organization:  The transport sector is administered mainly
by two ministries. The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) supervises the
activities of the semi-autonomous HA and the operations of the Yemen Port and
Marine Affairs Corporation (PKAC). HA is responsible for technical planning,
design, construction and maintenance of the main road system while PMAC
manages the ports of Hodeidah and Mocha. The Ministry of Communications and
Transport (MCT) deals with transport policies and oversees the Civil Aviation
and Meteorology Authority (CAMA), Yemenia and the land transport companies.
In addition, Local Development Associations (LDAs) are participating in the
development of the sector through the construction of low cost rural roads
(Para 25) financed mainly from mig-ant workers' remittances, with
supplemental financial support being provided by the Government.
34.      The Government has recently established in the MCT a General
Secretariat for Transport Affairs (GSTA) under a Deputy Minister, to provide
the needed coordination among agencies involved in the transport sector.
Rowever, GSTA is not equipped with qualified staff to be able to play such a
coordinating role at present. The Government is considering adopting the
recommendations of a study, financed under the fourth highway project (Credit
1267-YAR), which examines, inter alia, the technical assistance and the
organizational arrangements needed to help develop the GSTA.
35.      Road Transport Organization:  The Government has recently set up two
public sector enterprises: (i) the General Transport Corporation (51 percent
of its capital is owned by the YAR Government), which organizes inter-city
and in-city bus services; and (ii) the Y'men General Transport Corporation,
jointly owned by YAR and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Governments, which provides transport for passengers and goods between the
two countries. Apart from these two public sector enterprises, road
transport is essentially in the hands of private transporters who are grouped
into powerful associations. Transport tariffs are proposed by these
associations and approved by the Government. The above-mentioned study
(para. 34) includes recommendations, presently being reviewed by the
Government, to stimulate competition through establishing a proper set of
regulations for private transport including the drivers' association. Tne
Government plans to formulate and adopt new policies before the end of 1987.



- 9 -
36.     Transport Planning:  Transport planning is done predominantly with
the help of outside consultants engaged by sub-sectoral agencies. Decisions
on investment allocation and project selection are made by the subsectoral
agencies (such as PMAC, HA and CAMA) and by concerned ministries.
Coordination among the relevant ministries and agencies is the responsibility
of CPO which until now has not been able to fully assume this role because of
a shortage of experienced staff. However, most of the investments have been
based on a rational approach to the priority needs of the economy. The
proposed strengthening of the GSTA would help improve transport sector
planning. In that respect, HA prepared a Highway Master Plan (para. 44) for
the period up to 1996. Financed under the IDA-assisted Third Highway project
(Credit 794-YAR), this Master Plan provides the basis for a balanced
dev2lopment of the road system, establishes priorities based on a
comprehensive review of ueeds and detailed traffic forecasts, and proposes
improvements in various road-related management and policy matters such as
design standards, maintenance policy and the level and structure of road user
charges. The Highway Master Plan also provided guidelines for a new axle
load legislation recently approv-. by the People's Assembly.  The Government
is reviewing recommendations included in the Master Plan for inclusion in the
Third Five Year Plan (1987-1991) currently being prepared with assistance
from the Kuwait Fund, UNDP and IDA.
37.     Transport Policy Objectives:  The policy objectives of the transport
sector are reflected in the country's Five Year Plans. The First Plan
(1977-81) stated in general terms these objectives, but emphasized the role
of the transport sector in building a sound infrastructural base to integrate
the country, catering to the needs of a developing economy and reducing YAR's
isolation. The transport sector objectives under the Second Five-Year
Development Plan (Second Plan) (1982-86) included the development of roads,
parts and air transport with special emphasis on improved maintenance of
existing roads and the development of secondary roads to serve better the
interior areas. The Second Plan also emphasized investments and other
measures to reduce the costs of passenger and freight transport so as to
promote a better utilization of the country's resources. The Second Plan
allocated 17 percent of total investment to the transport sector. Of a total
public investment of YRls 4.0 billion (about $0.9 billion) for transport and
commmnications, nearly 60 percent was allocated to both main (40 percent) and
rural (20 percent) roads in view of their importance in YAR's transport
system. During the Second Plan implementation, the overall size of
investment and the share of transport investments were reduced to fit
available resources.
38.     Transport User Charges:  It is the Government's general objective to
recover the full costs of services rendered by transport agencies except in
special circumstances where it considers a subsidy to be justified on social
ground.s. In 1984, road users revenues exceeded the Government's spending on
road maintenance and construction and contributed about YR 688.6 million
through customs duties and exc se taxes on fuel, transport equipment, spare
parts and tires, annual vehicle taxes and other licenses. That same year,
the Government spent about YR 527.7 million on roads. In the rural areas,
the LDAs contribute voluntarily a major part of the investment costs.



- 10 -
However, the present system requires some improvement, as the incidence of
user charges is not related to the damage inflicted on the roads by differeat
categories of road users. The Association hag discussed with the Government
the need to introduce a more rational road user charges system.   Based on
the recomendations on user charges included in the Highway Master Plan, the
Government intends to formulate and implement a system of road user charges
after consultation with the Association before the end of 1987. As regards
cost recovery in other subsectors, the port subsector presents a sound
picture. Following tariff increases in 1977 and 1982 which doubled their
levels, port charges are now at the same general level as other Red Sea ports
with which YAR ports compete. In the case of airports, a study of the
adequacy of airport charges was recently completed and its findings are
currently under review by the Government.
The Highway Subseccor
39.      Administration:  Established in 1972, HA operates as a semi-
autonomous Government agency with its own capital, budget, income and salary
scales, under a board of directors comprising Government officials and
chaired by the Minister of Public Works. It has regional offices in Sanaa,
Ibb, Taiz, Hodeidah and Saadah to supervise road construction and maintenance.
40.      Construction:  This is normally carried out by contract, but HA acts
as the builder of last resort in cases where no acceptable bids are
received. Its construction division is relatively well-organized, has
adequate equipment and staff, including expatriate experts. It has
successfully executed some road construction projects, including the first
phase of the Marib-Safir road. HA will also complete by force account the
second phase (to asphalt standard) of this road because of the special
circumstances in the Marib area (para. 68). However, following IDA's advice,
HA is planning to reduce its construction activities and to increase the use
of doaestiL contractors. During negotiations, the Government stated that it
intends to carry out a study on the role of domestic and foreign contractors
and force account in constructing roads. Such a study will help establish
and 5mplement a policy which will further assure that roads will be
constructed most economically and efficiently. It was also agreed that the
Government would formulate such a policy and discuss it with IDA by June 30,
1989.
41.      Maintenance:  The rapid development of the road network in the
1970's was not matched by an improved maintenance capability because of a
serious shortage in funds, equipment and manpower. Since 1978, HA has
undertaken a road maintenance program assisted under the Third Highway
Project (Credit 794-YAR), which, inter alia, financed the purchac. of the
necessary maintenance agreement and supported improvements in HA workshops.
In 1985, the road maintenance budget was increased by 20X to $6.2 million
equivalent. The main bottleneck in adequate maintenance remains the scarcity
of sufficiently trained personnel to operate and maintain the available
equipment, run the newly equipped workshops and supervise and monitor the
work of the maintenance teams. This is being taken care of through a well
designed and successful training program (paras. 45-47).



- 11 -
42.     Road maintenance is now HA's highest priority.  Maintenance of the
3,250 km road network is carried out with HA's own equipment and manpower.
Routine and periodic maintenance, particularly on the main roads is
satisfactory. In the case of some major roads, overlays are carried out by
contractors.
43.     Maintenance of IDA roads are carried out by LDA's.  In the long run,
when HA has built up sufficient capacity, the more important of the LDA's
roads would be integrated into the main road network upgraded and maintained
by KA.
44.     Planning:  Usually road investment planning is carried out by HA on
the basis of traffic counts, a review of regional development needs, and
feasibility studies for major investments particularly those which are funded
externally. However, in the Third Five-Year Investment Plan (1987-91), road
investments will be based on the recommendations of the Highway Master Plan
Study (para. 36) which emphasizes adequate conservation (maintenance) of
existing roads. Construction of new roads, except in the case of a few low
standard roads to serve isolated areas or roads justified by the recent oil
and gas discoveries, will have second priority because of the urgency of
maintenance and the limited availability of foreign aid.
45.     Training:  To increase the availability of skilled personnel and
improve the effectiveness of road maintenance, consultants engaged under the
Third Highway Project designed a training program based on an inventory of
existing and required manpower in HA. A Vocational Training Center (VTC) at
Taiz was established to carry out these training activities. The program is
now being implemented with excellent results after an initial delay due to
difficulties in recruiting a team of expatriate instructors.
46.     Training is provided for seven specialties required by HA and the
Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations (CYDA): auto mechanics, auto
electricians, plant mechanics, road supervisors, machinists, welders and
plant operators. Classes are given by expatriate instructors, each assisted
by Yemeni counterpart instructors. At end 1985, about 450 trainees had been
accepted, of which 320 had graduated and are working for HA. Seventy
graduates are working for CYDA, which represents an important part of the
technical assistance provided by HA to CYDA. Recently the private sector
started sending to the FTC their own staff for training.
47.     Twelve trainees with the highest level of education and experience
were selected as counterparts to the expatriate instructors and are expected
to take over as instructors of that training school by the end of 1987. In
addition to the above specialists, HA needs training for its high level
staff. A study is planned in 1986 to analyze those needs and draw a specific
program with the VTC, which will be financed under the Fifth Highway Project
(Credit 1413-YAR).
48.     Engineering:  Up to 1980, all engineering designs had to be prepared
by foreign consultants. Following strengthening of its Design Division, HA
now carries out the design of all projects with the exception of some large



- 12 -
internationally financed projects which are designed by foreign consultants.
The YAR has not yet developed a comprehensive set of highway design
standards. In the past, various consultants employed their own national
standards, resulting in a lack of uniformity in the road network. However,
as agreed with the Association, the Highway Master Plan consultants will
provide a manual of design standards to assure uniformity of design for all
KA roads in the future. The Highway Master Plan also provides
recommenattions on design standards for roads built by LDAs.
IDA Involvement in YAR's Transport Sector
49.      IDA has actively assisted YAR since 1972 to develop its basic
transport system and institutions. The Government has successfully
implemented six projects, financed by $56.0 million equivalent in IDA
credits, and has maintained a constructive dialogue with IDA which has
resulted in significant improvements in sector policies. In highways, HA was
established and strengthened, a training school was established and
successfully operated, a road maintenance program was implemented, axle-loads
were limited, accounting improved and economic project evaluation
introduced. In ports, cargo handling was improved, cost accounting
introduced, tariffs increased, and an engineering department established.
50.      IDA's first involvement in transport in the YAR was the First
Highway Project (Credit 315-YAR, approved in FY73), which was cofinanced with
the Kuwait Fund. The project emphasized technical assistance to the newly
established HA, and provided for feasibility and engineering studies for
priority roads, construction of the Taiz-Turba road, and the purchase of road
equipment. The Second Highway Project (Credit 558-YAR, FY75), also
cofinanced with the Kuwait Fund, financed the continuation of technical
assistance to HA, and the construction of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road. The audit
report for these first two highway projects acknowledged that they had
contributed to a substantial improvement of many aspects of highway
operations in YAR.
51.      The Third Highway Project (Credit 794-YAR, approved in FY78),
cofinanced with the OPEC Fund, financed additional technical assistance for
HA, focused more closely on the road maintenance problem by including
equipment for road maintenance, mechanical workshops and maintenance depots;
training and fellowships; vehicle weighing stations; 3 km of pavement
overlay; and preparation of a Highway Master Plan (para. 36). The Credit was
closed on December 31, 1985, and a Project Completion Report is being
prepared.
52.      The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1267-YAR, approved in FY82),
cofinanced by the Arab Fund, provides for strengthening the Taiz-Al Mafraq
road, and also includes studies and technical assistance and training to
improve transport sector organization and road operation which are ongoing.
Progress is satisfactory, -nd the road works were completed at end-1984.
53.      The Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1413-YAR, approved in FY83)
provided for the construction to paved standard of the Ibb-Al Udayn road,



- 13 -
plus a two-year continuation of the technical assistance and training program
begun under the Third Project. Project implementation started in mid-1985
after a one-year delay caused by a slow selection of supervision consultants.
54.     The Port Project (Credit 714-YAR, approved in FY77), cofinanced with
the Kuwait Fund, included dredging, berth construction, and equipment for the
port of Eodeidah, as well as improvements at Mocha and technical assistance
to PIAC to increase the efficiency of port operations and to improve
financial management and accounting. It was successfully completed in March
1983. The audit report for the project noted that the improvements were
timely and enabled the port of Hodeidah to cope with extreme traffic
congestion. That project contributed to establishing a badly needed
engineering department, and to improving cargo handling, cost accounting,
statistics, and tariffs.
55.     The Transport Sector Memorandum (4990-YAR, dated November 1985)
serves as a vehicle for continuing our dialogue with the Government. It
discusses YAR accomplishments in developing its transport system and focuses
on the priority areas for further work. It emphasizes the need for the
Government to improve the administration of the transport system and
maintaining/rehabilitating the existing roads. The Highway Master Plan Study
makes specific recommendations on this subject.  The Memorandum also
recomends that YAR should plan for future port expansion because port
traffic is likely to increase further with the commnrcialization of oil.
56.     Development Priorities in the Road Subsector:  The road subsector
will continue to require a considerable level of investment in the coming
years to serve the needs of YAR's rapidly developing economy. The carrying
capacity of many existing main roads needs to be upgraded to the requirements
of increased traffic loads. Parallel to the phyrical development of the road
system, institutions and policies connected with the subsector need to be
strengthened further. These needs justify the continued involvement of the
Association in this subsector to help YAR develop its basic transport system
and institutions.
57.     Rationale for [DA's Involvement:  The recent oil/gas discovery
followed by the construction of a 10,000 bpd refinery at the oil wells site
in Safir, prompted the Government to request IDA'   support to finance this
urgent road investment to facilitate the use of oil resources for domestic
consumption, thereby reducing YAR'a import bill. The road would also
facilitate the provision of agricultural imports to, and the marketing of
agricultural products from an area adjacent to the road and which is being
developed for agricultural producticn following completion of a new dam which
would permit irrigation of up to 50,000 ha.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.     HA, assisted by expatriate experts financed under the Third Highway
Project, prepared the feasibility study, and detailed engineering for the



- 14 -
project. It was appraised in November 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from May 5 to May 15, 1986. The YAR delegation was headed by the
Minister of Public Works and Chairman of the Highway Authority and included a
representative of the Central Planning Organization. A staff appraisal
report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic: Marib-Safir Road Project" (No. 6108
YAR) dated May 28, 1986, is being distributed separately. The main features
of the credit and the project are mentioned in the credit and project summary
and in Annex III. A map showing the project road and the transportation
network is attached.
59.      Proiect Obiectives and Description:  The proposed project is
designed to assist the YAR Government in its efforts to:
(a)  facilitate the substitution of domestic oil for imported products by
permitting the transport of refined products from a refinery at the
oil field (expected to be fully operational in mid-1986) to domestic
markets;
(b)  facilitate the further development of the oil fields;
(c)  facilitate the development of the agricultural production in the
Wadi As Sudd area (population 78,000) which will be irrigated by the
Marib dam completed in April 1986; and
(d)  increase the capability of the HA to design road works.
The project, expected to be implemented over the period of 1987-90,
will include:
(a)  Completion to paved standard of a new road from Marib to Safir (62.5
km.), which is currently being constructed to gravel standard
(sub-base) by HA force account, and
(h)  the supervision of construction by consultants.
60.      Road Upgrading:  The road links Marib, the capital of the
Governorate of Marib and the present end of the paved road network, with the
oil fields and refinery at Safir, which is on the edge of the Al Raba Al
Khaly desert. The selected alignment passes close to, but not through, the
most densely populated and cultivated areas which lie along the banks and on
the alluvial deposits of the Wadi As Sudd. Practically all the alignment is
in desertic land. The road was intentionally designed to border the Wadi As
Sudd to avoid any loss of agricultural land.
61.      The gravel road (first phase, constructed by force account by HA)
consists of an embankment made of local soil, topped by a 40 cm thick
gravel/selected granular material subgrade and a 20 cm thick gravel subbase.
The second phase, to be financed under the proposed project, would include
the addition of a 20 cm thick crushed aggregate base course plus a 4 cm thick
asphalt concrete wearing course. The asphalt concrete carriageway would be
7 m wide with compacted gravel shoulders 1.5 m wide. The second phase would



- 15 -
include the construction of a 250 m long ford across the Wadi As Sudd, the
only important drainage structure along the road, plus several irrigation
pipes. The design standards were determined on the basis of expected traffic
loadings and the physical condition of the terrain.
62.      Proiect Cost:  The total cost of the proposed Marib-Safir Road
including physical and price contingencies (both phases) is estimated at
$26.2 million equivalent including a foreign exchange component of $14.0
million. The second phase of the road, to be financed under the proposed
project, is estimated to cost $14.5 million equivalent, including a $8.3
million foreign exchange component.
63.      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from engineering
designs and on unit rates derived from the individual works and checked
against recent contract awards and works by force account in YAR. The
foreign costs are estimated from a breakdown of cost components. Taxes to be
paid by the contractor locally amount to about 12 percent of total cost;
taxes on imports have been excluded as the project is exempt from them. The
supervision of works is estimated to cost $1.0 million, of which $0.7 million
would be required to supervise the second phase, to be financed under the
project.
64.      The cost estimates include a physical contingency of five percent
for both civil works and construction supervision to cover possible increases
in quantities. Price escalation has been calculated assuming the following
rates of inflation for local and foreign costs for the periods 1986-90:
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Foreign (2)    7.2        6.8       6.8        7.0       7.1
Local (X)     10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0
65.      Financing:  The proposed IDA credit of $10 million equivalent would
finance about 69 percent of the total costs, or 100 percent of the estimated
foreign cost and 38 percent of the local cost (excluding taxes) of the
proposed project (second phase).
66.      The remaining local costs will be financed by the Government.
During negotiations the Government confirmed its commitment to fund these
costs.
67.      Proiect Preparation:  HA, assisted by international experts financed
by IDA under the Third Highway project (Credit 794-YAR), has completed the
economic feasibility study and the final engineering design for both phases
of the Narib-Safir road which were reviewed and approved by the Association
during negotiations. Construction of the first phase is very advanced and is
expected to be completed by October 1986. Consultants for the supervision of
the first phase were selected with IDA agreement and are being financed under
the Fifth Highway project (Credit 1413-YAR). The terms of reference for
supervision consultants for the second phase have been finalized and agreed
with the Association during negotiations.



- 16 -
68.     Prolect Implemntation:  HA is satisfactorily constructing the road
to sub-base (gravel) standard by force account. Selecting a contractor
through ICB would delay the completion of the road to paved standard by
around 9 onths and would increase the cost of mobilization and maintenance
and decrease the expected vehicle operating cost savings. Moreover, a
contractor might face difficulties working in remote areas where local tribes
have jurisdiction over land and water. Therefore, the road would be
co"structed by HA force account. CPO would be responsible for implementing
the proposed project and would employ consultants to assist it in supervising
the construction. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of experts to be selected were agreed during negotiations
(pars. 67). Employment of consultants for construction supervision is a
condition of effectiveness of the project.
69.     Due to the urgency attributed to this project, the YAR Government
assured the Association that it is taking necessary measures to fulfill all
conditions of effectiveness before October 1986 and to complete the project
by the end of 1987. The implementation schedule was discussed and agreed
with the Borrower during negotiations.
70.     CPO will submit quarterly progress reports to the Association
detailing the progress of civil works and the effectiveness of consultant
supervision. Within six months of the closing date of the credit, the
Borrower would provide the Association with a completion report.
71.     Accounting and Auditing:  In 1983, HA introduced a new financial
and cost accounting system which covers almost all areas of financial
mansement.  Separate accounts are kept for each project.  HA agreed under
the Fourth and Fifth Highway projects to have project-related expenditures
audited by independent auditors and submitted annually to the Association.
Agreement was reached during negotiations to continue such an arrangement
under the proposed project.
72.     Procurement:  The civil works ($11.3 million excluding price
contingencies) will be implemented using HA force account under a single
unit-price agreement with CPO which was reviewed and approved during
negotiations. The asphalt required for the civil works ($1.4 million out of
the $11.3 million) will be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank group procurement guidelines. The asphalt cost
of each item would be subtracted from each work certificate to avoid double
counting. Based on the present country implementation profile, it is
expected that works will be completed by mid-1989. During negotiations these
arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the Borrower.
73.     Disbursement:  The proceeds of the proposed credit will finance:
(a) 55 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditure. for the purchase of asphalt;
and
(c) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for consultant services for
supervision of civil works.



- 17 -
Following signature of agreement between CPO and HA, funds for civil works
would be withdrawn by CPO on the basis of certificate of works and/or
statement of expenditures. Disbursement for procurement of asphalt and for
supervision of civil works will be made upon full documentation being
provided to the Association. In order to facilitate timely withdrawal of the
proceeds of the credit, the Borrower will open, maintain and operate a
Special Account with the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The initial deposit will be $1 million
equivalent, based on the estimated disbursement schedule, to be replenished
as required.
74.      The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989 and
disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1990 based on the
actual implementation of the civil works component of the Fourth Highway
Project. However the schedule of disbursements discussed and agreed with the
Borrower during negotiations projects that the project will be completed by
the end of 1987 (para. 69).
75.      Supervision:  As discussed and agreed during negotiations,
construction supervision ($0.7 million equivalent) will be carried out by CPO
with the assistance of qualified consulting engineers, selected and appointed
on the basis of Bank Group guidelines.
76.      Employment Effects:  Construction of the road is expected to provide
employment for about 250 persons during a construction period of two years.
By increasing transport and facilitating further development of the oil
fields, and by boosting agricultural and economical development, the project
is also expected to generate new employment opportunities which will benefit
the Wadi As Sudd area, one of the poorest areas of the country.
77.     Environment:  Construction of the Marib-Safir Road will not
detrimentally affect the environment. The alignment was selected to pass
close to, but not through, land with agricultural potential. Paving the road
will avoid adding dust to the air. Concentrating traffic on the road will,
in fact, considerably reduce the dust and erosion associated with traffic
moving on multiple desert tracks. The road will make several ancient
monuments more accessible to tourists; the Government is constructing fences
to protect these monuments.
78.      Benefits and Risks:  The main benefits from the proposed project are:
(i) savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) for traffic associated vith
the 10,000 bpd refinery and for agricultural traffic in the Wadi As
Sudd area.
(ii) facilitating the further exploration and possible development of the
undrilled structures in the Narib basin, and
(iii) facilitating further agricultural development in the area.



- 18 -
79.     The project will increase economic activity for the Wadi As Sudd
population (78,000) who have no paved road access at present. The road will
also improve national integration in this remote and tribal area bordering
both Saudi Arabia and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).
80.     Based on VOC savings only, the economic rate of return (ERR) for
constructing the Marib-Safir Road (Phase I plus Phase 2) is conservatively
estimated at 22 percent. The ERR for improving the road from gravel to
asphalt standard (Phase 2, to be financed under the project) is
conservatively estimated at 13 percent. In the unlikely event that project
costs increased by 20 percent or that project benefits decreased by 20
percent the ERR of the project (phase 2) would drop to 11 percent, a still
acceptable level.
81.      Because HA has successfully executed some road construction
projects, including the first phase of this project, there are no special
risks associated with the proposed project beyond an unlikely delay in
implementation which may take place. However, the project implementation
schedule has been estimated on the basis of a conservative profile. In fact,
because of the use of HA force account, the proposed project could be
completed in 15 months, which is the implementation target HA is pursuing.
PART V
82.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with he
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
83.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1986



- 19-                                      ANNEX I
TA' LR RA                                      Page  1 of  6
NUNCART               - SOCAL INDICATOLI DATA SHEET
HUNCARY                             RVPRENCE cGRs (WElGHTED AVERAGFI) /a
MOST                    ("OSR RECENT ESTIMATV /b
RE.              RANNT  ANT EEOPKAH       INtDUTIA.L
19~/b    9170tb nUTIinA/b         N-AKET sCOeoU           MARKET  co ss
a  (muss sq. o)
TUTAL                              91.0       93.0       93.0
AGRICULTURL                        71.1       64.        65.4
cG  PR CAPILTA U                       ..         .. 1)50.0                    ..                   11062.9
131SCT WflmON PE CAPTTA
(KILOGRAM  UF OIL IQUIVALEXT)    1354.0     2070.0     2863.0            *18.1                    4991.3
POUI;ASIO  A-  VITAL STATrncs
POPULATfON.MIIr-TMA  (TCHOSANDS)   9"4.0    10337.0    106".0
UIAN POPULATION (t o0 TOTAL)       40.1       47.9       54.S              S3.8                     76.7
POPULATION PrtOJECTIuWs
POPULATION IN TEA 2000 (HILL)                          10.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           11.0
POPULATION MMNTU                                        1.1
POPULATION UENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     107.3      111.1      135.0              42.5                    140.6
PEE Sq. ic. ACRE. LANO          139.8      150.4      162.7              66.4                    522.2
POPULATION ACE STRLJCTURE (S)
0-14 IRS                        25.3       20.8       21.7               24.4                    21.3
15-64 TRS                        65.6       67.6       63.2              65.4                     66.6
b5 AND ABOVE                      9.0       12.5       32.9               10.0                    12.0
POPULATION CRWTN RATE C)
ToTAL                             0.7        0.3        0.3               0.3                      04
UItIAN                            1.5        2.1         1.4               1.8                     1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIUS)        14.7       14.7       11.9               19.0                    13.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       10.2       11.6       13.9               10.5                     8.9
GROES REPROCUCTION RATE             1.0        1.0        0.9                1.2                     0.9
FAMILY PUNNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL CTOUS)         ..       149.0 tc   711.8 tc
USERS (Z OF KALRIED WOMN)         ..        67.0 d    74.0 .-.            ..                      71.1
FD AND WaIT1ON
INDEX OF r0OD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-tOO)                      83.0       91.3      147.0              109.6                   107.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REqUIREMENTS)    119.0      127.0       134.0             133.2                   132.9
PStOTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        84.0       91.0       95.0              100.0                   101.0
OF WHICH ANIMAUL AND PULSE      36.0       39.0       46.0 1.            53.8                    61.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         3.6        2.4        1.0               1.8                      0.4
ZLI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BERI  (YEARS)      68.4       *9.6       69.9              69.6                     75.5
INFANT MOT. RATE (PER THOUS)       47.6       35.9       19.0              19.6                      9.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (Xror)
TOTAL                            22.7       36.6 f     64.9 Jsh
URAN                              ..        65.0 A     83.8   h...
RURAL                             ..                   42.*1.  ..  ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-        27.2       53.3 /. 
ULBA                              ..        50.1 7j.    72.4 
RURAL                             ..         6.2       30.8               ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          720.0      510.0      400.0 lb          34U.7                    553.2
POP. PER NUSING PERSON            330.0 /1    30.0      150.0 7;           130.7                   166.8
POP. PR HOSPITAL -M
TOTAL                           140.0      120.0       110.0             88.6                    120.9
DUEIY                            80.0 IL   140.0       130.0 /a         109.0                   143.2
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..             15766.7                   778.8
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        2.5        21.6 /h            16.4                    17.8
AVERACS SIF. OF HOUSEHLD
TOTAL                             3.1        3.0        2.3 lb
uRBN                              ..         2.7        2.7 7i
RURAL                             ..         3.2        3.0 7h
AVERSGE NO. OF PERSNS/ROOM
TOTAL                             2.4        2.0        1.5 /b
UJAN                              ..         1.9         .5 7ir
RURAL                             ..         2.0        1.6
PERCTAGE OF DIELLINS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                            74.6       91.7       98.1 /h
UIS                               ..        96.6       99.t 7h
RURAL                             ..        87.4       96.9S.



-20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
NOCIAL o01 W hr(Mm? tT            UCONCTID hASL) 1
Itob        197a  UWZ"TSM           SNPAM  9NW U2                 If  Ucm
owanal ~    ~      ~     ~      ak        int    8IMUk           NUAIZ    enu                    IUIRA
ADJUVM  ENROLUWI?  4120
PiuIAuva   TOTAL                  101.0        97.0       100.0              106.3                      101.4
MALB                   03.0        96.0       100.0               96.1                      102.1
135MM                  100.0        97.0       100.0               97.6                      102.6
SIONDAC!i tOTAL                    23.0        *3.0        73.0               ag.7                       s7.1
MALA                    21.0        71.0        74.0               70.5                       80.3
-                       24.0        55.0        72.0               74.9                      54.1
VOCATIONAL (0 ai 6zNDAM)             30.4        73.6        74.1                32.5                      16.4
IUPZL-IIAOCNII AnO
1321411                            24.0        15.0        15.0               12.2                       16.7
NWCONEAT                           11.0        26.0        19.0                16.0                      11.6
PAJIIUNGU  CAIU/IUOUNA    POP         3.3        23.2       108.8               97.3                      3".3
RADIO RCUPEmI/rUOA   MP             222.8       244.8       261.3              429.6                     1093.2
TV uctV!Vs/THOU3AND Po               10.4       171.1       262.2              286.4                      492.3
NIiUUPRtC ("DAIL! GUNRAL
IURgur') CIICULATIN
PER TUOUSIAD POPULATION            143.6       213.3       244.9              265.8                      320.4
CTNM  ANNAL ATTNDANECAPI             14.0         7.7         6.4                12.9                       3.3
TOTAL LOOM  *O0  (CTUG)            4777.0      5031.0      5196.0
PENALI (PUCUIT)                    36.4        42.0        42.7               a?.3                       36.2
AGRIOCULTU   (P=CT)                38.7        25.2        20.5 A              17.3                       6.2
IUTY  CPER0EIT)                   34.3        44.4        42.9 4             43.7                       37-7
ARtICIPAThON NATE (MICEN)
TOTAL                              47.8        48.7        48.6               51.1                       46.0
4ALE                               63.1        36.2         57.4               56.7                      59.5
PENALE                             33.7        39.7        40.0               46.0                       32-7
'GO=tC 0DEPI C  PATIO                 0.7         0.7         0.7                0.7                        0.7
.NU DIEltS
3tC   OF IPlVAZV  IN=
-Ifeft7D sr
;Xlos  5 0o  NOPSENOLOS            12.1 A      11.5 Ak.    10.6 A
h.CUST 202 o0   UIOLDs             34.8#       33.7 7E     32.3 A             *3.
LOWEST 2020? 0WJSENOS               9.4         9         10.8 A-                                        5.4
LOWEST 4020? UUSZNOL               23.46       2 24.8      26.2                 .                        16-4
ESTIMA     ASIUOLVT PORTT INCONE
LM   (uss        CayTAr
lanAi..                                ..          ..                 ..                         ^
RMAL
STIWATO  RnLATVE PFOER  INCOQE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URA                                 ........
ma                        ~........
ESTITD  POP. BZLOW ASLOTE
PO9R11 INCEIE LEVEL (Z)
URA                                 ..          ..          ..                 ..                         .
AUA.                                ..          ..          ..                 ..
.. NOT AVAYiLAL_
NOT6 APPLICAILE
f    The group arae  for each idilCaor are populactla-weghted aritbettc mano. Covere of countrese
mqg the indicators depers  on avallablity of data ant Sr not uifom.
ltlue   otbrn$as noted, "Data for 1960'" rater to any yar betwen 1939 ad 1961; "Data for 1970" btween
1969 and 1971; and dana fcr "tet RAcat Zaiate" between 1981 and 19J3.
/     o Vrns of reproductlye age C17-49) usig oral contraceptives; td 1966. women of reproductive age iees
than 45 Yea"; /L 197; It VDea of rwprodnct$ve age las. tG 40 year; IL Pereontag  of occupid
dweliig; /b 1980; /1 2WU; a  1978;       Percentage of inca received by the respective peresnt of
the popuitlcn. and fite refer to yearn          !972  nd 1977.
Jul, 1985



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DIFlWITMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOES
Notes Although thedaw aredrawn from souret uerallyjudgeid ie mostauthontative and rdtable. it should also be noled thal they maynot be internationally
comprabk  becaue of the lack of stendardazed ddnitionr and concpts ud by diffent countsi im coleemng the data. The data sm. norheIns. useful to
descnbe orders of magnitude. tndicate rads. and charctnsn cnanes, tnj diferences betwe  counsri.                A
The refernce group are Ilj1 the sanw coumtry group he subjct country asd (2) a country group with omwhat laher a'grap income than ihe country
groupofthesubletcountryl_eacetfor- HighIncomeOilExporerCgroup-whe  MIddleIncomeNohAfric endMiddleeer schoernbauseoftruernr
sococultural aefinitl n the referenc group dta the avera   popuion wightd rihmtic n  for each indicrator and shown only when mapoiy
of thecouriesingroupha data fortha tindictor. Sirethecovraeofcountreamogthietdicatoredpds onaviabihtyofdeadisnotuniform. 
cauttonmustbeesrcedtt ringaveraiofoneidicaiorto nothr.Tbeaverapsaronly u incompanngtvhenlu ofonendcatorataitme stng
the country amd refraece group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Cr   hif* Rat (pw thaewdD-Number orlive births in the year
Tot-Total surface area compnsing land area and inland waters;  per tbound of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crd Death Roe (pr rmuad_ -Number or deaths in the year
grieuihaall-Estim ate of agricultusrl area used temporarily or  per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
pernanently for crops. pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Grow RepedoS Ran-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 19e2 data.                          will bear in her normal reptoductive period if she experiences
prsent age-speific fertilty rates uually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimaites at cumnt        in 1960 1970. and 1933.
market prices, calulated by .tme conversion method a Word      FUWAssPdng-Acepe.  AnsI (rhess)-Annual num-
Banik Atlas (1911-33 basis): 1913 data.                        ber of accpton of atth-control devires under auspices or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planing prom.
consumnpton of cummercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fiiy PIaq-Uses (pawnsfltSs sf s       tmirle jm-The peren-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dee  tag of married women orchild bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose hubands ae practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1912 data.                                                     ofchild-bearing age are generally women ad 1549. although for
sone counUies conUaceptive uage is measured for other age
PPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups
Toa Ppelhsw MN-Yea (tta dei-As of July 1; 1960, 1970,          FOOD AND NUTRtMON
and 1913 data.
uri_  _opwAodw (pereem of soadJR tatio or urban to totxl       An<Idlez.f dPrlcl   Pa C s (196-71 - 100)-Index of per
Urhs optalal.. (prceunt o 96 t    1970I-Razo of urban tor total capita anua  production or a  fod commodities. Prodution
population; different defititions of urba area may affect cocper-  exlu    anal feed and enod for agricuture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries 1960,197. and 1913 data.       indude primary comnmdities (e.g. suprcn insted of sugar)
-_         -r                                                   whicb are edible and contsi nutrients (e.g coffee and tea are
Popution ie year 2000-The projection of populatiOn for 2000    exduded) they comprie ceal  root crops. puls. oil seeds.
made for each ecnomy sparately. Stating with information on    vegbles fruits, nuts sugarne ad su  bees livestock, and
total population by age and sex, ertility rates, mortalty rate and  livestock produc. Aggregate production of each country a based
intentional migation in the bass year 19B0. thew parameters    on ntional averag  producer price weightr: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geneized  1982 data.
assumptions until the popultion becme stationary.              PhrCGfasq4ejCsi     ebrys(pmens  .Nqe_mea)--C omput-
Statiawy popsatioSn-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of nat food supplie available in country
taGty rates have not changed over a long period, while ge-specific  per capt per day. Availble supplies compnse dometc produc-
fertlity rates have simultaneously mained at teplcnt level     tion imports les exports, and changs in stock  Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth -fe is  exclude anial feed, seeds formu in agiculture. quantites used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stadonary populaton  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected chaacteristics of  and bealth consering environmental temnperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of deline of fertility  age and ex distribution of population and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemnt level.                                      waste at bousebold level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data,
Popuatiao Moneaun-ls the tendecry for population growth to    Pr C.Wm SG4b      of PAwe  (r am  per dqj--Protein content of
continue beyond tbc timc that replacement-level fertility bas bean  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is deffied
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rae has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establisbed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is mee.ured as  provide for minimun allowances of 6o grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of wbich 10 grams
the year r. given ti e assumption that fertility remains at repac-  should be animal protein. Thews standards.are lower than thosc of
ment level from year : onward 1985 data.                       7 grams of total protein and 23 grans of aninal protein as an
Pop vtion Density                                              average for the world, propowed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec    Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1932 data
tarn) of total area; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.                 Per C&a*t Rhtei 5any From Adai! md Poke-Protcin supply
Per sqks agrindtural Iad-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulss ingrams per day; 196145.
Iand only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 dau.                           1970 and 1977 data
P     qpedu Age Sheucts. (percafl-Children (0-14 years). work-  CAN (age I-Li Deak Rat (per thumad)-Number ofdeaths of
ingase(15-4years).andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentag        chiklden aed 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year popultion 1960. 1970. and 1983 da.             .  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Ppuleroe Growt1 Rter (pernarI- rotal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 daua.
total mid-year population for.1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
&OPW7E Gnit Re (perGcatr-uhei--Annual growth rates             Lf Erpewecy at  irh (jean-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data    infant would live if prvailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the sme throughout its life;  P'upII-meacher Ratio- primary, and secondar-Total students en.
1960, 1970 and 1913 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary leves divided by numbers of
Infw Mrnsy Rpoe (per t,himmj-Number of infants who die    teachen in the corresponding level..
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Acce  te Soft  Wotr (peret of p_pJtfei)-telaI, Nobe,  ud      huege Car (ipr thu"Mmd popuLutkuJ-Nssenger cars corn-
rn4-Number of peopb (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonable  prim motor cars sating le  than eiSht pesons; excludes ambul-
accs to sae water supply (includes trated surface wats or      ncem. hearses and miliry vehiclesd
nutted but unootinated watei such m thtt from protected       RAtoe Recers (pr thounand populuuleni-All types of receivers
borehole. sprins and  unitay wl) as perentage of their repe-  for radio broadcasts to  erl public per thousand of population;
tive populadtos. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensd receiven in countries and in yean when
located not mor than 200 mr from a hous may be considered     registration of radio set was in effect; data for recent year may
as being withun reonable acm of that house. In rund arm       not be comparable since most countries abolisd licensing.
reasnable amc  would mply that the houwife or merbers of th   TVRKIfrW  tamdpepmauimm-TVreceivesforbroadcast
houin hld do not have to aed a disproportionate part of the day  to geal public per thousand popuLadon; exdcudes unlicend TV
in fetching the family's water needs,                         receivers in countries and in years when registrttion of TV sewt was
Acem se Exert Db_pW  (pfm    of p       tphlnj-r't ad, "rw    in effecL
nd rsel-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) sved by
ecreta disposal u perentages or their espective populations  N             a       (per se aver-
Excreta disposal my include the collection .nd disposal. with or  age ciuion of daily eneral in t newspaper." ddnd as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodcl publicatin devoted pnmualy to recordig gnal newsL
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be dQiy" if it appeas at kla  four times a week.
P_pdatle per Phoidm-fbpulation divided by number of prac-     C _wme AwI ANUI.ce par Cq*a pw  Ye_r-Based on the
ting physicu  qualified from a medicl school at univerimty leve  number of ticke  sold during the year. including admissions to
hpll  per NwraW hrven-Population divided by number of         drve-in ciemas and mobile unita
practicing male and female graduate nurse, asistant nurses,   LABOR FORCE
pratcal nurses and nuning auxiliaies.
?bpieleui jm  H ipAi Ble-rd.  hem ad inw-oplt                 rota Labor Fec, firketwona)-Economiically active persons in-
(total, rban, and ural) divided by their rpctve number of     cluding ar med forces an  unemployed but excluding housewe.
students. etc.. covering population of all ags  Definitios in
hospital beds available in public and private generAl and SpW-1md various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation cnter  HospDal are stabens
permanently staffed by at lut one physician Establishments prv-  F k (porcemj-Female labor force as percentage of tota labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hopitls,  force.
however. include health and medicl center not pernetly staffed  Agrkuhw  (prcJ-IAbor force in fanning forestry, buoting
by a physipan (but by a medical asistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fish   as percentae of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 198D
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited noge  data.
of medical facilitieL                                         IadsVy (pereeui-Labor force in mining. constucto  manu-
Admison per Hospital hi-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity, water and gaS as percenta  of total labor
discharges fromn hospitals divided by the number of beds.     fomre 1960. 1970 and 1910 data.
Pbdlcs* eR r lte(pfer j-qo_4ukal . mijimW-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rtes are computed as total male. and fema lbor fonr
Avaq. Siw of HaweAl (p-s         r Ne korie&j--eoo4  wiw,     a pemtages of total male and femsai populat   of all ag
Andrl-Ahoeholdconsss ofapo ofindividunawho shae               respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 daa. Tbese are bad on Mls
living quarte  and their main mab. A boarder or lodger may or  paruction rat refecting g-sex structure of the popultion and
may not be inluded in the household for stisdil purpoe.       long tne trend. A few estima  am from national sourom
Arage lNumber of Person pew R.om.-ro    when, ad rraI-        Economic Ddpuadmy Rade-Ratio of pooulation under I 5. and
Average number of persons per roorn in all urban, and rural   65 and over. t the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pemanent structures and unoccupied par.                   INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Pere-eqe of Delg w Eih Ekcswierp-eoral, m. nd ruro--          hensage of Toef Di*pmal Inm   (h  m ck sh    kisd)-
Conventional dwellinp with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing w pertile groups of households rsanked by total house-
tape of total, urban. and rura dwdlings rpectively.           hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERIY TARGET GROUPS
A    qued E iorrj  Rljo                                       The following cemtes are very approxmte mnsures of poverty
Prnary school - totl, male and femae-Gross total. manc       levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female cnrollment of al ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Esrhwad Absolue Puars famw Led (r US pes coWera-wheo
respective primary chool-ge populatons. While many countries  and riAl-Absolute poverty income leive is bat income -leid
consider prinmry school age to be 6-11 yeas, others do not. The  below which a miniral nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pract   in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios givim For some countries with univeral  Eathee Reavdw PomJty Iome Levd (US per capita -rso
education, gross enrollment mrn   ceed 100 percent since some  ef Rn-*-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prinmary-school  averge per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustnent for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. malr andf-mak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Es    pmbrsm 5.1w Absoue Pvarey Inca. 1uLe. (pa-
mary inStniction provides generaL vocationaL or teacher training    - cn j-,rr  d nrwl- Percent of population (urbon and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 year of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.N
ence courses are gcneraly exdcuded.
Vocational EirolLmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institi-        Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technal industraL or other programs which operate        Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepedently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1984                   (Constant Price)
($m - Current Prices)        FY1977-83       1984
GNP at Market Prices                3806                    6             2
GDP at Market Prices                3354                    7             2
Imports of GNFS                     1673                    5            -9
Exports of GNFS                      220                   15             1
Consumption                         4105                    4            -2
of which:  Government            (1333)                  20            -5
Investment                           702                    9            -8
Gross National Savings               391                   -9           -16
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
$Mln       Z    Thousand        X          $        X
Agriculture            820       32        830        69         988       47
Industry               206        8         54         5        3815      182
Services              1492       60        318        26        4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE     2518      100       1202       100         2095     100
VERNME   FINANCE (YRIs Mln)
% of GNP
1978/79 1979/80  1981  1982  1983  1984    1984
Current Receipts                2161    2755  3329  3692  4401  4646        23
Curreut Expenditures            1847    2531  3325  5286  6201  5957        29
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314      224      4 -1594 -1800 -1307       -6
Capital Expenditure             2618    2492  3683  4017  2944  3100        15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure         -     523   792  1764   922   967         5
Overall Deficit                  848    2333  2949  5262  4807  4609        23
External Assistance, Net        1904     976  2436  2956  1752  1563         8
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YR1s Million Outstanding End Period -
1980      1981     1982      1983    1984
Money Supply                      9180      9905    12519    15967   20364
Domestic Credit                   4956      7273    11834    15981   20928
Of which:
Claims on Government           (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361) (16168)
Claims on Private Sector       (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3620)  (4760)
Percentages
1979/80   1981    1982      1983     1984
Honey Supply as  percent of GNP      63       64       69       83       100
Annual Increase (percent) in:
Money Supply                     16        8       26       28        28
Consumer Price Index             11        5        3        5        13



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ Mln)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Exports of Goods, fob                3       13     10       5     10       9
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1765  -1403
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1755  -1394
Non Factor Services, net           -36      -21    -51    -37    -51    -45
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924   1085    986
Official Grants                    312      148    337    468    186    142
Balance on Current Account        -138    -691   -664   -592   -535   -311
N & LT Capital, net a/             104      452    205    188    197    150
Disbursements on loans        (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)
Repayments of loans           (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       204      200    198      93    125     65
Overall Balance (- = deficit)      170     -39   -261   -311   -213    -96
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1984) b/
($ million)                 1984                                        X
Total Outstanding            2398         Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1688         Disbursed                     5.1
a/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
b/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EMlDA
February 1986



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986) a/
Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                        IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits fully disbursed                        118.9
794   1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways III                      11.5        1.9
805    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihaua Agriculture II            10.5        0.2
837    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Power Distribution               10.0        1.9
880    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture III           15.0        7.9
915    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Education III                    10.0        1.4
950    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0         11.3
978    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihams Agriculture IV             5.5        0.2
1025    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Fisheries Development            17.0        7.4
1067    19b0    Yemen Arab Republic    S. Uplands Rural Dev. II         17.0 bJ    2.1 b/
1122   1981    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development            12.0        1.2
1202    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Saa Urban Development            15.0        7.2
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Education IV                     12.0        7.1
1216    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Petroleum & Geothermal Explor.  2.0          1.2
1259    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agr. Research and Development   6.0          2.3
1267    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IV                       7.0        2.0
1294    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Health                           10.5        6.1
1308    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agricultural Credit               8.0        6.0
1340    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Education V                      10.0        8.4
1361    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Power III                        19.0       17.1
1413    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways V                       13.0       11.5
1441    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Urban II                         12.0       11.9
1453    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Central Highlands Ag. Devt.       8.0        7.8
1470   1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Education VI                      10.0       10.0
1547    1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development II         8.0        8.0
1556    1985    Yemen Arab Republic    TA to CPO                         4.7        4.7
1584 cl 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Wadi Al Jawf Ag. Devt.           10.0       10.0
Total                                                  394.5 d/
of which has been repaid                               1.7
Total now held by IDA                                  392.8
Total undisbursed                                                 156.8
a/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, wbich is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
bl Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
March 31, 1986, for the undisbursed amounts.
c/ Not yet effective.
d/ Excludes a credit of $12.7 million equivalent for a Technical Training project and a
credit of $10.0 million equivalent for a Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development
project, which were signed on May 9, 1986. Also excludes a credit of $12.0 million
equivalent for a Technical Assistance project to the Petroleum Sector and a credit of
$11.7 million equivalent for a Power IV project, both of which were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 15, 1986, but are not yet signed.



- 26 -
ANfl II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
(Amount in $ millions)
Year         Oblixor               Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products      3.15        -       3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries  3.25      0.91      4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil       4.58        -       4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1985    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery          9.00       -       9.00
1986    Marib Agriculture Company Citrus Fruit          2.40     0.46      2.86
Total Gross Commitments                       22.38      1.37     23.75
less cancellations, terminations,            2.35        -       2.35
repayments, sales
Total commnitments now held by IFC            20.03      1.37     21.40
Total Disbursed                               17.26      0.47     17.73
Total Undisbursed                              2.77      0.90      3.67
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                               One year
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         The Highway Authority (HA)
(c)  First presentation to IDA:                 July 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:            November 25, 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                May 15, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             October 1986
Section II: Special Conditions:
Condition of Effectiveness:
The employment of consultants acceptable to the Association for the
supervision of the construction of the road (para. 68).



IBRD 19544
_   - '  ; "' =   ,! fr                                                                        YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
S A U D  Aa RABIA                    MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
06k."                                        -    XPu TRANSPORT NETWORK
>   ;l q  ^        z                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prolct Road
H. -           \             a / ~(vv 1,~  First Through Fourth Hlghw!  Prol ot:
.. .,-                                                -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roabds Conelructod
W^,,|, SrS           /      \           -   r                                     Filth Highway Project
> ~             _        \           4                        ~        ~      Paved Road Under Conat,uction
^*  "- -- 1   ^S^^ ^   (   \                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other Rtocds
-. _VA /                          |                                           ---    Olier Paved Roads Under   eliabiltation
_______              _ w            SS AlA  DANH                                       --~Principal Gravel Roads
'   9-_  \                                                                * \  /<   |   @   Naonal Capitals
CitlMe, Towns and Villag
j   \  ~~~~~    \      J           X^-  j           s   bb~~~~~~~4   min Ports
'\\    |    \                      I                                    l ,+  International Airporta
'i..)                                                          Province Boundarils
internatlional Boundarlm
H2  A  J J A                                                     I _0    40   bO   to   MO
0   0             40        40
}   t  |         A*d       \                                  s~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILES   C
. tHf                }  ISANN 'A 
L.A..,.  w.X&    >                ~       -         |             MARIB
Al K                                     |                                                            ' Rula
Mdb.      . ,b-                         -; I
H~~~~~~~~
t18~~~~A *_ to1                          -v -9 _                                                 ,
At C.Aa_  y                        '--
!  PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLtC  OF  YEMEN
''  :   I .->                                                     ,.-   -       _,
;        \     /                                        | \  C
,_,  (4   ~~~,    ,{wv~.4      ^
,/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OSS4 '~j                                                           /
-J~~~d
/               ,                     ~~~~~~~~~~~GU1IF  Of AD/F/ ___w___.'
DJIBOUTI                                                                           ___
FEBRUARY 1986



YE MEN ARAB REP U B LI C
IDA - ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUDI ARABIA
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              C.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     Ag,6I. PRPL'SOE. EP O  YME
ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~ 02 DIrnool
8    ,0,.j5W.g
-P- 00 b fDo,       m
j\_  /                                                               ^@r*lFvd fP (  '  EQ'STQ16G FEMUPES
,/   DJIBOUTI                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4Ub o.,....
RED SEA      \ ,
RED =_S1EA                                      C   bl                        valsVD              SCI+ W.
ET.IOPIA                   PEOPLES OEM. REP. OP YEMEN                              c                i0
Gulf of Aden
DJIBOUTI                                                              c..oo',..
~~             +60~i
as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5






