Docun-e of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6108-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
May 28, 1986
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regibn
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January. 1 to December 31
Currency Unit                  = Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 0.138                      = YR 1.00
U$ 1.00                        = YR 7.25
US$137.931                     = YR 1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)                    = 0.6214 miles (m)
1 Square Kilometer (km2)             = 0.3894 square miles (sq. miles)
I hectare (ha)                       = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (= 1 ton)               = 0.9842 long ton (1g. ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT            - Average Annual Daily Traffic
bpd             - barrels per day
CAMA            - Civil Aviation and Meteorolbgy Authority
CPO             - Central Planning Organization
CYDA            - Confederation of Yemeni Development .ssociations
dwt             - deadweight tons
First Plan      - First Five-Year Plan (1977-81)
GDP             - Gross Domestic Product
GSTA            - General Secretariat for Transport Affairs
GTC             - General Transport Corporation
HA              - Highway Authority
ICB             - International Competitive Bidding
IDA             - International Development Association
LPG             - Liquid Propane Gas
LDA             - Local Development Association
MAFR            - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries Resources
MCT             - Ministry of Communications and Transport
M4PW            - Ministry of Public Works
PDRY            - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PMAC            - Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
Second Plan     - Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86)
TA              - Technical Assistance
Third Plan      - Third Five Yeat Plan (1987-91)
toe             - tons of oil equivalent
vpd             - vehicle per day
VOC             - Vehicle Operating Cost
VTC             - Vocational Training Center
YAR             - Yemen Arab Republic
YEMENIA         - YAR National Airline
YGTC            - Yemen General Transport Corporation
YHOC            - Yemen Hunt Oil Company
YPC             - Yemen Petroleum Corporation



1O OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARABIC REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I *  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR..............................I
A.  Background ...................    I
B.  The Oil Discovery .........   ...... * ......    2
C.  The Transport System... *... ..        ......        ..*  *  4
D.  Transport Organization, Planning and Policy.........    6
E.  Previous IDA Projects ............ .......... ...........   10
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ................................            11
A* The Road Network....................................    11
B.  T raffic .....t...............................   13
C.  Administration         .......           ......... ......*  13
B.  Planning .b....iv................................. ..   14
E.                      Fnci .......................................   15
F.  Engineering            ..................... ".   15
F.  Construction .nd..oi.... n.......... ....... .......   16
B.  Maintenance Eff....................... .   27
T r   Training .r . ......eu .nfo t.ir d... bt.he Highway....   18
J.  A     ccoun ting  and Auditingo.....ver -ent of....   ai
I1II   THE PROJECT ............}9
A. D ett     ing ...........e.s....  . Parker   ..........       19
B.  Project Objectiwves..........*. .......           ........   19
C*  Description*. .......                        ***.... ........... 20
D.  Engineering ......................... ........*   ..   20
E.  Cost             Esiae.. .......... .......... #* ...   21
F . Implementation       and Mo  nitoring .............          23
G.  Employment Effects .......................... 25
H.  Environment .............. ...0.0....       .      .......   25
Th is report was prepared using information provided by the Highway
Authority and other agencies of the Government of the Yomen Arab Republic
(YAR), and is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Yk', in December 1985 comprising Messrs. P. Parker (senior transport
economist) and L. Revuelta (senior transport engineer).
Thbs dcumnt ha  esticttd dindbutionad may be usd by ripints only in th pefanusnO
ofthi ofcial dusa Its contets may    otheribe be dIbcked wtbout Wofld Bank suthouiin.



Table of Contents (Continued)
-Paje No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..........................  ...4****e*   25
B.  Traffic .................................... .......   26
C.  Vehicle Operating Costs.............................   28
D.  Construction and Maintenance Costs ..................   28
E.  Results and Sensitivity Analysis ...................     28
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS       ..       . *** *....... .e........ ... .... 29
ANNEXES
1. Estimated Costs and Prices of Petroleum
Products, February 1986 ...........................    31
2. Road Expenditures and Road Related Revenues, 1984...   32
3. Existing Main Road Network..........................   33
4. Supervision of Construction - Draft Terms of Reference 34
5. Proposed Implementation Schedule ....................   37
6. Project Monitoring Indices                               38
7. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  .................   39
8. Economic Costs and lnefits..........................  40
9. Documents in the Project File                            41
CHARTS
1. HA Organization Chart:  World Bank 30355 .............  42
2. Cross Section of the Marib-Safir road:
World Bank 30376 ........                              43
MAP
IBRD 19544
6157D



1M1 ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MNRIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Credit and Proiect SumparE
Borrover:                     Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Beneficiary:                  Highway Authority (HA)
Amount:                       US$10.0 million (SDR 8.6 m. at April 30, 1986)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms
Project Obj#ectives
and Description:
The objectives of the project are to (a)
facilitate substitution of domestic oil for
imported products by permitting the transport
of white products from a refinery at the oil
field to domestic markets; (b) facilitate the
further development of the oil fields; (c)
provide road access and facilitate the
movement of agricultural inputs and the
marketing of agricultural products to the
Wadi As Sudd area (population 78,000), which
will be irrigated b? a neo dam; and (d)
increase the capability of RA to design road
works.
The project would consist of the construction
to paved standard of the Msrib-Safir road
(62.5 ki). The road would connect the paved
road network at Marib with the oil field and
refinery at Safir, and would also serve an
agricultural area for the first 32 km.
Benefits and Risks
The primary project benefits would be to help reduce expenditures
for the importation of petroleum products and to reduce the cost of
transporting agricultural inputs and products. Institutional benefits
would include increasing the ability of KA to design road works. There are
no unusual project risks, but allowance has been made in project
implementation for delays in the construction component.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs (Construction    Foreign   Local   Taxes    Total
of the Marib-Safir Road):               -U    US$illion Equivalent-
1. First Phase
Construction                      5.2      4.3      1.3      10.8
-      Supervision                        0.2      0.1     -          0.3
Physical Contingencies            0.3      0.2     0.1        0.6
Subtotal                      5.7      4.6      1.4      11.7
2. Second Phase
Construction                      6.0      3.4      1.3      10.7
Supervision                       0.6      0.1      -         0.7
Physical Contingencies            0.3      0.1      0.1       0.5
Price Contingencies *             1.4      0.9      0.3       2.6
Subtotal                       8.3      4.5      1.7      14.5
Total - Both Phases                   14.0       9.1     3.1      26.2
Total Project (Second Phase)           8.3       4.5     1.7      14.5
US$ Million
Financing Plan                             Equivalent       Percent
Government                                   4.5          31
Association Credit                          10.0          69
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Millione)
IDA
Fiscal Year        FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Annual              1.0    2.0    3.0    4.0
Cumulative          1.0    3.0    6.0   10.0
Economic Rate of Return - 131, not including important unquantified benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 6108-YAR dated May 28, 1986.
* Price escalation for local costs estimated at 101 p.a. through 1990.
Price escalation for foreign costs estimated as 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% p.a.
in 1987 and 1988, 7.02 in 1989 and 7.12 in 1990.



I. TH. TRA4NSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) occupies an area of about 195,000
km2 of largely mountainous terrain in the southwest corner of the Arabian
peninsula. There are three distinct geographic regions, the arid coastal
plain (the Tihams), the rugged central and southern highlands rising to
about 2,500 m where the bulk of population lives, and the eastern plateau.
Only about eight percent of the land is arable. mainly in the central and
southern highlands where rainfall is highest, but also in the Wadis of the
eastern plateau, the Tihama, and in pockets of terraced mountain slopes
throughout the central highlands. Most of the estimated 8.5 million popu-
lation is therefore widely dispersed. As a consequence of this setting,
both the demand for transport and the cost of providing transport services
are high.
1.02     Until about 1960, YAR lacked a modern transport system.  Primitive
tracks were the only means of land transport, port facilities were limited
to the ancient port of Mocha, and there was no air service within the
country. Efforts to modernize transportation began slowly in the 1960s,
and accelerated following the end of the civil war in 1972 because the new
regime was anxious to usher the country into the modern world through
comprehensive economic development. Progress to date in developing the
transport system has been impressive (see map).
1.03     The fast pace of economic development in neighboring oil-rich
countries provided employment opportunities for Yemeni workers and absorbed
about 30 percent of the Yemeni work force. The resulting increases in
worker remittances fueled an economic boom in YAR, particularly in trans
port. Various factors contributed to this upsurge in transport demand: (i)
financial support from the migrant labor force to build transport links to
their villages; (ii) increasing migration of rural people to the cities
while maintaining close ties to their villages; (iii) structural changes in
the pattern and level of consumption requiring much larger imports; and
(iv) an ambitious development program spurring construction activities in
various sectors on a massive scale. Traffic on all modes grew at unprece-
dented levels during the 1970's, but has recently declined to more normal
levels due to a decline in workers remittances caused by the recession in
the Gulf states and a general slowdown in economic activity:



Table 1.1: Traffic Growth Rates
Representative Tirafic Growth Rates (p P.a.)
1971-76     1976-80    1980-84
1.  Road Traffic 1/                   20           27         13
2. Port Traffic (imorts
Plus Esaorts)                     14           29          7
3. Air TramnDort ?asseugers
at 5ana'aAirort                   26 21        11          5
1/ Based on traffic at selected counting stations on main highways.
1 1974-76
B. The Oil Discovery
1.04     YAR had no known energy sources until recently.  In July 1984, the
oil exploration activities by the Yemen Runt Oil Company (Y1CC) in the
Narib basin (Safir) revealed the presence of oil with asociated gas. A
nmber of international oil companies (Exxon, Total and British Petroleum
Company) have been attracted by the YROC discovery and the Government has
recemtly negotiated with them for exploration blocks in other areas, both
on and offshore.
l.GS     TROC has identified about 17 potential hydrocarbon bearing struc--
t-rea in the Marib basin. Only three of the structures have been drilled,
resulting in one oil discovery and two gas discoveries. The size of the
oil reserves has not been officially revealed by Y%OC. but there are
Indications that exploitable reserves are substantial in relation to YAR's
e_rgy needs.  The Government declared the oil discovery commercial in
December 1985, stating that reserves discovered so far totalled 400 million
barrels of oil. There are various unofficial estimates of possible produc-
tion rates for this oil. ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 bpd.
1.06     TAR currently imports about 1.1 million tons p.a. of refined
petrolem products to meet domestic needs:



-3-
Table 1.2:  Petroleum Imports In 1985 (thousands of metric tons)
Bas oilldiesel                            522.3
Fuel oil                                  491.2
Gasoline                                  316.5 *
Kerosene                                    77.8
Liqgid Propane Gas (LPG)                   52.0
Aviation turbine kerosene                  49.2
1,509.0
*   Includes official and private imports.  Does not include unofficial
imports currently estimated at about 50,000 tons p.a.
Domestic production of crude oil is expected to be at least three times
domestic consumption. The Government therefore plans to export crude oil.
1.07     The exploration concession is governed by the terms of the produc-
tion sharing agreement between the Government of YAR and the YROC which was
signed in 1981. The development of the Alif field at Safir is determined
by a participation agreement, with 75.5S owned by YEOC and 24.52 owned by a
consortium of four Korean companies. In December 1985, 49% of YEOCs
Interest in YAR were sold to Exxon. This joint venture will be responsible
for development of drilling, and for the construction of a 400 km crude oil
pipeline from the oil fields to the coast near Salif with a deep water
w-ine terdmial The 27" diameter pipeline has been designed by consul-
tants Wilbros-Butler Engineering (UK), and the Government expects that it
will be completed as early as March 1988.
1.08     YAR has also agreed with Y8OC to build a 10,000 barrels per day
(bbd) "hydroskimiing" refinery at the oil field in Safir to produce LPG,
gasoline, diesel, and fuel oil for the domestic market. Temporary produc-
tion facilities will be provided to supply crude oil to the refinery. The
refinery and related facilities are under construction and initial opera-
tions began in April 1986. The refinery will supply about 382 of the
country's consumption of refined products (at 1984 consumption levels).
Thi& will improve the country's balance of payments by allowing field
production to advance by approximately two years, and thereby avoiding the
higher cost of importing refined products. The refinery and gathering
system were partly financed by the International Finance Corporation
(Investment Loan 11-TAR, $9.0 million, 1985).
1.09     The Government is also considering providing additional refining
capacity. This could be accomplished by expanding the Safir facility, or
by building a secontd refinery near Sana'a (the main consumption center) or
near Salif (the crude oil export marine terminal). This decision should be
based on an economic evaluation, since there is a new refinery presently



being constructed near Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, and there is excess refinery
capacity at Aden in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The
Association, by carrying out an Energy Investment Options Study, is assist-
ing the Government to define its refinery strategy, and also to assess the
overall impact of the oil discovery in the economy and to determine the
investment options and alternatives in the energy and other relevant
setsora.
Li10     Gas has also been discovered in the Safir area.  If re-injection
is not necessary, gas production could total roughly 150 million cubic feet
(3,540 toe) per day. The Government has various options for utilizing this
gas, including substituting gas for fuel oil for domestic power or cement
production, producing fertilizer based on gas feedstock, or exporting gas.
Ift particular, the Government could construct a new power generator at
Safir, or build a gas pipeline to power plants on the coast, or to other
dcmestic usars.  The refinery and the o4; fields will also produce LPG,
which could be bottled for household rne or used for other purposes. The
Association is also assisting the G',vernment to assess its gas utilization
options as part of the Energy Investment Options Study (para. 1.09).
C. The rransport System
1.11     YAR has built up from almost nothing (para. 2.01) the framework of
a modern transport system through concentrated efforts during the last
twenty years. The system now consists of about 3,250 km of main roada
(Table 2.1), a modern sea port at Hodeidah and secondary ports at Salif and
Mocha, and three international airports. YAR has also made a good begin-
ning at building up the institutional framework to administer and maintain
the system. However, only the initial building blocks are in place and a
lot more needs to be done to further expand transport capacity, particu-
larly the road network, and to build and strengthen institutions. Several
of the country's interior areas, even fertile and densely inhabited areas
such as the Wadi As Sudd to be served by the proposed project, still lack
road access. Current Government policy and planning emphasize the need to
improve access to interior areas, while it continues to assign importance
to the need for better maintaining and improving other elements of the
transport system.
Highways
1.12     The highway system is discussed in Chapter II.
Ports and ShipDina
1.13     Port congestion, with ships waiting for up to three months before
berthing at Hodeidah, was a major problem faced by YAK in the late 1970's.
Ocean freight charges to YAR more than doubled during this period. The
Government then took a number of steps to increase capacity, assisted by
the Association and other donors, so that port capacity has not been a
significant problem since 1980.



1.14     Of YAR's three main ports (Hodeidah, Mocha and Salif), Hodeidah is
located almost centrally on the coastline and is the main port, handling
about 80 percent of general cargo traffie. Under the Port Development
Project (Cr. 114-YAR), the approach channel of Hodeidab was widened and the
port dredged to a general depth of 9.2 meters, so that the port now
receives fully loaded ships of about 22,000 deadweight tons (dwt). Three
new berths and other facilities, including a container berth, were also
constructed and the existing berths rehabilitated. The mooring berth for
handling petroleum products was also reconstructed, and can now accommodate
tankers up to 15,000 dwt. Under the Grain Storage and processing Project
financed by IDA (Cr. 636-YAR), the Hodeidah port also received a mechanized
installation for unloading bulk food grains and a grain silo of about
20,000-ton capacity. The Government has recently called tenders for the
construction of a second container berth at Hodeidah to be financed by
Japan. YAR is expected to have sufficient port capacity for several years
following completion of the second container berth.
1.15     The small port of Mocha was also improved in the 1970's and now
has a finger pier with two berths of 8 m water depth and support facil-
ities. Mocha is well sited to serve the prosperous southern highland
governorates of Taiz and Ibb; however, for containerized and other special-
ized cargo destined for these areas, Hodeidah. with its superior facil-
ities, still retains a competitive advantage.
1.16     Salif has a natural deep-water harbor with a modern pier to handle
salt. It has no general cargo or other port facilities. Salif was used to
unload some general cargo ships during the period of port congestion in the
1970's, though the handling fac4lities were meager and the road link to the
port poor. In 1980, a private firm constructed a floating jetty and silo
for mechanized discharge of cement at Salif. The Government is also con-
sidering constructing a single buoy mooring at the terminal of the proposed
crude oil pipeline close to Salif.
1.17     The Ports of Hodeidah and Mocha are managed by the Yemen Ports and
Marine Affairs Corporation (PHAC), and Salif by the Yemen Salt Export
Corporation. These organizations are reasonably efficient. During 1984,
the three ports together handled about 3.1 million tons of dry cargo (about
2.2 million tons in Hodeidah, 0.6 million tons in Mocha and 0.3 million
tons in Salif), and 0.9 million tons of bulk petroleum products. General
cargo traffic has been growing about 7.0% p.a. during the last four years.
YAR imported about 364,000 tons of goods in containers in 1984, almost all
through Bodeidah. Container traffic has doubled during the last three
years.
1.18     The Government established the Yemen Sea Transport Company, a
shipping company, under a joint venture agreement with the Government of
PDRY. However, the company never operated any vessels, and the venture was
recently abandoned in part because YAR and PDRY do not have sufficient
traffic to made a shipping company profitable.



-6-
Civil Aviation
1.19     TAR has invested substantially in its airport infrastructure since
the revolution. The airports at Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah n*ow provide
facilities for both international and domestic air traffic, while seven
smaller airports serve regional needs. Sanaa's main runway is currently
being extended to 3,800 a to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft, and a new
terminal building was recently completed.  The runwaya at taiz and RHdeidah
have now been extended to 3,000 m, and a new terminal building at Hodeidah
is under construction. The Sana'a airport handled a total of 12,750
flights (arrivals and departures), excluding military traffic. in 1984.
About 473,000 passengers moved through the airport in 1984, three-quarters
of whom were international passengers. Passenger traffic has only grown
about 5% p.a. since 1980, and is not expected to grow significantly in the
near future due in part to the decline in foreign remittances.
1.20     The United Nations, through its International Civil Aviation
Organization and United Nations Development Program, continues to provide
valuable tecknical as8istance covering a variety of areas to assist TAR's
Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority (CAMA), the autonomous authority
now in charge of civil aviation maitters including airports and meteorolog-
ical installations.
1.21     The national airline, YEMENIA, is a profitable joint venture of
the Governments of YAR and Saudi Arabia. It operates four Boeing 727-200's
and one Boeing 727-300 primarily in international service, and two Dash
DHC-7's in domestic service. The company has about 1,500 employees.
TEMENIA carried 456,000 passengers in 1984, at an average aircraft load
factor of 558.
D. Transport Organization, Planning and Policy
Transport Organization
1.22     A number of organizations are involved in transport in YAR.  The
Minister of Public Works is the Chairman of the semi-autonomous Highway
Authority (HA), which is responsible for the technical planning, design,
ccnstruction and maintenance of the main road infrastructure system. In
addition, he is the Chairman of the semi-autonomous PMAC. The Central
Planning Organization (CPO) is responsible for national economic planning
and coordinating investment decisions, including those in the transport
sector.  The Ministry of Communications and Transport (NCT) controls CAZA,
YEMENIA and the land transport companies. Local Development Associations
(LDAs), which are not responsible to any Ministry, build low-cost rural
roads with their own funds as well as with local Government financing. The
Ministry of Interior controls the traffic police.
1.23     MCT has recently formed a General Secretariat for Transport
Affairs (GSTA) under a Deputy Minister. This nascent agency lacks qual-
ified staff and as a result, the operatius agencies for road transport,
airports and civil aviation, still operate with little accountability to



GSTA. To improve the situation, the Government undertook organizational
and policy studies under the Association-financed Fourth Highway Project
(Cr. 1267-YAR) which define the role and identify the technical assistance
required by GSTA. The Government is presently considering adopting the
recommendations of this study for strengthening/reorganizing GSTA.
Road Transport Organization
1.24     The Government has established two public-sector road transport
companies: (a) the General Transport Corporation (GTC) established in 1982
with YR 100 million capital (51 percent of which is owned by YAR Government
and the reminder by private investors), which provides inter-city and
in-city bus services; and (b) the Yemen General Transport Corporation
(YGTC), with a capital of YR 50 million, jointly owned by YAR and PDRY,
which operates a fleet of 3 buses and 10 trucks between the two countries.
The GTC owns a modern fleet of 66 buses, and operates 52 inter-city bus
services daily; it plans to start in-city bus services in Sana'a, Hodeidah
and Tais, but these are not yet operational.
1.25     Apart from the above Public sector activities, road transport is
essentially private, with operators subject to the rules of drivers' asso-
ciations. The drivers' associations function as cartels which maximize the
size of their membership. Drivers are required to register for the route
they wish to operate on, and to wait for their turn at the associations'
freight and passenger stations which exist in all major towns. Contracting
transport from sources other than the association offices is not permitted,
but entry into the industry is free and many migrant Yemenis, returning
with capital to invest in a small business, opt to become transport oper-
ators. As a result, the size of the fleet is large, waiting time at the
turn offices long, vehicle utilization low, and transport costs are high.
Tariffs which are proposed by the associations and normally approved by the
Government without change, reflect these high costs, although they vary
from route to route depending on road conditions, likelihood of a backhaul,
size of shipments and other factors. Determining the proper role of the
drivers' association is the principal issue that Government must address if
costs and prices are to be brought down. Government is aware of this
problem, and recommendations were made as part of the GSTA study under the
Fourth Highway Project. The strengthening/reorganization of GSTA, will
provide the Government with an effective way to interact with private
operators (para. 1.23).
Transport Planning
1.26     Transport planning is done predominantly with the help of outside
consultants engaged by sub-sectoral agencies, with decision making on
investment allocation and project selection being done by the project
sub-sector agencies (such as the PMAC, HA and CAMA), and by concerned min-
istries, coordinated by tae CPO. CPO is responsible for national economic
planning and for coordinating economic decisions for all sectors. Like
other Government agencies, it is seriously short of professional staff and
its involvement in transport has been in less depth than in other sectors,



- 8 -
leaving transport planning almost entirely to the individual modes. For
the preparation of the transport part of the Second Plan (1982-86), the CPO
made use of consultants to collate the contributions of the various agen-
cies. The key t improving transport-sector planning is to strengthen
GSTA, but this will take time (para. 1.23). In the meantime, CPO is being
assisted in the preparation of the Third Plan (1987-91) with experts
financed by the Kuwait Fund, UNDP, and the Association.
Transport Policy
1.27     The objectives of the transport sector are reflected in the coun-
try's Five-Year Plans. The policy objectives of the First Plan (1977-81)
were stated in only general terms, but emphasized the role of transport and
the need to build up a reasonable infrastructural base to integrate the
country, to mobilize existing domestic resources for development, to reduce
YAR's isolation, and in general to cater for the growing mobility of people
and exchange of goods. The objectives of the ongoing Second Plan (1982-86)
are to foster the productive base of the economy with priorities given to
agriculture, minerals, and manpower development. Transport and communi-
cation, however, retain an important supporting role, accounting for 222 of
proposed public investments. Transport sector objectives include construc-
ting new main roads, maintaining existing assets, and developing secondary
roads to serve the country's interior areas better. The Second Plan also
emphasizes investments and other measures to reduce the cost of passenger
and freight transport so as to promote better utilization of the country's
resources. The Association agrees with the general priorities and strategy
of the Second Plan. The Third Plan (1987-91) is expected to emphasize the
same objectives as the Second Plan, in addition to providing sufficient
transport infrastructure to accommodate the oil discovery.
1.28     Actual and planned public investments in the transport sector are
as follows:
Table 1.3: Transport Sector Investments, 1977-86
First Plan       Second Plan (1982-86)
(1977-81)                      1982-84
Transport Sector             Actual          Planned  '    Actual
- -  YR Millions       --
Roads                        2,223           2,682 2'        799
Road Transport                  20               25           11
Ports                          318             200            65
Airports                       711             473           576 5"
Yemenia Airways                558              261            n.a.
Total                     3,830           3,641
lt 1981 prices.
21 Includes feeder roads for agricultural projects, and city streets.
3/ 1982 and 1983



- 9 -
Actual investments in the transport sector have declined during recent
years due primarily to the decline in foreign assistance caused in part by
the recession in the Gulf States, and as well as to the fall off in workers
remittances which resulted in a decline in Government revenues. In 1983,
the Association assisted the Government to reconsider priorities for the
Second Plan when it became evident that investment objectives would not be
met.
Cost Recovery
1.29     Government fiscal policies aim at recovering the full cost of pub-
lic transport services, except in special circumstances where it considers
that a subsidy is justified on social grounds. Road users contribute to
the general tax revenue through import duties and excise taxes on fuel,
import duties on vehicles and spares, and annual vehicle taxes and license
fees. Petroleum products were priced on a cost plus basis until 1984.
Since then, the Government has not increased the price of all petroleum
products sufficiently to offset changes in the exchange rate, in spite of
recent declines in the cost of petroleum. As of February 1986, gasoline
was priced at YR 3.00/liter, which exceeded the economic cost of production
by about 53 percent (Annex 1). Diesel fuel, however, was priced at YR
2.00/liter, which was about 22 percent below its economic cost. The Energy
Investment Options Study, currently under preparation by the Association,
will include reconuendations on energy pricing (para. 1.09).
1.30     Road user revenues exceed what the Government spends on road main-
tenance and construction. The Government spent about YR 527.7 million on
roads in 1984, which was a reasonably typical year, at the same time that
it took in about YR 688.6 million in revenues from road user taxes
(Annex 2). The current subsidy of diesel fuel (para. 1.29) does not change
this relationship significantly since fuel taxes only accounted for 11 of
road user revenues in 1984. The structure of road user taxes, however,
requires some improvement. First, the incidence of road user charges on
particular user categories favors heavy trucks, whereas heavy trucks cause
most of the damage to roads (road damage generally increases with the
fourth power of axle weight). For example, diesel trucks pay almost no net
fuel tax at present and all trucks are taxed at a fixed rate per ton of
carrying capacity, which favors heavy vehicles. Second, vehicle owners who
use unofficially imported fuel are not paying any taxes. In the past, the
Government has considered increasing the price of diesel fuel, but felt
this could lead to a further increase in road tariffs, adversely affect the
agricultural sector, and encourage unofficial imports. In addition to the
Energy Investment Options Study (para. 1.29), a road user charges study is
being carried out as part of the Highway Master Plan Study under the Third
Highway Project to provide recommendations in this area. The Government
expects to adopt policy reforms based on this study by end-1987. The
eevenues of both public road transport corporations, GTC and YGTC (para.
1.24), cover their operating costs including depreciation.
1.31     PMAC collects various charges from port users which are intended
to cover the cost of port operations. Tariffs were increased in 1977 and



- 10 -
again in 1982, to roughly double their former levels. Port charges are now
at the same general level as other Red Sea ports with which YAR ports
compete.
1.32     The Government invested intensively in the development of the
Sana'a, Taiz, and Hodeidah airports during the last ten years. Airport
user charges are not sufficient to cover current expenditures, and make no
contribution to the capital budget. Airport operating costs are also
likely to increase rapidly during the coming decade, as airport infra-
structure requires more maintenance and is further expanded. As agreed
under the Fourth Highway Project, CAMA carried out a comparative study of
airport user charges and made recoumendations: Their recommended level of
tariffs would enable the airports to cover operating expenses, including
depreciation. CAMA's recommendations are currently under review by the
Government.
E. Previous IDA Proiects
1.33     IDA has actively assisted YAR since 1972 to develop its basic
transport system and institutions. The Government has successfully imple-
mented six projects, financed by $56.0 million equivalent in IDA credits,
and has maintained a constructive dialogue with IDA on sector policies
which have resulted in significant improvements. In highways, HA was
established and strengthened, a training school was established and suc-
cessfully operated in Taiz, a road maintenance program was implemented,
axle-loads were limited, accounting improved, and economic project evalu-
ation introduced. In ports, cargo handling was improved, cost accounting
introduced, tariffs increased, and an engineering department established.
Initial steps were also taken to improve the administration of other modes.
1.34     IDA's first involvement in YAR was the First Highway Project (Cr.
315-YAR, FY73), which was co-financed with the Kuwait Fund. The project
emphasized technical assistance for establishing KA, and provided for feas-
ibility and engineering studies for priority roads, construction of the
Taiz-Turba road, and the purchase of road equipment. The Second Highway
Project (Cr. 558-YAR, FY75), also co-financed with the Kuwait Fund,
financed the continuation of technical assistance to HA, and the construc-
tion of the Tais-Al Mafraq road. The audit report for these first two
highway projects acknowledged that they improved many aspects of highway
operations in YAR despite shortages of staff and the small base upon which
they could build initially. In particular, they assisted in: (a) separ-
ating out road construction from other public works; (b) setting up and
improving the management structure of HA; (c) building up the road con-
struction and maintenance capability in HA; (d) initiating an equipment
pool; (e) introducing axtle load controls; and (f) establishing a basic
accounting system.
1.35     The Third Highway Project (Cr. 794-YAR, FY78), co-financed with
the OPEC Fund. financed additional technical assistance for HA, focused
more closely on the road maintenance problem by including equipment for
road maintenance, mechanical workshops and maintenance depots; training and
fellowships; vehicle weighing stations; 3 km of pavement overlay; and



- II -
preparation of a Highway Master Plan. The project included about 600
man-moths of technical assistance to HA to fill 18 in-line senior tech-
nical and professional posts at HA. The project also included the upgrad-
ing, equipping and staffing of a training school to train 600 maintenance
personnel over three years. The Highway Master Plan Study financed under
the project is addressing two key issues: determining investment prior-
ities in the face of budgetary and institutional constraints, and recom-
mending steps to improve the system of road user taxes. A national axle
loading policy has been established with technical assistance provided
under the project. Project implementation, although two years delayed, has
been satisfactory. The Credit was closed on December,31, 1985.
1.36     The Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1267-YAR, FY82), co-financed by
the Arab Fund, provides for strengthening the Taiz-Al Mafraq road, and also
includes studies and technical assistance and training to improve transport
sector organization and road operation. Progress is satisfactory, and the
road works were completed at end-1984.
1.37     The Fifth Highway Project (Cr. 1413-YAR, FY83) provided for the
construction to paved standard of the Ibb-Al Udayn road, plus a two year
continuation of the technical assistance and training component begun under
the Third Project. Project implementation started in mid-1985 after a
one-year delay.
1.38     The Port Development Project (Cr. 714-YAR, FY77), co-financed with
the Kuwait Fund, included dredging, berth construction, and equipment for
the port of Hodeidah; as well as improvements at Mocha and technical
assistance to PMAC to increase the efficiency of port operations and to
improve financial management and accounting. It was successfully completed
in March 1983. The audit report for the project noted that the improve-
ments were timely and enabled the port of Hodeidah to cope with extreme
traffic congestion. It is recalled that PMAC, now an efficient organi-
zation, was a relatively new organization when the project was appraised in
1976. That project contributed to establishing a badly needed engineering
department, and to improving cargo handling, cost accounting, statistics,
and tariffs.
1.39     A Transport Sector Memorandum (4990-YAR) published in November
1985 serves as a vehicle for continuing our dialogue with the Government.
It discusses YAR accomplishments in developing its transport system and
focuses on the priority areas for future work. It emphasizes the need for
improving the administration of the transport system and maintenance/reha-
bilitation of existing roads.  It also recommends assessing when future
port expansion will be required because traffic may increase further with
the commercialization of oil.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01     In 1962, only one paved inter-urban road existed in YAR, linking
the major Red Sea port of Hodeidah with the capital Sana'a (226 km.). The



- 12 -
country has made an all-out effort to build up its road network since then,
and results have been impressive. Between 1962 and 1970, the YAR main road
network grew to a total length of about 700 km. Since then, the rate of
growth of the main road network accelerated and by 1985 it reached about
3,250 km., including 2150 km. of paved roads (see Map).
Table 2.1: Growth of the Main Road Network
Year             Paved Roads             Unpaved Roads              Total
… - - - - - -  -…Length (kma.)- - - - - 
1970                  436                      266                    702
1971                  684                      609                  1,293
1980                1,472                      798                  2,270
1981                1,604                      876                  2,480
1982                1,810                    1,096                  2,906
1983                1,985                      952                  2,937
1984                2,048                      974                  3,022
1985                2,144                    1,104                  3,248
Paved roads now link Sana'a, the capital, with Hodeidah (the main port and
second largest city), Tais, and Ibb, and with the networks of Saudi Arabia
and PDRY. The 1,100 km. of unpaved roads mainly serve the most fertile
agricultural regions of the country: Tihama, a flat 50-70 km. wide coastal
strip, and those regions around Tais and Ibb in the Western Highlands.
Annex 3 gives an inventory of the existing main road network. RA is
responsible for the improvet and maintenance of this network, which
excludes local roads built by the LDAs.
2.02     The growth of the local road network has been even more spectac-
ular. From an estimated 6,500 km. in 1975, the local network has grown to
around 30,000 km in 1985. Most of these roads were built by the LDAs.
There are now about 215 LDAs, compared with 28 in 1972. Their budget
consists mainly of voluntary direct contributions from local people. The
LDAs have been active in promoting and building all kinds of public works
projects in their respective areas, with the provision of access to com-
muities with more than 100 people ranking high in their priorities. These
roads or tracks are designed to low standard. Many of them are barely of
bulldozer width and are negotiable only by four-wheel drive vehicles. How-
ever, they provide the only road connection to remote areas and constitute
a vital feeder road system to the main network.
2.03     The main road network is far from complete, since a-number of
journeys involve very circuitous routes in order to avoid using low stan-
dard tracks which are generally impassable to trucks. The density of the
road network is still low (about 17 km. per 1,000 km2), but would compare
well with other countries at a similar stage of development if the LDA
roads could be considered part of the network, (153 km per 1,000 km2).
Because the main road system is not developed, LDA roads have assumed the
functions of secondary roads in many areas.



- 13 -
B.  Traffic
2.04     Accurate information on vehicle ownership in YAR is not readily
available. The only official information concerns the number of new
vehicle registrations in each governorate after 1978. Official infor-
mation, therefore, excludes a substantial number of vehicles which are not
registered, but includes vehicles which are now off the road. The Highway
Master Plan study, financed under the Third Highway Project, estimated that
the fleet totaled 236,150 vehicles at the end of 1983, of which 172,100 or
73 percent are registered. This implies a fleet of 27 vehicles per 1,000
inhabitants, which compares favorably with other countries at similar
stages of development. There is also a shortage of data for estimating the
growth of road traffic. The estimation of traffic growth based on the
consumption of petroleum products is not reliable because an unknown but
significant part of petroleum products come by road from Saudi -Arabia, and
are not covered by the official statistics (para. 1.06), and also because
petroleum products are consumed by other sectors (para. 1.30).
2.05     HA's Planning and Traffic Division has undertaken a program of
traffic counts since 1976, but with several interruptions due to lack of
staff and some inconsistencies following changes of personnel and of survey
stations. Data from few selected stations indicate high rates of traffic
growth:  27 percent p.a. between 1976-80, reflecting rapid growth of the
economy and the structural changes due to additional transport demand and
new road construction, followed by a 13 percent p.a. between 1980-84,
reflecting a slower rate of economic growth due to a reduction of worker
remittances, and also a wider traffic base.  Traffic on main roads ranges
between 2,000 and 5,000 v.p.d. and in many secondary roads may reach as
much as 2,000 v.p.d. Annual traffic growth rates are likely to stabilize
around 10 percent in the period 1986-1990. Since 1985, the Planning and
Traffic Division has been strengthened with new staff and the purchase of
additional traffic counters.
2.06     The design axle-load was increased from 8 to 13-tons per single
axle in 1980. Studies by consultants financed by IDA found that this was
the load which minimized the total cost of transport, i.e., the cost of
operating the transport fleet plus the cost of construction/maintenance of
the roads. Recent axle-luad surveys indicate that as many as 40 percent of
the trucks are overloaded, which has resulted in considerable road deterio-
ration. Three vehicle weighing stations with computerized equipment were
built at Hodeidah, .4ocha and Harad to monitor and control overloading.
Axle-load legislati=n was prepared under the Third Highway Project and
approved by the Parliament in November 1985. Axle-loads are already being
controlled with full enforcement expected by mid-1986. HA is also
strengthening about 1000 km of paved roads to handle heavier vehicles.
C. Administration
2.07     HA c'se established in 1972 witb assistance under the First Highway
Project. HA is a semi-autonomous Government agency with its own capital,
budget, income and salary scales. It is controlled by a Board of Directors



- 14 -
and chaired by the Minister of Public Works. Details of its organization
are given in Chart 1. NA employs about 40 engineers and 2,100 workers. HA
is charged with the technical planning, design and maintenance of main
roads, which are financed at cost from the Government budget, as well as
i-ith road construction for central Government and local authorities on a
contractual basis. RA's headquarters in Sana'a provide central services
for administration, planning and design. Construction and maintenance
operations are carried out tbrough its five regional offices in Sana'a,
Ibb, Taiz, Rodeidah and Saadah. All road maintenance operations are per-
formed by RA using its own labor and equipment (para. 2.20).
2.08     HA-is chronically short of qualified staff at many levels.  The
Third and Fifth Highway Projects provide for technical assistance (TA) to
alleviate this shortfall. The recruitment of experts and their Yemeni
counterparts was not fully satisfactory in the past because of the high
turnover of appointees. However, this improved considerably following a
recent increase in salaries and benefits. Since 1984, a group of experts
from the Indian civil service plus several from Sudan and the Philippines
have filled the 18 positions under the TA component of the Third and Fifth
Highway Projects. The TA program is now proceeding satisfactority, and
will enable HA to fulfill most of its tasks in the short term. For the
longer term, an increasing number of counterparts should be able to take
over, although additional TA will still be required at higher managerial
levels.
2.09     Construction and maintenance of the local road network is carried
out by the respective LDAs, using their own staff and equipment. The LDAs
budget derive from contributions from several sources including direct
contributions from local emigrants and residents, and a portion of the
Zaqat, a one percent tax levied on agricultural production. CYDA, the LDAs
central organization, maintains technical staff to provide advice, and also
provides additional equipment if required by the LWAs. The Highway Master
Plan under the Third Highway Project recommends that the most important LDA
roads be upgraded and included in the national network administered by RA.
It also recomends steps to improve the coordination between HA and CYDA,
as well as steps to improve CYDAs technical capability. These recommen-
dations are being implemented satisfactorily following HA's annual budget
increases.
D. Planning
2.10     Road investment planning is carried out on the basis of traffic
counts, a review of regional development needs, and feasibility studies for
major investments particularly those which are funden externally.  During
the identification of IDA's First Righway Project, consultants prepared a
road development program for 1972-79 covering about 1,400 km. This docu-
ment was the basis for expanding the network in the 1970s. Many of the
proposed improvements were included under the Government's Three-Year
Development Plan (1974-76) and the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81). Pro-
posals for the Second Five-ear Plan (1982-86) were prepared under the
Third Highway project with the assistance of expatriate experts. Finally



- 15 -
in 1984, still under the Third Highway Project, HA appointed consultants to
prepare a Highway Master Plan Study covering the period up to 1996. The
draft final report was submitted in April, 1986 and is currently under
review by the Government. It establishes investment priorities based on a
compre- hensive review of regional activity and detailed traffic
forecasts. It also proposes improvements in management and policy, road
design standards, maintenance policy, roads user charges, and data
collection. The study also examines and advises on the role of LDAs, and
proposes new axle-load legislation which was recently approved by the
Parliament (para. 2.06). The Government expects to be able to adopt any
necessary policy reforms based on study recommendations by end-1987.
2.11     The First Plan proposed a total investment of YR 3.1 (US$0.7)
billion for main road construction, of which YR 2.0 (US$0.4) billion was
classified as first priority. Actual expenditures reached only YR 1.4
(US$0.3) billion. Seven hundred twenty six kilometers of main roads were
completed or started, including two connections to PDRY (financed by the
Arab Fund and Saudi Fund), three connections to Saudi Arabia (one finenced
by Abu Dhabi and two by the Saudi Fund) and a link to Mocha Port financed
by Libya. Many of the proposed projects, including 2,300 km. of secondary
roads, were delayed because of a lack of financing.
2.12     The Second Plan allocates YR 2.7 (US$0.5) billion of public in-
vestment to the road sector (Table 1.3): 40 percent for road maintenance
and improvements, 34 percent for the new roads, 18 percent for rural roads
of integrated rural development projects and LDAs, and 8 percent for com-
pletion of ongoing construction projects. The Second Plan also suffered
from shortage of resources and was trimmed down with the assistance of the
Association in 1983. Preparation of the Third Five-Year Investment Plan
(1987-91) is expected to take place in 1986. Road investments will be
based on the recouendations of the Highway Master Plan Study which empha-
sizes adequate conservation (maintenance) of existing roads. Construction
of new roads will have second priority because of the urgency of main-
tenance and an expected decrease in foreign aid.
E. Financing
2.13     About 701 of the cost of constructing YAR's main road network was
financed from external sources such as the Federal Republic of Germany,
Iraq, Libya, People's Republic of China, Saudi Arabia, the United States,
the USSR, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund, and the Association. External
financing is decreasing, in part because of a fall off in economic activity
in the Gulf states. All functions and operations related to roads, except
construction, are financed by the Government and executed at cost by HA
(para. 2.07). Construction is executed by HA on a contractual basis, but
this activity is declining because HA considers that private contractors
are generally more effective and flexible .
F. Engineering
2.14     Up to 1980, all engineering designs had to be prepared by foreign
consultants.  iA's Design Division was strengthened under the Third Highway



- 16 -
Project beginning in 1980. Presently, HA carries out the design of all
projects with the exception of some large internationally financed projects
which are designed out by foreign consultants.  HA also carries out all
soil and material tests in its own soils laboratory. This laboratory is
well staffed with Yemenis, and was recently re-equipped, partly with IDA
financing.
2.15     The YAR has not yet developed a comprehensive set of highway
design standards.  In the past, various consultants employed their own
national systems, resulting in a lack of uniformity in the road network.
The Highway Master Plan recommends a three tier road network classification
based on function and type of terrain (para. 2.10). It also recommends the
adoption of uniform road design standards based on the United States AASHTO
system, adjusted to the special conditions of YAR. Both proposals have
been discussed and agreed with the Association and are being considered by
HA for final approval. Following this decision, the Highway Master Plan
consultants will provide a manual of design standards for the three cate-
gories of roads, which will assure uniformity of design for all HA roads in
the future. The Highway Master Plan also provides recommendations on
design standards for LDA roads.
G. Construction
2.16     HA is responsible for all road construction (new construction and
rehabilitation) by contracting or by force account, except for LDA roads.
Contracts for road projects financed by foreign assistance follow the
guidelines of the agencies involved. Contracting of large projects is
usually carried out by foreign contractors. Other projects are carried out
by HA force account with the help of domestic contractors. In both cases
the quality of the final output is high.
2.17     HA's Construction Division is well organized and equipped, and
adequately staffed with Yemeni and expatriate experts. As discussed, most
of the large civil works are carried out by foreign contractors, but when
no responsive bids are received, HA acts as a contractor of last resort and
carries out the work. The IDA financed Tais-Turba road under the First
Highway Project and the Saudi Arabia financed Yarim-Qataba road were both
constructed in this way when no responsive bids were received. Presently,
HA is satisfactorily constructing the first phase (sub-base) of the
Marib-Safir road because the works needed to be completed quickly in order
to carry the products of the new refinery. HA will also construct by force
account the second phase (asphalt standard) of this road, to be financed
under the proposed credit, because of the very special circumstances of
this case (para. 3.09)3. In these cases, HA undertakes the works by force
account, but to avoid a potential conflict of interest the supervising con-
sultants are retained by CPO. HA's direct involvement in road construction
was particularly important before 1983 because contractors bids were high
since they were hedging against the real or perceived risks of cumbersome
administrative procedures, delayed payments, political unrest and other
uncertainties. However, recent improvements in YARX coupied with a slowdown
in contracting activity in the Gulf States has resulted in lower prices.



- 17 -
HA, following IDA's advice, is now reducing its construction activities,
and trying to use domestic contractors as much as possible. During negoti-
ation's, HA stated that it intends to carry out a study on the role of
domestic and foreign constructors and force account in constructing roads,
and would seek financing for this purpose under the next IDA financed high-
way project. The YAR delegation stated that the purpose of such a study
would be to help establish and implement a policy which would further
assure tbat roads would be constructed most economically and efficiently.
The YAk delegation also confirmed that the Government would formulate such
a policy and discuss it with IDA by June 30, 1989.
R. Maintenance
2.18     When HA was established in 1972, hardly any attention was paid to
road maintenance.  The rapid development of the road network in the 1970s
was not matched by an improved maintenance capability because of an endemic
shortage of funds, equipment and manpower. Subsequently, the road network
deteriorated considerably. HA then undertook a road maintenance program
beginning in 1978 to reverse this deteriorating trend, assisted under the
Third Highway Project. This program was based on an inventory of HA's
network needs and an appraisal of the equipment, manpower and budget needed
for periodic and xoutine maintenance.
2.19     The Government increased its road maintenance budget from
US$150,000 equivalent in 1972 to US$6.2 million equivalent in 1985 which is
satisfactory. IDA and the OPEC Fund financed needed maintenance equipment
and workshop improvements. The main bottleneck of the program, however,
was the lack of trained personnel to operate the equipment, to man the
newly-equipped workshops, and to supervise and monitor the work of the
maintenance teams. A successful training program was carried out under che
Third and Fifth Highway Projects which is largely overcoming this probliem
(paras. 2.22-2.24).
2.20     Road maintenance is presently HA's highest priority.  Maintenance
of the 3,250 km. road network is carried out with HA's own equipment and
manpower. Maintenance is organized under five regional offices (Sana'a,
8odeidaa, Ibb, Taiz and Saadah), each office with its own equipment and
workshop. Major repairs are made at the central workshop in Sana'a and at
the maintenance training center workshop in Taix. Routine and periodic
maintenance, particularly on the main roads, are improving constantly and
are generally satisfactory. In the case of some important roads, overlays
are financed by foreign lenders and carried out by contractor.
2.21    Maintenance of LDA roads are carried out by LDAs. In the long
run, when-HA has built up sufficient capacity for an extended network, the
more important of the WDA roads should be integrated into the main road
network and maintained by HA. The Highway Master Plan identifies these LDA
roads and recomuends that they be transferred to HA after adequate upgrad-
ing.



- 18 -
I. Training
2.22     An important bottleneck to achieving an effective road maintenance
program has been the pervasive shortage of skilled personnel (para. 2.19).
To a lesser degree this also applies to other MA departments. Consultants
engaged under the Third Highway Project designed a training program based
on an inventory of existing and required manpower in HA. A Vocational
Training Center (VTC) at Taiz was then established to carry out these
training activities. At the beginning, the program was delayed due to
difficulties in recruiting a team of expatriate instructors. The program
is now being implemented with excellent results.
2.23     Training is provided for seven specialties required by HA and
CYDA: auto mechanics, auto electricians, plant mechanics, road super-
visors, machinists, welders and plant operators. Classes are given by
seven expatriate instructors, each assisted by a Yemeni counterpart in-
structor, under the overall supervision of a Chief of Training. Theoret-
ical training is carried out at the VTC in Taiz. Practical training is
provided through the mobile road training production unit and the mechan-
ical training production unit. HA needs at least 600 trainees from the
school. At end-1985, about 450 trainees had been accepted of which about
320 have graduated and are working for KA. Seventy graduates are working
for CYDA, which represents an important part of the technical assistance
provided by HA to the LDAs. The program is also well known among private
sector employers, who have recently started sending their own staff for
training.
2.24     Twelve trainees with the highest level of education and experience
were chosen as counterparts to the expatriate instructors. The objective
is for them to take over as instructors at about end-1987, following the
completion of the Fifth Highway Project. The program also includes a
follow-up monitoring and evaluation system, under which KA graduates are
checked every six months to see if they are working effectively or require
further training. Furthermore, a survey of high level training needs in HA
would take place in 1986, followed by a training program in the VTC
financed under the Fifth Highway Project.
J. Accounting and Auditing
2.25     In 1983, HA introduced a new financial and cost accounting system
which covers almost all areas of financial management. Separate accounts
are kept for the construction and maintenance divisions, and expenditures
are separately recorded for each project. An adequate inventory control
system for spare parts is also in operation. Periodic reevaluations of
assets have taken place since 1981. On the whole, the financial and cost
accounting systems and documentation recording systems form a satisfactory
basis for the auditing and monitoring of road projects.
2.26     HA agreed under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Project to have
project related expenditures audited by independent auditors. This has
been done since 1983. HA is also submitting its annual accounts to the



- 19 -
Association duly audited by independent auditors. During negotiations, NA
agreed to provide audited project account  to the Association within six
months of the close of each financial year durLug project implementation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. §etting
3.01     IDA has actively assisted YAR since 1972 to develop its basic
transport network and related institutions (pars. 1.34-1.38). IDA's
assistance to the transport sector and in particular to the highway
sub-sector, the only land transportation mode, has been particularly im-
portant. Five highway projects, three complete and two ongoing, have been
approved. All of them are interrelated, and together they form a consoli-
dated strategy to support the expansion of the physical network and to help
establish new and efficient institutions and a rational policy framework.
Results have been positive. However, because of its late start on develop-
ment YAR still has a long way to go to complete its road system and develop
modern inatitutions and policies.
3.02     The Marib-Safir road project is proposed as an interim project
between the ongoing Fifth Highway Project and the proposed Sixth Highway
Project which was originally planned for this time. Because of the recent
discovery of oil and construction of a 10,000 bbd refinery at the oil well
site (Safir), construction of a road connecting Sefir with the paved road
network at Marib became urgent. The road is required in order to evacuate
refinery products by truck, to facilitate the further development of the
oil fields (paras. 1.04-1.09), and to provide access to an agri:ultural
area which will be irrigated by a new dam (paras. 4.05-4.07). The Govern-
ment requested that the Narib-Safir road be prepared as a separate project
because of its urgency.
D. Proiect Obiectives
3.03     The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) facilitate the substitution of domestic oil for imported
products by permitting the transport of white products from a
refinery at the oil field (expected to be fully operational
in mid-1986) to domestic markets;
(b) facilitate the further developmeat of the oil fields;
(c) provide road access, and facilitate the movement of agricul-
tural inputs and the marketing of agricultural products to
the Wadi As Sudd area (population 78,000), which will be
irrigated by a dam which was completed in early 1986; and
(d) increase the capability of the Highway Authority (HA) to
design road works.



- 20 -
C. Description
3.04     The project would consist ef:
(a) completion to paved standard of a new road from Marib to
Safir (62.5 km.), which is currently being constructed to
gravel standard by RA force account; and
(b) supervision of construction by consultants.
3.05     The road links Marib, the capital of the Governorate of Marib and
the end of the paved road network, with the oil fields and refinery at
Safir, which is on the edge of the Al Raba Al Khaly desert. The alignment
was selected by HA based on their study of alternative routes. The
selected alignment is the shortest of the four alternatives, and passes
close to, but not through, the most densely populated and cultivated areas
which lie along the banks, and on alluvial deposit, of the Wadi As Sudd.
From Km 32 to Safir, the road passes through an inhospitable area of the
desert which is populated by only a few scattered bedouin families.
3.06     The road passes through a generally undulating terrain which
varies between 1,350 m (Marib) and 1,000 m (Safir) in height.  Practically
all the alignment is in desertic land, because the road intentionally
borders the Wadi As Sudd in order to avoid any loss of agricultural land.
The alignment of the last 30 km. traverses a zone of high but stable sand
dunes. The climate is extremely arid. Rainfall averages less than 50
mm/year (mostly in June-September) and many years pass without any rain-
fall. Ambient temperatures in summer reach 45°C (115'F) and during the
winter go down to OC. Daily temperatures may vary more than 250C.
The area is subject to strong winds, mostly northeasterly, with velocities
up to 100 km/h in the summer months. The only water course crossed by the
road is the Wadi As Sudd.
3.07     The gravel road (phase 1) will consist of an embankment made of
local soil, topped by a 40 cm thick gravel/selected granular material sub-
grade and a 20 cm thick gravel sub-base. The second phase, to be financed
under the proposed project, would include the addition of a 20 cm thick
crushed aggregate base course plus a 4 cm thick asphalt concrete wearing
course (chart 2). The asphalt concrete carriageway would be 7 a wide with
compacted gravel shoulders 1.5 m wide. The second phase would include the
construction of a 250 m long ford across the Wadi As Sudd, the only major
drainage structure along *he road, plus several irrigation pipes. The road
is expected to carry up to 930 vpd in 1990, including 155 heavy tanker
trucks. This is equivalent to about 0.38 million standard axles, based on
the national axle-load limitations of 13 tons. The design standards were
determined on the basis of expected traffic loadings and the physical con-
dition of the terrain.
D. EnRineering
3.08     IA is playing an important role in the preparation of the project
as a result of the maturity it has now reached, assisted by IDA under



- 21 -
previous projects. HA, assisted by two expatriate experts financed under
the Third Highway Project, prepared the feasibility study and the detailed
engineering design documents for the project. All the soil tests are being
carried out at the HA laboratory, partly financed under the Third Highway
Project, which is exclusively staffed by Yemenis. The Association provided
comments on the feasibility study and engineering designs. However, these
documents were prepared on the assumption of the additional temporary
transport by truck of 50,000 bbd of crude oil for export before the opening
of the scheduled pipeline. The Government recently decided to advance
construction of the pipeline and not to transport any crude oil by road.
The documaents were therefore, revised in view of the reduced traffic, which
implied a change of the design from 7 cm to 4 cm asphalt concrete wearing
course. The revised feasibility study and engineering designs were re-
viewed and agreed during negotiations.
3.09    HA is currently constructing the first phase of the road by force
account to gravel (sub-base) standard using its own funds. It is proposed
to complete the road (base, shoulders and wearing course) to paved standard
also by force account with IDA financing under the proposed project. The
reasons for this exceptional proposal are twofold: (i) KA is satisfac-
torily constructing phase I of the road by force account. To complete the
road to asphalt standard by contractor selected under International Com-
petitive Bidding (ICB) would likely delay construction by about nine months
(the duration of the ICB process) and would increase the cost of mobili-
zation and maintenance, and result in a loss of expected vehicle operating
cost savings; and (ii) a contractor would have difficulty in working in a
remote area where local tribes have jurisdiction over land and water
rights. The first phase is being supervised by consultants financed under
the Fifth Highway Project, and is scheduled for completion in October
1986. Supervision of the second phase by consultants would be financed
under the proposed project.
S. Cost Estimate
3.10    The total cost of the proposed Marib-Safir road (both phases) is
estimated to be about YR 189.5 (US$ 26.2) million with a foreign exchange
component of about TR 101.1 (US$13.9) million. The second phase of the
road, which would be financed under the proposed project, is estimated to
cost about YR 105.4 (US$14.5) million, including a YR 60.3 (US$8.3) million
foreign component.
3.11    Construction cost estimotes are based on quantities from engineer-
ing designs and on unit rates derived from the individual works and checked
against recent favorable contract awards in YAR and recent force account
works (mainly the Yarim-Qataba road). The foreign costs are estimated from
a breakdown of cost components. Taxes amount to about 12 percent of totAal
cost; exempted taxes on imports have been excluded. The supervision of
works is estimated to take about 100 man-months and to cost YR 7.1 (CS$l.0)
million, of which 70 man-months costing YR 4.9 (US$0.7) million would be
required to supervise the second phase financed under the project.



- 22 -
3.12      A physical contingency of five percent is included for both civil
works and construction supervision to cover possible increases in quan-
tities. Prices escalation has been estimated assuming the rates of infla-
tion for local and foreign costs for the periods 1986-89 as shown in Table
3.1:
table 3.1:           1
% of f.t.
ta_ L I ICSI;]MS~Trn                                  uta
- mli---i. (tMliaUn$ u11s)-
Cmsstr"ut  of th lirib-Stfir read
first Phas - Cafstr"tfs           37-.7(.2)   30.9(4.3    9.4(1.3)   7.0(10.8)
Ph)s tal Cative vies (at           1.94LL21   1.5lL*2I  SJL..L *JfLLA)             55
391.5f.5)   32.4(4.5)   9.9(1.4)  61.9(11.4)
censtrusties SOuNr vsiten         *..a .    .JLLJ-I   _ f            2       2t&2  Ss
Subtdoal First Phase          40.8(.7)   33.44.6)   9.9(1.4) 8.1l t) 0
Secaud phse - Cmistruetimn        43.6(5.0)   24.S(3.4)   9.3(i.3)  77.4(10.?)
Physieal Cast!uomies (n)          -.LILIA     _..2LLLZI   JL.LLL   JALALS          64
45.6(6.5)   25.7(3.61   9.8(1.4)  $1.3(11.3)
Construstiem Supervis n            44,JLS.   JLMiL ZILL. --eJL.ZI                  90
50.2(6.9)   26.2(3.5)   9.U(1.4)  66.2(11.9)
Price CORtInuse les - Second hse  ILLLLAi   JJL*JL   .. Z L 2L9S  _! LZ
Subtot  Secomn Phase         40.3(8.3)   32.8(45)  12.3(1.7)  105.4(14.5)      6S
Total - seth phases                101.1(14.0)  66.2(9.1)  22.2(3.1)  189.5(23.2)    60
total Propouse Project (Sac"ot ROhsM) 60.3(8.3)   32.S(4.5)  12.3(1.7)  166.4(14.5)  65
NT:    Pries  as atof  w 1986; US$1 a V 7.25. taxes for
civil works are 12 percuat of totl cusstvuctimm
ct.  Price cti ttngcies for th Second Ptae are
based 11 the diso_ast profile of tUe sitllar
Taiz-Al Herl   road which ws reently coopleted
unde Ur t  tbo   Hisho Projwet (foard arowal
Jme 1902; worts coltd fruy 19"; disburse-
musts subtntIally _ loted mid-1965).  Folleutog
this prw"esdnt. we wmld disburs 0 in 1966; M22
in 1967: 125 In 1986. 425 in 19  and 202 1n 1990.
Price contingole ss are am bausn thm folluing in-
fllatln rates estiusted by the Association:
foreign (2)    7.2      6.8     5.81    7.0      7.1
Loeal (S)     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
During negotiations the Government confirmed the above cost estimate.
Financing
3.13      The Association would provide a Credit of US$10.0 million equiva-
lent to finance the whole estimated foreign cost of the project (second
phase) of YR 60.3 (US$8.3) million and 38 percent of the estimated local
cost (excluding taxes) or YR 12.3 (US$1.7) million. The borrower would be



- 23 -
the Govermt of YAR. The Governmt would finance the remaining local
cost of the project, estimated at TR 32.8 (US$ 4.5) million icluding YR
12.3 (US$ 1.7) million in taxes. During negotiations agreemnt was reached
that the Goverment will provide the necessary funds for the project
promptly as needed. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 3.2:
table 3.2: £h_aUuu.*JM
Cat Vs {t.mts MIl4lt       lw  o Utmatat
tibm~~   w       DM            m
euwtvustt           39.6  (     .5.)  43.3 (5.    01.9 (11.3)  -  01.9  .
(SI                 zZ.Z}(4 8.0)        (166.I"-               (10".6)
amst.iS _tufSW    m  1.t (0.2)  1.0 (0.8)   2.2 (0.4    -       2.2 (0.4)
(I)            .-.LL   .1"flS    ..LUJ           -         1USA1
Toal rtnut fte       46.0 (MY)  43.3 (-.6)  66.1 (11.?)  -     84.1 (11.7)
c..tr,stiom          540 (7.6)  44.S (6.1)  99.3 (13.7)    7.6 (9.)   32.3 (4.5)
(5)                  (55)     (45)       (100)      (67)       (33)
cestrostl $""vt,1.m    5.5 (6.6)  6.6 (6.1)   4.1 0.9)    S. (0*.*)   6.6 (6.1)
(5)                                               testL....    iii .LLL.....
Total  M_   e        60.3 (0.3)  iET1 1)  16S.4 (14.5)    n.I 0)  32.9 (4.S)
(5)          ~~~~~(57)  (43)     (166)        (69)      (31)
Gramrouli  (PM"1e a It)  1ol. (14.6) 5.4 (12.2  169.S (S.2)  7n.5 (10.6) 117.0 (16.3)
(5)          ~~~~~(53)  (47)     (156)        (36)      (6)
F.  rmlemetation and Monitoring
3.14    The Central Planning Organization (CPO) will be responsible for
imlementing the proposed project. The road will be constructed by KA
using its own force account. CPO will employ consultants to assist it in
supervising the construction. The qualification, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of expert selected will be acceptable to the
Association. Term of Reference are included in Aanex 4 and were agreed at
negotiations. Employment of consultants for supervision of the construc-
tion of the road will be a condition of effectiveness of the project.
3.15     The proJect is expected to start in mid-1987 and be completed in
June 1989, three years after Board approval (para. 3.19 and Annex 5). It
is. bowever, possible following discussions with the Government (Annex 5),
that the project will be implemented more efficiently are the implemen-
tation period, reduced to eighteen monghs (three months for effectiveness
and fifteen months for physical execution). The implementation schedule
was discussed and agreed with the Borrower at negotiations.



- 24 -
3.16     CPO would submit quarterly progress reports to the Association
detailing the progress of civil works and effectiveness of consultant
supervision. Within six months of the closing date of the Credit, the
Borrower would provide the Association with a project completion report.
Annex 6 gives details of project monitoring indices to be applied and used
in the reports. During negotiations, reporting arrangements were discussed
and agreed.
Procurement
3.17     The civil works (US$13.0 m.) would be carried out using NA's force
account (para. 3.09) under a single unit-price agreement with CPO which was
reviewed and approved at negotiations (para. 3.14). The asphalt required
for the civil works (US$1.4 m.) would be procured under international com-
petitive bidding according to documentation prepared by the Borrower fol-
lowing the Association's Guidelines for Procurement. The cost of asphalt
would be subtracted from each works certificate to avoid double counting.
Based on present country profiles it is expected that works will start on
July 1, 1987 and be completed by mid-1989 (Annex 5). During negotiations
these arrangements were discussed and agreed with the Borrower.
3.18     Construction supervision (US$0.7 m. equivalent) would be carried
out by CPO with the assistance of qualified consulting engineers, selected
and appointed on the basis of IDA Guidelines. This was discussed and
agreed at negotiations.
Disbursements
3.19     For civil works, funds would be withdrawn by CP0 from the Special
Account (para. 3.20) on the basis of certificate of works and/or statement
of expenditures. Disbursements for procurement of asphalt and consultant
services for supervision of civil works would be made on the basis of full
documentation provided to the Association. Disbursements would be made on
the following basis:
(a) 55 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for asphalt; and
(c) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of the consultants'
services for supervision of civil works.
Annex 7 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements. It is expected that
the project would be completed by June 30, 1989 and that disbursements
would be completed by June 30, 1990 based on t- actual implementation of
the civil works component of the Fourth Highway Project (Table 3.1).
3.20     The Associations share of the project would be financed through a
Special Account which would be opened in the Central Bank by the CPO. The
Association would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 million in the account,
equivalent to about four months of project expenses. CPO would disburse



- 25 -
from the account on the basis of withdrawal applications supported by works
certificates and/or statements of expenditure submitted by HA and certified
by the supervision consultants. CPO would request replenishments of the
Special Account from the Association, and would retain supporting documen-
tation for inspection by the Association, which would be audited annually
by independent auditors. The Government and HA agreed to this arrangement
during negotiations.
G. Employment Effects
3.21     Construction of the road would provide employment for about 250
persons during a construction period of two years. By increasing trans-
port, facilitating further development of the oil fields, and by boosting
agricultural and economical development, the project would generate new
employment opportunities which would benefit the Wadi As Sudd area (popu-
lation 78,000), one of the poorest areas of the country.
H. Environment
3.22     Construction of the Marib-Safir road would not detrimentally
affect the environment. The alignment was selected to pass close to, but
not through, land with agricultural potential. Paving the road will avoid
adding dust to the air. Concentrating traffic on the road will, in fact,
considerably reduce the dust and erosion associated with traffic moving on
multiple desert tracks. The road will make several ancient monuments more
accessible to tourists; the Government is constructing fences to protect
these monuments.
3.23     The road may result in some increase in traffic accidents which,
however, is expected to be minimal because of the favorable alignment and
geometric standards of the road, and because of the vehicle speed and
weight control being exercised by HA. Noise levels will increase, but this
will not affect populated areas. Finally, the spread of trash in the
vicinity of the road without an adequate system of garbage disposal may
also affect the environment. However, YAR is focussing on this issue at
present, and garbage collection and disposal schemes have been or will be
initiated in many towns.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Approach
4.01     The Marib-Safir Road Project is expected to generate the following
benefits:
(a) The road will reduce vehicle operating costs (VOC) for tanker
trucks and other traffic moving to and from the refinery.
The refinery may be expanded in 1987 or thereafter, but no
firm decision has been taken. Oil reserves announced so far



- 26 -
are sufficient for about 18 1/2 years of production uut may
prove to be much larger since the borders of the oil field
are not yet determined. The oil field also has substantial
gas/LPG deposits which may generate additional road traffic;
(b) the road will facilitate the exploration and possible
development of 14 other undrilled structures in the Marib
basin (Safir);
(c) the road will reduce VOCs for agricultural traffic moving to
and from the Wadi As Sudd area. The road will also increase
economic activity in the Wadi area which has a population of
about 78,000 who have no road access at present; and
(d) the road will improve security, administration and national
integration. The oil fields and the Wadi As Sudd are located
in remote areas which are not yet well integrated into YAR.
4.02    The economic return from paving the Marib-Safir road was conserva-
tively quantified on the basis of VOC savings for traffic associated with
the 10,000 bbd refinery, and for agricultural traffic in the Wadi As Sudd
area. The other project benefits (para. 4.01) are quite significant, but
difficult to quantify. In order not to overestimate VOC benefits, it was
also assumed that oil trucks would be able to travel across the desert with
reduced loads in the absence of the Marib-Safir road. *  The economic
evaluation considered only the improvement of the road from gravel to
asphalt standard, a conservative assumption since the sub-base constructed
under phase one is not a true wearing course, and since the economic return
for constructing the entire road is higher than for the phase two works
(para. 4.11). The analysis was based on an economic feasibility study
carried out by VA and assisted by an economist from Rendel, Palmer and
Tritton (UK), which is available in the project file, and the estimates of
the appraisal mission.
B. Traffic Forecasts
4.03    Oil Traffic:  The oil refinery at Safir is expected to produce
10,000 bbd of white products beginning in mid-1986. The Government has
*   If this is not possible, then the road and the refinery are a joint
investment which are both necessary for domestic oil to be refined.
Benefits should then be calculated on a value added basis, and the
economic return for the road is very high. The cost of the road ($26.2
million) plus refinery ($50.3 million) result in value added benefits of
about $442 million .... say US$15/barrel (FOB price) plus US$3/barrel
(Iodeidah to Sanm'* road transport cost) less US$3/barrel (Safir to Sena'a
road transport cost) lese US$2/barrel (production cost) times 10,OOO (bbd)
times 365(days) times 19 (years) times 49S (YAR share after exploration
costs) - $442 million.



- 27 -
announced that it has 400 million barrels in reserves (para. 1.05). It was
assumed that crude oil would be produced and the refinery operated over an
18 1/2 year period. The Government is considering doubling the output of
the refinery in 1987 or later in order to supply about 752 of domestic
needs. However, this possible expansion was not taken into account in the
economic evaluation because plans are not yet firm.
4.04     White products would be transported in privately owned tanker
trucks which average 8bout 30,C00 liters in capacity. There are aufficient
tanker trucks in YAR to provide the 80 or so trucks which will be re-
quired. Traffic to and from the refinery is expected to total about 170
vpd, of which 155 vpd are tanker trucks and the remainder light vehicles
carrying personnel and supplies.
4.05     Agricultural Traffic:  The first 32 km of the Marib-Safir road
will serve the Wadi As Sudd, an agricultural area which has no road access
at present. The Wadi was the center of the ancient Kingdom of Sheba, which
was irrigated from about 700 BC to 700 AD by the famous Marib dam, whose
ruins are now a tourist attraction. The Government is constructing a
modern dam 3 km upstream from the ancient site which was essentially com-
pleted in early 1986.   Fifty five km of irrigation canals and related
installations are expected to be completed in 1988. The dam will store up
to 390 million m3 of water, and will discharge an average 200 million
m3 of water p.a. for irrigation.  The dam plus canals will cost an
estimated US$75 million, which is being financead by the Abu Dhabi Fund.
4.06     The present population of the Wadi is estimated to be about 78,000
(including 5,000 nomads). The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Resources (MAF) estimates that about 85,000 tons of agricultural products
are produced each year in the Wadi, partly on irrigated land and partly on
land watered by wells. The principal crops are watermelons, grapes, maize
and sorghum. KAFM and consultants Electrowatt forecast that 10,000 addi-
tional hectares will be irrigated by 1990 and 30,000 additional hectares by
2000, following construction of the dam. They project that total agricul-
tural output will increase to about 125,000 tons by 1990 and to 225,000
tons by 2000.
4.07     Agricultural inputs and produce are presently moved between Marib
and the Wadi via a series of desert tracks which have no fixed alignment.
Following the partial construction of the first section of the Marib-Safir
gravel road in late 1985, traffic began to concentrate on the new align-
ment. Traffic levels along the 32 km of the Wadi were estimated on the
basis of a 3-day count along the new alignment to average 510 vpd, exclud-
ing oil, military and road construction traffic. Ninety seven percent of
this traffic are pickups, landrovers or similar small vehicles, and the
remainder light trucks which average about five tons in size. Future
traffic which is not oil related was forecast tc grow in proportion to the
expected increase in agricultural output. Non-oil traffic is therefore
expected to increase to about 760 vpd by 1990, and to 1400 vpd by 2000. It
was assumed that the vehicle mix would remain the same since the vehicles
will probably still have to travel across the desert to their final



- 28 -
destination. It was also assumed that the vehicles would travel an average
17 km on the Marib-Safir road, consistent with observed traffic flows.
C. Vehicle Operating Costs
4.08     Vehicle operating costs were estimated on the basis of tht  method-
ology proposed by the Transport and Road Research Laboratory (U.K.), as
applied in the Highway Master Plan Study by consultants Dar Al Iandasah,
all updated to end-1985 prices. Details of the estimate are in the project
file. Summary results are as follows:
Table 4.1: Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
Variable Economic Vehicle
Operating Costs (YR/km)
Vehicle Type                 Desert Track   Gravel Road   Asphalt Road
Pickup truck (1.5 ton)              $3.066        $1.617          $1.075
Light truck (5 ton)                  3.574          1.760          1.138
Oil tanker (30,000 ton) 1/           7.197          4.665          3.373
1, It was assumed that oil tankers would travel fully loaded over a gravel
or asphalt road, and one-half loaded over the desert.
D. Construction and Maintenance Costs
4.09      Project costs include the costs of construction and supervision,
including physical contingencies but net of taxes and price contingencies.
Construction costs were adjusted to December 1985 price levels for purposes of
the economic evaluation. No other adjustments to financial costs were made.
Construction of the gravel road began in September 1985 and is expected to be
completed by October, 1986. Completion of the road to asphalt standard was
assumed to start in mid-1987 and to be finished by mid-1989.
4.10      Routine maintenance of the asphalt road (patching, clearing dunes,
etc.) was estimated to cost YR 10,000/km/year. It was estimated that the road
would have to be resurfaced with a 2 cm overlay in the ninth year at a cost of
about YR 215,000/km. in order to keep the road in good condition, and that the
road would have a residual value of 75% of its construction cost when it was
15 years old.
E. Results and Sensitivity Analysis
4.11      The flows of construction and maintenance costs and project benefits
are shown in Annex 8. On this basis, the economic return for constructing the
road (Phase 1 plus Phase 2) is conservatively estimated to be 22X. The eco-
nomic return for improving the road from gravel to asphalt standard (Phase 2,
financed under the project) is conservatively estimated to be 13%.



- 29 _
4.12      There are no particular project risks.  If project costs are 20Q
higher than anticipated, the economic return for the project (phase 2) is
estimated to be 11X. If project benefits are 201 less than expected, then the
economic return for the project would also be 11X. Completion of the
Marib-Safir road to aspbalt standard is therefore considered to be economi-
cally justified under all likely scenarios.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During credit negotiations the Government confirmed:
(a)   the project cost estimate (para. 3.12); and
(b)   the financing plan (para. 3.13).
(c)   that KA will carry out a study on the role of contracting
industry/force account and will formulate a contracting policy by
June 30, 1989 (para. 2.17).
5.02      During credit negotiations the Government and HA agreed with the
Association:
(a)   that HA will have its project accounts audited by an independent
auditor and submit it to the Association within six months of the
close of each financial year during project implementation (para.
2.26);
(b)   on the revised designs (para. 3.08);
(c)   that Government would provide the necessary funds for the project
promptly as needed (para. 3.13);
(d)   on the CPO/HA Agreement for the construction of the road, and that
HA would employ consultants to assist in supervising construction
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be acceptable to the Association (para. 3.14);
(e)   on the implementation schedule (para. 3.15);
(f)   on project reporting and monitoring arrangements (para. 3.16);
(g)   on methods of procurement (para. 3.17 - 3.18); and
(h)   on the availability in CPO for inspection by supervision missions of
all documentation related to the Special Account and its annual
auditing by independent auditors (para. 3.20).



- 30 -
5.03      A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that the consultants
acceptable to the Association for supervision of the construction of the road
have been employed (Para. 3.14).
5.04      Agreement having been reached on the above, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$10 million equivalent to YAR on standard terms.
6157D-



- 31 -
ANNEX I
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Prices of Petroleum Products, February 1986
(YR/liter)
Aviation
Costs and Prices          Gasoline      Fuel       Fuel Oil    Diesel    Kerosene       LPG -
CIF Import Prices 2/        1.52        2.32         1.33         2.09       2.32       2.88
Other economic costs        0.44        0.54         0.36        0.49        0.53       0.65
Economic Cost               1.96        2.86         1.69        2.58        2.85       3.53
Taxes and other
contributions            0.32         0.08         0.08        0.11        0.10      0.00
Financial cost              2.28        2.94         1.77         2.69       2.95       3.53
Retail Price                3.00        2.41         1.72         2.00       2.30       2.96
Retail price over
economic cost
YR                    1.04       -0.45         0.03       -0.58       -0.55     -0.57
2                    53         -16            2         -22         -19       -16
Retail Price over
financial cost
YR                   0.72        -0.53        -0.04    -'0.69         -0.65     -0.57
X                    32         -18           -3         -26         -22       -16
1/ LPG price per kg.
2/ Converted at the connercial exchange rate at February, 1986 of US$1.00 = YR 9.00.
Source: Yemen Petroleum Corporation and Energy Assessment Mission estimates.
May 1986
6358D



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Road Expenditures and Road Related Revenues* 1984
Road Expenditures
YR Millions
New Construction/Major Improvements                     295.0
Maintenance                                              32.7
Administration                                           50.0
Total                                    377.7
Road Related Revenues
Purchase Taxes                                            1.9
Registration Fees                                         8.6
rmport Duties                                           459.8
Annual Ownership Taxes                                  115.9
Driving Lisence Fees                                     10.3
Fuel Taxes                                               82.1
Lubricant Taxes                                          10.0
Total                                   688.6
Note: Does not include about YR 150 million p.a. for CYDA roads which are
constructed and maintained by self-help programs and financed by part
of the Zaquat (local religious tax). Does not include urban streets.
* Estimate.
Source: Highway Authority
March 1986
6358D



- 33 -
AMNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Existing Main Road Network
(As of December 31, 1985)
Paved                          1Km            Unpaved                    Km
SANA'A-EODEIDAB                 226           KITAB-ANNADERAH            30
ALMAGRABA-MANAKHA                 5           ASHOOL-IOBBISII            14
HODAIDA-AL 1APRAQ               192           YARIM-ALDALIL              63
SANA'A-TAIZ                     256           AL YAKRAR-AL KAFR          25
S,AMA-SAMAN                     242           YARIM-HOWBAN               25
BAJIL-MABAR                     159           IBB-AL UDDAYIN             31
TAIZ-TURBA                       70           IBB-JIBLAH                  6
TAIZ-AL MAFRAQ                   64           IBB-QATABA                 85
TAIZ-AL RANIDA                   68           IBB-BADAN                  19
SANA'A-HADDA                      6           TELEVISION ROADS           70
SANA'A-SHIBAM                    34           SHIBAM-ALMAHWIJ            77
SANA'A-WADI DRAR                 12           AL WAIDA-DISSUFAL          10
SANA'A-ALMATAR                   22           AL HOWBAN-MAWIYA           39
SANA'A-JIRANA                    49           TAIZ-SABAR                 11
SHIBAM-KABABA-THILLA             15           ASSAIRAR-MAKEANA           24
AIRPORT-ALSAMA                   15           HIDRAN-ARRAWNAR            26
NODEIDAM-KATIB                   14           JABAL-HABASKI              26
SANA'A-MARIB                    173           YOUFRES                     4
ANRAN-RAJJA                      77           ANNASEIMA-QADAS            35
SADAM-DALIRAN                    80           HODEIDAM-SALIF             46
HODEIDME-JAIZAN                 206           AL RUSHM-RAJJA             64
AL MAFRAQ-AL MOKHA               45           BAJ IL-AL KADEM            23
WADI DIAR-AL KARYA ROAD           6           AL MANSURIA-AL SUKRMA      20
SANA'A-BAGIN                      5           MIS-AL RHOKHA              29
MODEIDAI-RAKATNIB                 7           AL AWIYA ROAD              12
YARDM-QATABA                     96           ASSUKINA-AL QABA-
RAIBATH                   29
TOTAL                      2,144           ALSAMA-ARNAB               15
MARAR-ANIS                 82
HWTH-ALASSBAI              18
AL KATAIBA ROAD            22
ARRAB-HAZM                100
AL RIBAD-AL JABI           24
TOTAL                1,104
Source: HA and Appraisal Mission
March 1986
6358D



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
YOMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Supervision of Construction
Draft Terms of Reference
A. Scope of Work
1.       The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), with the Central
Planning Organization (CPO) a8 executing agency, has requested assistance
from the International Development Association (IDA) for the purpose of
providing engineering supervision for the second phase of the Marib-Safir
road works. Works will be carried out by force account by the Highway
Authority (HA) and include completion to paved standard of a 62.5 km road
built at sub-base level through construction of a gravel base, asphalt
concrete carriageway and stabilized gravel shoulders. The estimated cost
of the works is US$13 million.
B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Consultant
2.       The duties of the consultant are to supervise the works and
approve the materials and workmanship. He shall not relieve the HA of any
of his contractual obligations without the previous consent of CPO. Main
responsibilities, in coordination with CPO, are to:
(a) Issue order to commence the works, and approve the work
program, and the list of equipment and personnel submitted by
the HA;
(b) decide on HA's applications for subletting parts of the works;
(c) assist in the settlement of any disputes between the CPO and
RA;
(d) approve the HA's working drawings;
(e) order special tests of materials if required;
(f) appraise the progress of works and to order, if required,
the suspension of works and to determine any extension of the
period required to complete the works;



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2-of 3
(g) evaluate variations, issue variation orders, and fix rates
for unpriced works;
(h) issue certificates of payment to the RA, and certify
completion of the works;
(i) inspect the works during the maintenance period, and issue
the maintenance certificate; and
(i) advise CPO on all claims from the NA and make recommendations
in the case of negotiations between CPO and the HA.
C. Duties and Responsibilities of the Resident Engineer and his Staff
3.       The duties of the Resident Engineer and his staff are to observe
and supervise the works and to test (or order to test) and examine any
materials used or workmanship employed in connection with the works. He
shall not relieve the HA of any of his contractual obligations without the
previous consent by CPO.
4.       His main responsibilities, in coordination with HA, are to:
(a) inspect performance of works in compliance with the
specifications, order. supervise or perform tests on
mate:ials, and approve or disapprove the KA's plant and
equipment;
(b) check the progress of the works systematically, examine and
attend the measurement of any work that is about to be
covered, and order, if required, uncovering of unsatisfactory
works and its satisfactory reconstruction;
(c) check HA's accounts, invoices, claims and other statements
with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with the
contract;
(d) supervise the RA in all matters concerning safety and care of
the works; direct operations in case of an emergency
situation affecting the safety of life, of the works or of
adjoining property; and
(e) carry out such duties under the terms of the contract as may
from time to time be delegated in writing from the consultant.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
D. Reports and Documents
5.       The consultant shall furnish to the CPO the following reports and
documents in the English language.
(a) Monthly Progress Reports (10 copies) commencing at the end of
the month following the date of the agreement CP0/HA for the
construction of works. After the issue of the Completion
Certificate, these reports shall be submitted at six-month
intervals until the end of the Maintenance Period;
(b) Completion Report (ZO copies) at the time of the final
certificate; and
(c) Built Drawings (2 copies) of the project as soon as possible
after completion of the project.
E. Tentative Staff Schedule
6.       The consultant may reassess staff needed for supervision visiting
the site. Based on existing services provided by HA under Phase 1, and a
24-mouth construction period tentative staff needs would be:
- Resident/Highway Engineer      24 months
- Materials Engineer             23 months
- Senior Surveyor                23 months
70 months
7.       KA would provide the consultant reasonable office space and
transportation, both free of charge for the Consultant. It would also
provide additional technical services duly justified.
6358D



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAPIR ROAD PROJECT
Proposed Implementation Schedule*
Board Date                                        June, 1986
Credit Effectiveness                              May 1987
Signing of CPO/RA Agreement                       May 1987
Mobilization                                      June, 1987
Start of Construction                             July 1, 1987
Construction Period                               2 Ira.
Construction Completed                            June 30, 1989
Loan Closing Date                                 Dec. 31, 1989
Disbursement Period from Board                    3 vrs. 6 mos.
Add Safety Factor for Unforeseen                  6 months
Revised Loan Closing Date                         June 30, 1990
Disbursement Period                               4 yrs.
* Following country disbursement profile; however the Government assured
the Association at negotiations that it would take steps to fulfill all
conditions of effectiveness before October 1986 and to complete the
works by end-1987.
Source: Appraisal Mission
May 1986
6358D



YEMEN ARBA REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NURIB-SAFIR ROM PRO.IECT
Pronect Monitarino Indices
Actual as percent-       Reason (tt any)      Actions to be
Proieet Cnoopa"nt                                           Aia9U1                    ear Eic l af KtimtrnAd    for Piffarenee           takn
Karib-Safir Road Construction
(i)     Contract agreemnt (date)
0i1)    Formation/earthworks completed (m)
(OMi)   Sub-base and base completed (km)
(iv)    Shoulders completed (km)
(v)     Asphalt concrete paving (km)
(vi)    Drainage structures. culverts (units)
(vii)   Construction work completed (date)
(viii)  Maintenance work completed (date)
(ix)    Copletion certificate (date)
(x)     Final Cost
II.      Supervision of CoStruction
l1)     M/m for each expert
0i)    Final cost
s5uree: Appratsal Mission
May 1986
6358D



- 39 -
ANNEX 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SARIF ROAD PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million equivalent)
Cumulative Disbursement      Percentage
IDA Fiscal Year                       at End of Quarter          of Total
and Quarter                 IDA       Government   Total     Disbursement
FY 1987
September 30, 1986
December 31, 1986               -             -          -
March 31, 1987                  -             -          -              -
June 30, 1987                  1.0           0.5        1.5            10
FT 1988
September 30, 1987             2.0           0.9        2.9            20
December 31, 1987              2.2           1.0        3.2            22
March 31, 1988                  2.5          1.1        3.6            25
June 30. 1988                  3.0           1.3        4.3            30
FT 1989
September 30, 1988             3.5           1.5        5.0            34
December 31, 1988              4.0           1.8        5.8            40
March 31, 1989                 5.0           2.3        7.3            50
June 30, 1989                  6.0           2.7        8.7            60
F1 1990
September 30, 1989              7.0          3.1       10.1            70
December 31, 1989              8.0           3.7       11.7            80
Mtrch 31, 1990                 9.0           4.0       13.0            90
June 30, 1990                 10.0           4.5       14.5           100
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
May 1986
6358D



STAFF APPRISL REPgRT
YURI-SAFIR MAD PWJOECT
LEenoaic Costs and Benefits
__-----_------Phase One (gravel road)-------------          --------------- Phase Two (Paved road) ----------------
C-osts          _ VOC Benefits                              Costs               vOC  ane -its
Contruc-   Mainte-      Ol        Agric.       Net         Construc-   Mainte-        Oil      Agric.         Net
Year         Zion       -nine5     Traffic    raffi.c    hemfits          t1in        _WnanL    Traffic   =rafft.c    lMfiLts"
(1)           (2)         (3)        (4)        (5)         (6)            (7)         (8)         (9)        (10)         (11)
198S         36.0                                         -37.1
1986        36.0                     9.0        1.7       -26.4
1987                     2.3        18.1        3.8        19.6           18.6                                            -16.8
1988                     2.3        18.1        4.2        20.0           37.1                                            -35.9
1989                     2.3        18.1        4.5        20.3           18.5         0.6         2.3         1.3        -13.8
1990                     6.7        18.1        9.7        21.1                        1.1         4.6         2.6         12.6
1991                      2.3       18.1       10.2        26.0                        1.1         4.6         2.7          8.5
1992                     2.3        18.1       10.8        26.6                        1.1         4.6         2.9          8.7
1993                     2.3        18.1       11.4        27.2                        1.1         4.6         3.1          8.9
1994                     6.7        18.1       12.0        23.4                        1.1         4.6         3.3         13.5
1995                     2.3        18.1       12.7        28.5                        1.1         4.6         3.5          9.3
1996                     2.3        18.1       13.4        29.2                        1.1         4.6         3.7          9.5
1997                     2.3        18.1       14.1        29.9                        1.1         4.6         3.9          9.7
1998                     6.7        18.1       14.9        26.3                        1.1         4.6         4.2         14.4
1999                     2.3        18.1       15.7        31.5                        8.7         4.6         4.5          2.7
2000                      2.3       18.1       16.4        32.2                        1.1         4.6         4.7         10.5
2001                      2.3       18.1       16.4        32.2                        1.1         4.6         5.0         10.8
2002                     6.7        18.1       16.4        27.6                        1.1         4.6         5.3         15.5
2003                      2.3       18.1       16.4        32.2                        1.1         4.6         5.7         11.5
2004           -55.7      2.3       18.1       16.4        87.9          -57.3         1.1         4.6         6.0         69.1
tnternal Rates of   turn
Phase 1         30%
Phase 2         13%
Both Phases    22%
lI Cols. (9) + (10) - (7) - (8) + (3)
Source: Mission Estimate.
May 1986
63580



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
Documents in the Pro ect File
1.      Rendel Palmer and Tritton, Marib-Safir Road - Economic FeasibilitY
Studr (Draft Re wort) - November 1985.
2.       Appraisal Mission - A Note on Exporting Crude Oil from YAR Prior
to the Completion of the Export Pipeline - December 10, 1985
3.       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries Resources - Spotlight on
Karib Dam in Antiquity and Today (undated).
4.       Dar Al Handasah - Development of National Hishway Master Plan -
(Draft Final Report) - June 1985.
5.       Highway Authority - Marib-Safir Road - Final Engineering Designs -
November 1985.
6358D



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC
MARIB-SAnR ROAD PROJECT
HA ORGANIZATION CHART
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WRL  c°A   nrX 30S
I     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0641W ~  ~ 05ptlfY 061S  CHE        011f      066f                                                   0568W I56 
WECUANICLttt^ COUhC. 0506  ASIO      LANN       IINN      POIS        £55.       34I~        58F006              AITRO
555680= DIIIN DVSO     IIIN      f UFI       IIIN     DPIMNT DPUWI             oE       CONAI    CONS         £0  t      056
rIISO                                                                    ____X__,__.__,_ _.__.
1X1~~SoL                       SIlSV1 t1 I                      +    +   J                        ;    A                            t
EAOATR
SOURC WAt4 ^X OS



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC
MARIBS4R ROAD PROJECT
Croos Secton d th   Maib-Sok Road
1.5M     &UM            l6M       1.6M
,  __ 20W  1_______ I<t
4CM DH" ASPHALTIC CONCREIF (PHASE 2>                        40 /  T  4    /CT
MCM   KCRUSHEAGGREGATE            20 CM THICK GRAVEL J /ASE (PSAM 1)
BAM COURSE (PHASE 2)
ENMIUM MDE OF LOCAL 9Ots (PHSE i)
NoW
skldope 1:21uflllhof-I hon#ZOm
Sousrow HIwjovAuthor#
WVd8da-30376



CLAW Up 4C
SAUDI   A k A 6 1 A                                      YEMEN ARAB REP-BLiC
,S A U D I A A A                        MARIB-SAFIR ROAD PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK
I9A U_-   Project Road
.   __ <t                     ._                              d                           First ThrougJ Fourth Highway Projects
Roads Constructed
-SOULr, /                           N       _                               r          Fitth Highwaey Proijt
Paved Road Under Construction
* -    i  -   Other Roads
r,                 , i~        /                                                            - _ _-  Othef Paved Aoads Under Rehabid,tatioi
___________r______ .            S  A    A    D  A    H                                   -  Principal Gravel Roads
Wadis
N                                             ¢v  tNational Capitals
-  .3ti                        -                  { -                Cittes. Towns and Villages
4.   Main Ports
(<   |4.| -                                        .             *    International Airports
Province Boundanres
;nternattonal Eoundariea
.AJJA                                                                        20o                so    too
o         20        40         50
A ~ ~~~~~  A-  Nf A                                                       _
¢ x2aid.r MAX W k lMRIB
MAHW~~~~~~~~MR1 A 
Al ltw%6i  \                                                                              H.0a, .Ix    
0~~~~
SsJ ~~~         ,                                                 )            8  +'0   _vAA 0  I
rf      , 9                       t    E sD    A   (
kdJ                           M. /   I')Pb                                                      /
PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUSLIC  OF  YEMEN
E T H I O P I A                           /
/'\/
.  LI F  Of  ADEN                                                      lar__ a
DJIBOUTI
FEBRUARY 1986



