Docu_ms  of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
. /9d- yJA
Report No. P-4399-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
;
OCTOBER 14, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dulies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985                October 1986
Currency Unit  =     Yemeni Dinars (YD)
US$1      =         YD 0.345                       0.345
YD1       =         US$2.900                       2.900
PDRY Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COCA   -  Central Organization for Control and Audit
DANIDA - Danish International Development Agency
KVA    -  Kilo Volt Ampere
MAAR   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrariaa Reform
PWC    -  Public Water Corporation
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATiC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Beneficiary:            Public Water Corporation (PWC)
Amount:                 SDRs 5.3 million (about US$5.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard iDA
Relending Terms;        Twenty-five years including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 9 percent per annum.  The Borrower
would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Credit.
Project Description:  The project constitutes the second construction stage of
a long-term water supply master plan and seeks to
increase the critically short supply of potable water to
meet peak demands in the metropolitan area of Aden
through the year 2000. it provides for Ci) construction
of a wellfield; (ii) further renovation and expansion of
the water distribution network; (iii) management
assistance and staff training of the PWC for carrying
out hydrogeological studies; and (iv) a leak detection
and repair program.
Benefits and Risks;   increased availability of potable water in metropolitan
Aden would help improve the sanitary and health
conditions of the city's population. The network
expansion would be mainly in low-income districts where
under the project about 83,000 residents, who now obtain
their supply from standposts and water vendors, would be
served by individual house connections. As part of the
project, further strengthening of the sector
organization and the PWC will take place. The project
execution presents no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Lii -
Estimated Project Costst
Component:                                  Local         Foreign        Total
---------- us$ million----------
Water Production Facilities                  0.84           8.85         9.69
Distribution Works                           1.46           7.09         8.55
Renovation of Existing Facilities            0.11           1.31         1.42
Hydrogeological Studies                      0.06           0.49         0.55
Leak Detection and Repairs                   0 14           0.11         0.25
Supply of Operational Equipment              -              0.22         0.22
Staff Training                               0.10           0.14         0.24
Construction Supervision                     0.11           0.73         0.84
Total Base Cost                    2.82          18.94        21.76
Physical Contingencies                       0.41           2.73         3.14
Price Contingencies                          1.02           6.28         7.30
Total Project Cost                 4.25 V        27.95        32.20
Financing Plan:
Local        Forn           Total
------uS  millin----------
GovernmPnt/PWC                           4.25           -            4.25
IDA                                     -               5.60         5.60
DANlDA                                                 10.00        10.00
Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund                              12.35        12.35
Total                              4.25 1!       27.95        32.20
1/       includes US$0.62 million equivalent for taxes on civil works and
services.
Estimated Disbursement;
iDA Fiscal Year
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991   1992    1993
-------------------Us$ million--------------------
Annual                     0.96   1.95    1.54    0.69    0.25   0.15    0.06
Cumulative                 0.96   2.91    4.45    5.14    5.39   5.54    5.60
internal Rate of leturn: 8 percent
Appraisal Report: 5858a-YDR of October 3, 1986.
MAPS: iBRD Nos. 17290R1, 19254R and 19255.



lNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCiATiON
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATiON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE iDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDiT
TO THE PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATiC REPUBLiC OF YEMEN
FOR A GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       i submit the foLlowing report and recommendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 5.3 million (about US$5.6 million equivalent) on standard iDA terms to
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help finance a Greater
Aden Second Water Supply Project. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development, the Danish international Development Agency (DANiDA) and the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development are participating in financing this
project.
PART i - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Special Economic Report--Mid-Term Review of the Second Five-Year Plan,
1981-85" (4726-YDR) dated June 4, 1984, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 21, 1984. Since then, iDA staff have undertaken a study on
manpower development, at the request of the Government, and have periodically
visited the country to keep up to date with economic developments. The
following paragraphs incorporate their findings. A country data sheet is
attached as Annex i.
introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), with a population of about 2
million (1985) covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km
along the Gulf of Aden. it is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with
sparse vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural
production is limited tD some 12 scattered valleys (wadis) comprising the
total cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the
country's land surface. The one major resource is fish, which is not yet
fully exploited. The majority of the population lives on the narrow coastal
plain along the Gulf. There is also a concentration of population in tne Wadi
Hadramawt, a large fertile valley in the center of the country. The rest of
the population, of which 10 percent is bedouin, live in small scattered
communities. There are also an estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside
PDRY. Except for the oil refinery at Little Aden, there is little industrial
activity in the country. The country is still at a low Level of development,
its institutions are relatively weak and its per capita income was $550 in
L985. The economy remains highly dependent on workers' remittances and
foreign aid.



- 2-
Development Objectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to independence in 1967, the economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and
budgetary support from the British. Following independence, the Government
has sought to diversify the economy and carry economic development to all
parts of the country. Since the early 1970s, the Government of PDRY has
consistently pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context
of a planned economic system embodying state-owned enterprises in industry and
services, and state farms and cooperatives in agriculture and fisheries. The
principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to satisfy the basic
needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter, employ-
ment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the production
capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing,
construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase exports.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. The
private sector, however, has proven to be resilient and appears to have
regained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to
account for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services
(excluding general administration and defense services). Private activity can
be found in almost every sector and is strongly represented in agriculture,
construction, trade and transport.  The volume of private investment-mainly
in housing--has risen sharply since the mid-1970s. Cooperation between public
and private capital is encouraged in some areas, such as light industries, and
a limited number of joint ventures are now active. Foreign private investors
have been invited to participate in oil exploration and in the fishing
industry. An Investment Promotion Law was promulgated in 1981, providing
incentives to private investors and encouraging foreign investment in other
sectors such as tourism and construction. The response has been good from
both Yemeni nationals returning from abroad and foreign investors, and
investment agreements have been concluded mainly in fisheries and the energy
sector.
6.       Since the early 1970s the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased, largely through higher imports. School enrollment rose
sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while,
more recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion, together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment, b!t created some labor shortages. With the
recent return of some migrant worsers, however, the situation in the labor
market may be changing.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and by
a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para. 16).
The country has a very meager export base and there has been little (if any)



- 3 -
growth in exports in recent years. Notwithstanding large investments in these
sectors, agricultural and fish production have stagnated in the last six
years. However, since an increasing amount of products can be sold in the
free market as opposed to official channels (see para. 9), the output
statistics may somewhat understate the level of production and thus the
performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
8.       The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately trained
manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched and in recent years it has become increasingly
technically oriented.
9.       Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower, the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, including low government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight, although the Government has started to pursue a more
flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen. For
example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish have
been substantially increased, accompanied by measures permitting farmers and
fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives, to sell a large portion of
their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
10.      The Government's emphasis on development programs has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment, which
increased from $57 million in 1974-75 to $325 million in 1985. These high
levels of public spending accelerated the rate of economic growth in the
second half of the 1970s and early 1980s. GDP at constant prices grew at an
annual average rate of about 4 percent during 1976-81, compared with only 2
percent per annum during 1970-75. The major growth sectors were government
services, construction and manufacturing. Agricultural output and fish
production apparently stagnated. In addition to adverse weather conditions
which affected agriculture, the disappointing performance of agriculture and
fisheries was to some extent the result of labor migration from these sectors
to higher paid jobs within the country (e.g., construction) or abroad, and to
some extent the result of underestimation of output in these sectors (see
paras. 7 and 9).
11.      Since 1982 pressures on the economy have been mounting.  Production
growth has slowed down partly as a result of the disastrous floods of early
1982 and the subsequent drought which continued into early 1986. The floods
of 1982 inflicted severe damage cn the country's infrastructure and
agriculture sector, causing crop losses both for domestic consumption and
export. Industrial output showed only a small gain due to a shortage of
inputs. As a result, GCP declined in 1982 and figures for 1983-1985 indicate
that GDP grew by only about 2 percent per annum.



-4-
12.      Real GNP declined by about 6.6 percent in 1985 due to a sharp drop in
remittances. Prospects for 1986 point to continuing difficulties. Economic
growth is not expected to resume, remittances are likely to decline further,
and growing pressures on the fiscal position are anticipated. In addition,
the civil war in early January 1986 also resulted in heavy expenditures for
reconstruction and replacement and, although cost estimates are not final,
temporarily disrupted production throughout the country.
13.      To sustain the high level of public spending, the Government had to
make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. Since 1974, a number
of new tax measures have been introduced and tax collection improved. In
addition, greater effort is being made to improve the profitability of some
public enterprises although the majority still operate at a loss. As a result
of the government measures, total public sector income rose from $68 million
in 1974 to $430 million in 1985. This still left a large overall deficit in
the public sector amounting to $388 million in 1985, and the Government
recognizes that further efforts are needed to improve domestic resource
mobilization and to reduce expenditures.
14.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA. Gross foreign aid inflows rose erratically from
$66 million in 1974 to $314 million in 1982. Since then there has been a
sharp decline in aid inflows to $236 million in 1983, and to an average of
about $180 million in 1984-85, reflecting mainly the changing economic
conditions in the neighboring oil exporting countries.
15.      Total imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to a peak of $818
million in 1984. Most of the increase was due to rising world prices,
especially those for crude oil and foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import
volume to only one fourth of the nominal value. About 30 percent of imports
represented food and beverages, 22 percent crude oil and petroleum products,
and 20 percent machinery and equipment.
16.      The current account deficit of the balance of payments is very
substantial (about 50 percent of GNP). Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have
been able tD cover only a minor share of the import bill and the economy will,
for the foreseeable future, continue to rely heavily on workers remittances
and foreign aid. In 1985, commodity exports were estimated to be about $30
million or some 4 percent of commodity imports. Much more important than
commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $406 million in 1985. This
has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional
emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized remittance-financed
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Until 1982, fast growing
exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid enabled PDRY
to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The
latter rose from $67 million at end-1974 to a peak of $287 million in December
1982, before declining to $221 million in December 1985 (equivalent to about 4
months of imports).



- 5 -
17.      The decline of reserves reflects growing imports due to the floods of
1982 and the intensification of the development effort, as well as the fact
that remittances fell substantially in 1985. Tightened foreign exchange
controls reduced the level of imports to $695 million in 1985.
External Debt
18.      The large inflow of foreign loans since 1967 led to a rapid
accumulation of PDRY's external public debt, even though part of the aid was
provided in the form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) as of December 31, 1985 amounted to $2,243 million, of which
$1,275 million was disbursed. Bilateral sources accounted for $1,609 million
or 72 percent of total commitments, with the USSR providing the bulk ($1,133
million), followed by China ($149 million), Eastern European countries ($187
million), Arab countries ($86 million) and France ($47 million). By end-
December 1985, multilateral commitments amounted to $633 million, including
$431 million from Arab Funds, $188 million from IDA I' and $6 million from
the European Common Market. The terms of all loans are highly concessionary.
In addition, PDRY has received $625 million in grant assistance during
1975-85. mostly from Arab countries.
19.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments were $8 million in
1981. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have increased sharply since
then and debt service payments reached about $55 million in 1985, equivalent
to 11.6 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including private transfers). This will exert additional pressure
on the balance of payments.
20.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises. This law provided for
compensation in the form of 20-year government bonds bearing interest of 2
percent. In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze
substantial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Settlements
have been reached with almost all foreign companies. Dialogue continues with
one claimant company and both parties have stated their desire to reach a
mutually acceptable settlement.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2'
21.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base beyond the service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Although the Government is placing an increasing emphasis on support for the
directly productive sectors, efforts have also been directed towards projects
in the transport sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate
regions of PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main
I'       Including $10.4 million from the Special Fund (see para. 22).
Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Fourth Highway Project (P-4103-YDR), which
was approved by the Executive Directors on June 20, 1985.



-6-
markets. IDA is assisting in agriculture and fisheries, petroleum
exploration, and power; also, an extensive program is directed toward urgent
social needs, with projects in the water supply, education and health
sectors. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be an
integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
22.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971. To date, IDA has had 26
operations in PDRY, for a total commitment of $188.0 million including $10.4
million of Special Fund Credits. Of this total, $54.1 million has assisted
the transport sector, $55.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector,
$21.5 million the power and energy sector, $25.8 million the education sector,
$23.7 million the water supply subsector, and $7.6 million the health sector.
Projects are in almost all cases being properly implemented and disbursement
performance under IDA credits in PDRY continues to be satisfactory. Common
causes of delay have included the time required to arrange the required
cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in
attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in project mobilization, and in
recent years, shortages of both skilled and unskilled manpower. Lessons
learned from experience with delays and cost overruns in earlier projects are
being taken into account in our follow-up projects including the proposed
project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA and Special Fund
Credits as of September 30, 1986.
23.      Future operations are in both the preparation and study stages.
Project possibilities in agriculture, fisheries, water, transport, and power
are under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects
are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to
PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development
agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through
December 1984, the Government and IDA have been successful in securing through
projects about $196.8 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $1
million; Kuwait Fund $36.4 million; Arab Fund $87.1 million; Islamic
Development Bank $11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16.7 million, OPEC Fund $26
million, IFAD $11 million, EEC $6.4 million, FAO $0.1 million, Swiss Relief
$0.1 million, WHO $0.6 million and UNECEF $0.4 million), thus helping to
increase the inflow of development aid to the country.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
24.      Water is a scarce resource in PDRY which is located in one of the
world's most arid regions. The mean annual rainfall does not exceed 50 mm in
the country's coastat areas; but it is higher in the interior. The land is
rugged, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources, and temperatures in
summer rise to 43'C. The rate of evaporation is high, and runoff is limited
even in the irrigated areas. The majority of the population lives in the
narrow coastal plain along the Gulf of Aden. Farther inland to the north, the
country becomes very mountainous, and beyond the mountains flattens again to
form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into the Yemen
Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia.



- 7 -
25.      PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into wadis, of which the most important are
the fadramawt with a drainafe area of 90,000 kmZ, the Bana with 9,600 km2,
and the Tuban with 5,000 km . Since 1970, various studies of the major
groundwater aquifers have been made by the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO). The Association has assisted in this area by financing a study,
completed at the end of 1979, of the underground water resources in Wadi
Hadramawt, as part of an agricultural project (Credit 615-YDR). The Wadi
Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Credit 768-YDR) also included a water
management study of the Wadi Tuban aquifer which supplies water to Greater
Aden and for irrigation in the Tuban Delta, since for some time the rate of
water extraction had exceeded the aquifer recharge.  This study, completed in
1981, assessed the possibilities of increasing the water extraction rate from
the aquifer. Hence additional water must be brought in from an adjacent
basin, Wadi Bana, a project which is currently under execution (Credit
1038-YDR); but even this supply is not expected to meet the long-term demand.
This project would provide from the Upper Tuban area the required additional
production through the year 2000.
26.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) manages all
water resources in the country. A national authority, the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), is responsible for the planning, design, construction and
operation of public water supply systems in PDRY. Because of the climatic
conditions and low and irregular rainfall, agriculture in PDRY is dependent on
irrigation from groundwater and from seasonal floods. Given its objective of
bringing additional land under cultivation, the MAAR until recently had
concentrated its efforts on providing sufficient water for agricultural use.
But increasing claims by the agricultural sector on the scarce groundwater
have resulted in a decline in both the quantity and quality of water available
for urban use, and in the over-exploitation of the aquifers. This problem
reached serious proportions in Wadi Tuban, which supplies potable water to
Greater Aden, and in 1980 the MAAR issued a moratorium on the drilling of new
wells for irrigation in Wadi Tuban.  A similar moratorium was passed for Wadi
Beihan in the north of PDRY. In addition, in 1980 the Government set up a
Water Committee to regulate the collection and allocation of water resources,
and to establish usage priorities. This Committee is made up of
representatives of the MAAR, the Ministry of Planning and PWC. Bank staff are
providing advice to the Committee in preparing a work agenda and a water code
for the country.
Service Levels
27.      PDRY's estimated population of approximately 2 million (1985) is
about one-third urban and two-thirds rural, with about 10 percent being
nomads. Of the estimated 753,000 urban population, almost halt is
concentrated in the Greater Aden area. The second largest city, Al Mukalla,
has a population of about 65,000 and the third one, Seiyun, around 25,000.
The remaining urban population is distributed in towns with fewer than 10,000
people. Of the approximately 1.3 million rural population, about half live in
scattered places that are not large enough to warrant the installation of
public water supply and will have to continue to rely on individual water
sources.



28.      Based on recent data provided by PWC, it is estimated that about 52
percent of the total population already have access to public water supply
systems; about 80 percent of the urban population, and 40 percent of the rural
population, are served by public systems. Most of the population living in
the centers of the towns provided with public water supply have house
connections, but supply through standpipes is very common in the outskirts.
29.      In the rural areas, Local People's Councils, which report to the
Ministry of Local Administration, are responsible for providing basic
services, including water supply. With the assistance of PWC and MAAR, the
Local Coo,ncils implement and operate a program of well construction in the
rural areas, aiming at progressively reducing the distances travelled to fetch
water. Currently, villagers living in remote areas must st11 spend
substantial time to reach the nearest water point to fill a few goat skins.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has made a grant of $1.2
million to PDRY for the rehabilitation of water wells in the Northern Desert.
The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development also made in 1982 a loan of
$5.2 million for rural water supply works.
30.      Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are also
the responsibility of the Local People's Councils. Only three of the six
districts forming Greater Aden and small areas of Al Mukalla have a sewer
system at present, and wastewaters in both Aden and Al Mukalla are now
discharged without treatment in the harbors. The population in other parts of
the country uses septic tanks, dry pits, and in some cases relies on night
soil collection.
Constraints to Sector Development
31.      The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to the
accelerated development of the sector. Until recently, the Government had
given priority to the development of agriculture, fisheries and transportation.
Between 196B and 1978, investments in potable water supply amounted to onLy
$14.4 million, mostly financed by Government funds. However, the situation
greatly improved during the period 1979-1981 when $15.2 million was invested
in water supply works, and the tariff policy was changed to allow for
increases which substantially improved the financial position of PWC.
32.      Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity of
convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for
agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and
unfavorable location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. For
example, Greater Aden is located at more than 50 km from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer, a future supply source for the metropolitan area. A potential water
source for Al Mukalla is the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer, located more than 30 km
from the city.
33.      A third constraint is the present population distribution in the
country. Most of the rural population of 1.3 million live in communities with



-9-
fewer than 10,000 people, for which adequate water sources are difficult to
find and where high per capita investments are required for water supply
works.
Sector Development Strategy and Program
34.      Given the urgent need to save the fast deteriorating Aden water
supply system, the Government decided to give its first priority to Greater
Aden where the infrastructure to some extent already exists and where almost
half of the urban population resides. A $39.2 million water supply project
for Greater Aden, partially financed by an IDA Credit of $13.2 million (Credit
1038-YDR), is now almost completed. The Government's second priority covers
the improvement of water supply and sanitation in Al Mukalla and Seiyun for
which the Association has made two credits totalling $10.5 million. Parallel
to that, the Government is trying to improve the systems in other towns and to
pursue its program of well construction in the rural areas, aiming at reducing
the distances travelled to fetch water. To meet water demand in the year
2000, it is estimated that the Government and PWC need to invest (in current
prices) about $36.6 million in water supply works in Greater Aden, $11.7
million in Al Mukalla, $9.4 million in Seiyun, and $71.2 million in the
remaining towns and rural areas. These are indeed large investments for PDRY,
for which external assistance is needed.
35.      As important as the above investments is the strengthening of PWC,
which must continue to be developed in parallel with the proposed expansion of
public water supply services. Under the IDA-financed engineering project
(Credit S-21-YDR), management consultants prepared a new organizational
structure and revised administrative procedures which have been implemented by
the PCW. The Greater Aden Water Supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR) provided for
the stationing of management advisors to assist in the operations of PWC. A
staff training program was initiated under the Seiyun Project. Under the
proposed project, funds would be earmarked for the extension of the training
program through 1990.
36.      Given the country's severely limited financial resources, provision
of adequate water supply should continue to have priority over waste
disposal. As the overall economy improves, the progressive installation of
more reliable waste disposal systems in the agglomerations supplied with water
should be planned. Meanwhile, the Government, with the assistance of IDA
under a Health Development Project (Credit 1377-YDR), is expanding its current
health education programs to teach communities the appropriate ways to use and
maintain the existing sanitation systems.
Public Water Corporation
37.      PWC is a semi-autonomous public enterprise which reports to the
Ministry of Energy and Minerals and functions as a commercial undertaking.
PWC provides water supply services to Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, as well as
to eight other locations. A Board of eight members, chaired by the General
Manager, manages PWC's operations. All the members of the Board are employees
of PWC, representing various departments. The Government appoints the General
Manager and other departmental chiefs and also approves PWC's operational
budgets, investment program, tariff levels and borrowings. As a result of a
study carried out by consultants financed under the Water Supply Engineering



- 10 -
Credit (S-21 YDR), a new organizational structure is now in place in PWC.
This structure is proving very effective and has greatly improved the
decision-making process in the corporation. The system of billing and
collection is well-organized and efficient. In June 1986 PWC increased
tariffs in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla to keep the corporation financially
viable.
38.      As part of the first Greater Aden Water Supply Project, PWC received
technical assistance from advisors for three years to help it implement
organizational recommendations. The three ongoing projects (see para. 39)
contain staff training programs? some 50 staff members have received training
overseas, in mechanical engineering, water supply administration, water
distribution systems and planning; within PDRY, PWC has organized training
courses and seminars which have been attended by almost 150 employees.
Experience with Past Lending
39.      The Association started its involvement in the sector with the Water
Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR), for
which a completion report was issued in January 1983. This engineering
project included water supply studies in the cities of Aden, Al Mukalla and
Laboos, and technical assistance to PWC for streamlining the corporation's
organization, management and finance. The engineering project was
successfully implemented by PWC, and provided the basis for the formulation of
construction projects in the cities of Aden. Al Mukalla and Seiyun (Credits
1038-YDR, 1159-YDR and 1418-YDR). The execution of these projects has
progressed extremely well, and two (1038-YDR and 1159-YDR) are expected to be
completed by the mid-1987. So far PWC, which is the executing agency for the
projects, has met all the covenants of the credit agreements. Disbursement
records of the credits have also been good.
PART IU - THE PROJECT
40.      The possibility of IDA assistance for the further development of the
Aden's water supply was foreseen during the preparation of the first Aden
Water project, and at that time was outlined as Stage II. A preliminary study
of Stage II (Upper Tuban Wellfield) was carried out under Credit S-21-YDR, and
its detailed design was financed under the Seiyun Project (Credit 1418-YDR).
The proposed project was appraised in July 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November 1985. The delegation from PDRY was headed by Mr.
Khaled Abdul Whahed Mohammed, then General Manager of PWC. A report, entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report: People's Democratic Republic of Yemen Greater Aden
Second Water Supply Project No. 5858a-YDR," dated August 8, 1986, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Maps (IBRD 1729C1R1, 19254R
and 19255) showing project locations are attached. The main features of the
Credit and the Project are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
41.      The objectives of the project are to increase water production for
Greater Aden to the level required to meet the peak demand up to the year



- 11 -
2000, and to complete the rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution
network. Hydrogeological studies would also be carried out in Wadi Tuban and
Wadi Bana to determine the safe yields of the aquifers. To strengthen the
management of water resources in the country, technical assistance would be
provided to the PWC to help the corporation establish a hydrogeological
office. To lower the percentage of unaccounted for water, PWC would carry out
a leak detection and repair program. The equipment and staff training needed
for the program would be provided under the project.
Project Composition
42.      The project includes:
(i)    drilling and equipping about twenty boreholes in Upper Tuban Delta
to extract an annual average of 10.5 million m3 water, five
boreholes at Bir Nasir and three at Bir Ahmed two of the existing
water sources for the Greater Aden area;
(ii)    equipping the Upper Tuban wellfield, including the construction of
two 5,000 m3 steel reservoirs, the supply of a 620 KVA generator,
the supply of chlorination equipment, control and communication
system, and other mechanical and electrical equipment;
(iii)   construction of a 24/20 transmission pipeline between the Upper Tuban
wellfield and the existing facilities at Bir Nasir;
Uiv)    reshaping of the primary distribution network including the
installation of a 28-in main between Sheikh Othman and Isthmus
Pumping Station, of a 16/24-in pipeline from Main Pass Reservoir to
the Maalla District, of a 2000-rm  elevated tank in Mansura and of a
1,000-m3 elevated tank in Madinat Al Shaab;
(v)    improvement and expansion of the distribution network in the newly
developed areas;
(vi)    renovation of the existing system including the replacement of
mechanical and electrical equipment of three existing pumping
stations, upgrading of the mechanical and electrical systems of the
Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed wellfields, replacement of a reservoir at Ras
Marshag, one at Bir Fukum and another at Moat, and provision of
cathodic protection equipment for the steel tanks at Isthmus and in
Little Aden;
(vii)   technical assistance to PWC for the creation and operation of a
hydrogeological office, a leak detection and repair program, and for
construction supervision; and
(viii)  supply of operational equipment for maintenance and operations; and
(ix)    staff training.
43.      The project area is Greater Aden which consists of six conglomerate
districts, two of which are on the Aden Peninsula. The steepness of the
ground in these two districts restricts expansion, so that urban development
in the area is taking place mainly in the four districts on the continent.



- 12 -
44.      As part of the project, a unit would be set up in PWC to carry out
hydrogeological studies. A main task of the unit would be to collect data and
update existing mathematical models of the aquifers. Two hydrogeologists
would be employed for an initial period of three years to assist and train PWC
staff. When required for specific tasks, engineering consultants would be
hired for limited periods to help the unit accomplish these tasks.
45.      Funds would be provided to finance the extension of the training
program (see para. 38) through the end of 1990. More staff would be sent for
specialized courses abroad and more local seminars would be organized for a
larger number of employees. At the same time, in-service training by the
advisors and consultants would continue during the project implementation
period.
46.      Between 1981 and 1985, unaccounted-for water in Greater Aden
decreased from 30 to 26 percent of the water production. PWC is planning to
further reduce unaccounted-for water by implementing a leak detection and
repair program over an initial period of four years. Because of the corrosive
nature of the soils and waters in Aden, a special maintenance program is being
followed to protect the metallic structures and pipes of the system and
prevent leaks in the network. The program would be executed by PWC staff.
Periodic diagnostics of wastes in the system would be made by specialized
engineering consultants. Such technical assistance as well as the equipment
and materials needed for the program would be provided under the proposed
project. Unaccounted-for water is expected to be reduced to about 24 percent
by 1991, which compares favorably with international standards and is
particularly good considering the corrosive environment of the pipelines in
Greater Aden.
Status of Project Preparation
47.      The final design of the project is completed and tender documents are
in preparation. Land has been retained for the Upper Tuban Wellfield and
other planned facilities.  Review of the tender documents, as well as the
selection of consultants for construction supervision, are scheduled for the
latter part of 1986. The PWC unit, currently implementing the first Aden
project, would be responsible for project execution. Bidding on the borehole
construction and equipment supply for the renovation program would start in
October 1986 and the project construction in early 1987.
Rationale for the Association's Involvement
48.      Water resources are scarce in PDRY and good management of the few
existing water sources is absolutely critical if the country is to meet
short-term demands for urban supply and irrigation. In this project, the
Association would support the ongoing institution-building in PWC. The
capital required to develop the water sources is very large for PDRY. The
Association is playing a catalytic role in securing other aid agencies'
financial assistance for the sector. The proposed project is needed to
provide basic water supply services in PDRY's capital city and to allow
further economic development in this important part of the country.
Project Cost and Financing
49.      The total foreign cost of the project is estimated at $27.9 million,
or 87 percent of the total project cost of $32.2 million. The cost estimates



- 13 -
are based on a final design of the project and exploratory drilling in Upper
Tuban. The base costs oE $21.76 million have been increased by 15 percent for
physical contingencies and by 4 percent for construction supervision. Price
contingencies have been calculated assuming annual increases of local costs of
7 percent in 1986 and 1987, 6 percent in 1988 through 1990, and 5 percent
thereafter. Foreign prices are foreseen to increase annually by 7 percent in
1986 and 1987, 7.5 percent in 1988 through 1990, and 5 percent thereafter. On
this basis, price contingencies are projected to reach 29.3 percent of the
project cost.
50.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.3 million would be on standard IDA
terms and would cover 17 percent of the total cost and 20 percent of the
foreign cost. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development has approved
a loan of KD2 million for the project while the Government of Denmark, through
its aid agency DANIDA, has allocated a grant of $10.0 million. The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development plans to finance the balance of the foreign
exchange cost. The Association received assurances that if the cost of
completing the project is greater than the estimates, the Government would
meet any overruns in local and foreign costs.
51.      Parallel financing would be set up for the project.  The IDA Credit
would finance foreign costs of the construction of boreholes, the supply of
operational equipment, the leak detection and repair program, the training
program, and consulting services for the above programs, for the
hydrogeological studies, and for construction supervision, the latter being
jointly financed with the Arab and Kuwait Funds. DANIDA would finance the
supply of equipment and materials for the Upper Tuban Wellfield and the
renovation program, and civil works expenditures under the project. The
supply of primary and secondary pipes and the wellfield collector pipes and
the transmission pipes would be financed by the other cofinanciers.
Onlending Arrangements
52.      The Government would onlend the IDA credit to PWC at an interest rate
of 9 percent for a term of 25 years including a 5-year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit would be borne by the Government. The
local costs of the project, $4.3 million, would be financed by the Government
($3.3 million) and by the PWC ($1 million). The Government's share of the
local costs would be passed on to PWC as equity. The execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the PWC with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
Project Execution
53.      PWC would be responsible for project implementation, assisted by
consultants for the supervision of project construction, the execution of the
hydrogeological studies, and the leak detection and repair program. The
consultants for construction supervision would be hired in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, not later than December 31,
1986, and under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; those for the hydrogeological studies and the leak detection and
repair program not later than June 30, 1987. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1992. The project facilities would be operated and
maintained by PWC. During negotiations, PWC agreed to submit, during the



- 14 -
project execution, quarterly progress reports to the Association, and annual
reports for five years following the project completion. PWC also gave
assurances that within six months of the closing date oE the credit, it would
prepare and submit to the Association a completion report on the execution and
initial operation of the project.
Procurement
54.      Procurement arrangements for contracts financed by the Association
and the cofinanciers are summarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Financed by:                         IDA                 Cofinanciers'
Procurement Method           Own          Total
Project Element                ICB         Other         Procedures       Cost
…--US$ million-------------------
Borehole Construction            4.64        -                 -            4.64
Supply of Electrical &
Mechanical Equipment           -           -                 3.00         3.00
Pipe Supply                                  -                11.97        11.97
Civil Works Construction                     -                10.64        10.64
Supply of Operational
Equipment 1                                0.34              -            0.34
Hydrogeological Studies 2'                   0.85              -            0.85
Leak Detection and
Repairs I'                     -           0.38              -            0.38
Staff Training "-                            0.38              -            0.38
TOTAL COST -'                    4.64        1.95             25.61        32.20
TOTAL FINANCING                  4.12        1.48             22.30        27.90
-~' To be procured through price quotations from eligible suppliers.
-X Consultants for these elements would be retained in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3' Includes local cost of $4.3 million.
55.      The contract for borehole construction financed by the Association
would be awarded following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The drilling
contract is expected to be awarded to a foreign contractor. Materials and
equipment for operation and maintenance, and the leak detection and repair
program, costing less than $100,000 and aggregating to not more than $750,000,
would be procured through International Shopping with quotations from at least
four suppliers from eligible countries. With the exception of sand and
aggregate for concrete, all materials and equipment for the project would he
imported, and consequently the 15 percent preference for domestic manufactures
would not apply.



- 15 -
Disbursement
56.      Disbursement of the proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.3 million would
extend over seven years, and would be made on the basis of (i) 100% of the CIF
cost of all direct imports; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for civil
works construction, which may include the supply of materials and equipment;
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for staff training and consulting
services for the leak detection program, the training program, and the
hydrogeological studies; and (iv) 60 percent of foreign expenditures for
consulting services for construction supervision. The project disbursement
schedule is based on the advanced state of project preparation, and the
disbursement profiles of water supply projects in PDRY. While the
disbursement profile for the project is more rapid than the Bank's standard
profile, the Government has given assurances that it would finance any cost
overruns should the project execution last longer than now projected (para.
50). The Association has agreed to provide funds for the establishment of a
revolving fund corresponding to SDR 375,000 in the National Bank of Yemen on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Past and Present Financial Position
57.      PWC has steadily improved its financial position.  In 1985, PWC
earned an income before tax of $3 million which was 66 percent higher than in
1984. The rate of return on the corporation's net fixed assets in operation
was 12 percent in 1984 and in 1985 and the operating ratio decreased from 79
percent in 1984 to 71 percent in 1985. The continuing improvement in PWC's
financial position is the result of higher revenues produced by tariff
increases in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, and of a rigid control of the
corporation's operating expenses. In 1984, the operating expenses decreased
by 13 percent compared to the 1983 levels, while the revenues increased by 6
percent during the same period. From January 1981, the average revenue in
Greater Aden was increased to YD 0.128/m3 ($0.37/m3) from YD 0.066/m3
($0.16/m3). At the same time, a progressive rate structure was introduced
to provide a better distribution of the charges between different classes of
customers. The financial impact of the rate increase on low-income consumers,
whose monthly water usage does not generally exceed 10 m3U was minimal as
their water bills were raised by not more than 20 percent. On the other hand,
much higher tariffs are now charged to industrial, public and commercial
consumers whose water bills have in some instances more than trebled. But
they are the larger consumers and the increased tariffs should induce them to
restrict their water usage.
58.      Under the Seiyun water project agreement (Credit 1418-YDR, November
1983), PWC is required, for each fiscal year, to earn revenues sufficient to
cover, in addition to its operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt
service requirements and increases in working capital other than cash, not
less than 12 percent of the annual average of its estimated capital
expenditures to be incurred during such fiscal year and the two following
fiscal years. This covenant was established assuming that the first Aden and
the Al Mukalla Water projects would be completed by the end of 1984, with
resulting higher water sales in 1985 and subsequent years. The implementation
of these projects, however, has been delayed, with their completion now
scheduled for mid-1987. As a result, water sales in 1987 would be lower than
forecast in the Seiyun project, and PWC will be unable to meet fully the



- 16 -
financial covenant of Credit 1418-YDR. It is estimated that the percentage of
capital expenditures financed by PWC in 1987 would be about 9 percent. From
1988 onwards, PWC should be able to generate enough revenues to finance at
least 12 percent of its capital expenditures and thus meet the financial
covenant of Credit 1418-YDR. For this project, the financial covenant of the
Seiyun project was amended to 9 percent in 1987 but maintained for 1988 and
subsequent years.
59.      In order to achieve this level of cash generation, during
negotiations assurances were obtained from PWC that before November 30 of each
year, starting in 1987, it will, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the
Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs and, if necessary, adjust them
in order to meet the required percentage of cash generation for investment
during the coming year, and will provide the Association with a copy of such
review and the decision concerning the adjustment of the tariffs. During
negotiations, assurances were also obtained from the Government that it will
authorize PWC to implement the tariffs required to meet its financial
obligations under the project.
60.      PWC's future financial performance is expected to be good.  Its
operating ratio is expected to decrease progressively from 82 percent in 1988
to 74 percent by 1993. Meanwhile, the rate of return on the Corporation's net
fixed assets is expected to increase from 3.6 percent in 1988 to 6.1 percent
in 1993. The debt/equity ratio is expected to fluctuate around 30:70 during
the project construction period.
61.      Under the existing credit agreements, PWC is committed not to incur
any debt, other than for the projects concerned, with a maturity greater than
one year without the Association's concurrence, unless its future net
revenues, before depreciation and interest but after income tax, in each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, are at least 1.2 times
the annual debt service on the proposed and existing debts in such years.
This commitment has been maintained under the proposed project.
Accounting and Auditing
62.      PWC gave assurances that it would keep separate accounts for the
project which by law are subject to auditing by the Government's Central
Organization for Control and Audit (COCA). PWC agreed to send to IDA its
annual financial statements within five months of the end of a fiscal year.
COCA, which is an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, would carry out the
audit of PWC's financial statements and of the Special Account. A copy of the
certified accounts as well as of the audit would then be sent to IDA within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Justification
63.      The need for improving and increasing water supply in Greater Aden is
critical. The proposed project aims at rehabilitating the system and
increasing water production to the level required to eliminate the current
supply deficit and to meet demand to the year 2000. Moreover, the project
would help improve water supply services in the developing and poor districts
of Greater Aden, where the lowest-income people live and where the Government
is planning future industrial development. These people are now inadequately



- 17 -
served by standpipes. The proposed distribution works are to be executed in
these districts to allow residents there to connect their premises to the
public network.
64.      The proposed project is the least-cost alternative for providing
urgently needed additional potable water supply in the country's major urban
agglomeration. If the project benefits are taken as the projected water sales
accruing from the proposed project, and those sales which would otherwise be
lost if the system is not renovated, both based on the 1986 tariff, the
internal rate of return on the proposed investments would be about 8 percent.
This is a minimum measure of economic benefits from the proposed investments.
There are otber unquantifiable health and environmental benefits which
accompany improved water supply. Even in the unlikely event of a 10 percent
decrease in water sales and a 10 percent increase in investment costs, the
internal rate of return would be about 6 percent, which would still be
acceptable considering the social character of the project.
Risks
65.      The proposed project presents no special risks.  With the assistance
of engineering consultants, PWC should be able to supervise the project
execution properly. PWC has acquired experience in the implementation of the
first three projects (Credits 1038-YDR, 1159-YDR and 1418-YDR), which are
progressing very satisfactorily. Its supervision of the hydrogeological
studies is not expected to raise difficulties, as PWC has gained experience
during the execution of the Engineering Project (Credit S-21 YDR). The
implementation of the other project items is not subject to any special risks.
Environmental Impact.
67.       The project would result in substantial improvement of the sanitary
conditions in the low-income districts of Greater Aden by providing running
potable water. Although the project would result in an increase in the volume
of wastewaters, a sewerage project financed by the Government is under
construction and would have the capacity required to evacuate the increased
wastes.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66-      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
October 14, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 1B -                    ~~~~~ANNEX I
Pase 1 of 2
PORY: ECONOMrC INDICArOS
NA!IONAL ACCOUNT
19852
US$ min     Z
GNP at market prices            1215      100
Gross Domestic Investment        405       33
Export of goods and NFS          Tso       12       Annual Rate of Growth Ct)
Imports of goods and NFS         940       77            (constant _rices)
1976/81    1231-aS
GOP at factor cost               858      100                  4           2
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries        102       12                  1           -
Industry                        93       11                 10           -
Construction                    130      15                 10           -
Transport                       107      13                  3           -
Government Services            290       34                 12           -
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in millions Yeeni Dinars)          1974      1979     1918    1981       1921    1983      i984      1985
Total receipts 7'                   23.6      68.0      107.2   124.8    137       143      165       148
Current expenditures              27.6     76.2       96.0   137.5    142        151      165       170
Current deficit                   -4.0     -8.2       11.2   -12.7       -5       -8        0       -22
Development expenditures          19.6     52.0       74.2   105.1    137        130      131       112
Overall deficit                  -23.6    -60.2      -63.0  -117.8   -142    -138        -131      -134
Borrowing from Banking System   10.4       27.6        19.0    55.7      65       73       83        88
External Financing                13.2     32.6       44.0    62.1       77      65        48        46
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
(Y.D. million. end period)                     1974   19Z8   J2Z2   1980   l9El   1982   1983   ilSm   1.21
Money and quasi-money                         55     168    217    286    321    383    447    S10    551
Bank credit to Government                     24      87    110    127    151    216    282    350    436
Bank credit to non-Government Sector 2/    19         59      61      98    106    102    102    122    116
Increase in X
Consumner prices                              24       6      10      10      4      10      11      1.1    1.1
tf    Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
oF public enterprises.
2f    Hostly public sector agencies.
World Bank staff estimates



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Pae  of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (USS million)  197S         1979      i190      .91l       182       .i9H      1281      1285
Exports AB a                                      20        38        28        21        25        24         30
imports A/                           -178      -411      -650      -763       -730      -753      -818a      -695
Trade Deficit                        -la      -39     1 =51 -73i9                       ZZA      dS& -794   _63
Non-factor Services, net             14         14        14        10        -6        20       -15        -12
Factor Services. net                1i        14Z       lai       122       1Q         211      m2Z         155
Labor Income                      115)     (131)     (146)    (155)      (160)    (170)    (185)         (1SO)
Investment Income                  (3)      (11)      (30)      (44)       (50)      (33)      (17)        (5)
Current Account Deficit               _                   A-1       AM -       5        -5Q       -_7        -
Transfers                            U        Z         24                   la 4                           zmi
Official                          (10)      (23)      (83)    (144)      (126)       (42)      (30)       (30)
Private                           (42)    (182)    (201)    (255)    (307)    (270)    (306)             (256)
Official M and Lt Canital, net    11           52         2i       171       177       12        139        112
Gross Dlsbursements               (32]      (643      (86)    (175)       (188)    (1943       154       (151)
Repayments                        (-1)      (-5)    (-10)       (-4)      c-li)      (-7)     (-15)      (-42)
Other Capital (1ncl. E and 0)           42        -8        86       -24       -73         -       100          99
Changes in Official Reserves
I- = increase)                      13       -22       -25       -20       -32          6        32         28
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)  54          210        235       255       287       281       249        221
HERCHANDISE EXPORTS                       Average 1 984-e5
US Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                     13       48
Agricultural Products                      11       41
other                                      1       ..
27      100
EXTERNAL OEBT (December 31. 198S)           USS M111ion
External Public Debt Outstanding             2.243
of which:  Disbursed                       1.275
Debt Service Payments in 1985                    55
Debt .ervice Ratio (Exports of
Goods and Services)*                 11.6 percent
A   Net of re-exports.
W Workers' remittances.
* Private transfers are included.



- 20 -
ANNEX UI
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS a/
(As of September 30, 1986)
…------ Million ---------
Amount
(Lgss cancellations)
Credit                                                                   In4urse
- No-          Yk        Borrower       Puros                            It
Eleven credits fully disbursed (USS)                                   69.22
Three credits fully disbursed (SOR)                                               23.5
829- YDR       1978      PORY       Power I                             5.00                 0.83
932- YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                       10.00                 0.15
1145- YOR       1981      PORY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.                      6.6                 1.91
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply                       2.9                 0.69
1222- YDR       1982      PORY       Education III                                 5.3                 2.33
1274- YVR       1982      PDRY       Fisheries III                                 5.4                4.67
1346- YDR       1983      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agr. II                        8.3                6.57
1377- YDR       1983      PDRY       Health Development                            7.0                3.77
1418- YOR       1984      PORY       Seiyun Water Supply                           6.5                 3.37
SF19- YOR       1985       PORY      Education IV kh                               9.9                 7.74
1557- YOR       1985      PDRY       Agricultural Research & Extn.                 5.1                4.31
1617- YOR       1985      PORY       Highways IV                                   .6                 12.58
Total r1                                     84.22     9S.1
of which has been repaid                      0.75      9,Q
Total now held by IDA                        83.4.     95.
Total undisbursed                                                  tal    47.94
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
a?  The status of the projects listed above is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financed proJects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
h/  This is an IDA Special Fund credit.
£/  Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 21 -
'ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the        Ten months
project
(b)  Agency which prepared the project           Public Water Corporation
(c)  Appraisal mission                           July 1985
(d)  Date of negotiations                       November 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness              December 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Ci)    The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and the PWC with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 52).
2. Other Conditions. The Borrower has agreed that:
(i)    PWC would earn revenues sufficient to cover, in addition to its
operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service
requirements and increases in working capital other than cash, not
less than 12 percent of the annual average of its estimated capital
expenditures to be incurred during such fiscal year and the two
following years (para. 58).
(ii)   PWC will annually review the adequacy of its tariffs, on the basis
of forecasts satisfactory to the Association, and if necessary
adjust tariffs to enable PWC to meet its financial obligations
under the Project Agreement (para. 59).
(iii) PWC has agreed not to incur any debt with a maturity greater than
one year without IDA's agreement, unless its net revenues before
depreciation and interest are at least 1.2 times the maximum future
annual debt service on the debt to be incurred and the existing
debt (para. 61).



~~~~~ I
415                                   48'
20'                                                                   PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC V
GREATER ADEN SECOND W--
Project Lot
O)             !i0              100             1110
Mu (S
0         50        1 00       150        700       250
I         IKI                I I  S
Q
YEMEN                                                     Ozani`
_leU  {  _        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
ARAB r                          Iii. 
<1'.-                                                                                         0 A - .     .-      ,.=
16'                               ~~REPUBLIC
\1 51dh\*/                                                            K, 
., g \ * !!.:~~~~~~~~ ' -;-                                                            Hour!i.t;E:
.)                                                              /                       X,  !-s-gE,^j;-,-d,/
\         )_          _ /          w~~~~~~ ~~Marib   /r.i;    at
I .   \     SAAA   l  /.'   ,OShabwh
IMJr-At~    }'  < Sw -oA
no man xrs been prePd F                                                                   / T  iL
TIM evartf"w sonk*s smw W*-                                                                       W        H
kr the  OW R    of goV|  F J E
Miami uw of Tr* W*1/                                                                  Of   AL
cpatte.V rhe dibml8W* widIcue
-S _EIt ._fl 11 : I
used SW ft                  440 m                                                                           8'
an Enb  e W   M.G tc-UZF                                                                                     O



IBRD 19254R
AOlO                          5Q02 
REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN                                         20U
PROJECT AREA
JIATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                           PRIMARY HOAOS
- ---- -- MAIN TRACKS
Cocation                                                                         INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
4: s  HARBOR
\  *---s- -GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
3 9 1 * -- ~~~~~INTERNATIONAL
,..   w   /          r         J-9x)< ,¢,%BOUNDARIES
~~~~~R               ,.~./Y/.                         ELE-VATIONS
- / ' . } 0                   U-200 METERS
I-'  '-.-               - -//-*~~~~~,,,,,  ''~~~'~~~"  201 -iDOO0METERS
100 1-2000 M ET ERS
1- -                     ~>~~                -,, _12001-3000 METERS
, /.'A" "'   ~      ~      g, 
--- l    lay
I                            I~~''I /
-.S
.~~ ~ ~~ --                  -
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ . 0
.  ,   .  .  50O 52° SEPTEMBER ,9 /



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT OF THE WATER SUPPLY NEIWORK
O0        1         2         3
KILOMETERS
a?2/
t        Z   ~~~Petroeum,/* 
PROJECI:   EMSRlNGL
Pipellnes                                                              5', wI
---                 Bblended Waim Pi)e
0               Resefrvais                                                          4 MOr.,C 
Pumping St,flons
Well Reldsi
Elvated Water Tanks                                        /V
HghwaVs and Mqao City Raads
J~~~~ Ad~C-- d
0   2   4   o   a  10
,  .,  _,  . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K I t



IBRD   19255
Dari Su'od
1  i     ,.  ,   :1 '   '
20c0                                              Shelko Othrnan
* Hlswa                                      C-aftwls
GPEATEP ADEN
Akr O1I--n
YA. WP.O.
o       f, --   NW
-a. a   ;ye11v        1985



450                                               4B
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IDA- ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
PROJECT TYPE:                 EXISTING FEATURES:
ci..   Agriculture               a   Selected Towns and Villages                                 P.
4$   Fisheries                 1   Governorote Capitals
a    Petroleum Exploration     S   National Capital
*0   PowAssistance                  Airports                                        A
A    EducationPot
Highwaysa
*1Power Stations                   PScnary Roads
Transmissiont Lines           Tak
* Reseairch Stations             Tak
*    Water Supply                  Wadis
Port De !opentGovernorate Boundaries                                        m 
International Boundaries
ELE VATIO0NS
2000 meters
200
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,
16  164676 16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I~~~~~~~~~8I
450   428Ths 



ORBRD I '290RI
510                                             0
FISCAL
PROJECT                   YEAR APPROVED
\, PI     _ ivE: 4                                   1;  (   HIGHWAYS 1                   1971
oFISHERIES 1                         1973
~~~~gP~~~~~~~ ~~~~~EDUCATION 1                                                         1975
C) AA A   N  ~HIGHWAYS a                              97
M    A    N   ~~3 ADEN  PORT REHABILIIATION  1976
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC. I 1976
6  WAD! TUBAN AGRICULTURE   1978
7WADI HADRAMAWT 
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING  197B
& TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EDUCATION n                          1979
9  FISHERIES n                      1979
10 PETROLEUM  DEVELOPMENT    1980
I                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~ASS ISTANCE
ii ADEN WATER SUPPLY                1980
12 HIGHWAYS Iii                     1981
13 WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURE   1981
-~~~  -                      1~~~4AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY   1981
15 EDUCATION  Mf                    1982
16 FISHERIES M                      19I
- ~' ~fr~i~i~h.  ~    9                    18 ROADS FLOOD RFCONSTRUC- 1982
*416 1                            ~~~~~~TION    18
I                 19 WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC I1  1983
*ishtuIn i                   HEALTH  DEVELOPMENT              1983
20 SEIYUN  WATER SUPPLY             1984
~~*  K                       21 E DI~~~~j(A ITION  LV            1984
22 AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH  1985
AND EXTENSION
-~~~ ~~~As~~~hiI,r                                                 ® ~~~~~~Completed pro,ects
CMuka loa                                                                                    Project Spread over teveroo  or
-(*:J< n                                                                                            nglmerous locaions
:  .                                   ETHIOPIA    \         50MAE IA   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA 
SAUDI ARABIA
'OMAN
0                    100                   200                                         ;POLS
a     I         I                            ~~~~~~~~~ ~~YEME  PEP    x-
D.REP. OF
KILOMETERSARE
REP
-p has been prepared by The VWorld Ba,* ~s staff exdumvety for the convetwuce of  -~e
Ass and is exc&isvelyv for th effi'ena use of The Wand Bank and Ilthe  mkVeaoal,
Cm"oraacn The den uimnuton used and Use bounmfanes shamn on thus map do not  *DJIBOUTI  !(~~Ae
nthe pa of ThWo ilank a,s tme Marmalional Func aprxatio  anyudmetr
sgm l satu of any ento,dy or any endsrsemet or aceptance of such boutdflis.
510                ~~~ETHIOPIA   \.       SOMALIA
MAY 1985



I



