                                          Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 28544-BR




                            PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                       PROPOSEDADAPTABLEPROGRAMLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$572.2MILLION

                                            TO THE

                           FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                             FORA

                                  BOLSAFAMfLIA PROJECT

      INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHEBOLSAFAMfLIAPROGRAM

                                          May 25,2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                 (Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch23, 2004)
                                 Currency Unit = Real
                                       Real 2,95 = US$1

                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1         - December31

                                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable ProgramLending
CCT        ConditionalCashTransfer
CEF        CaixaEconBmicaFederal
CFAA       CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CMC        Core ManagementCommittee
CPAR       CountryProcurementAssessment Report
DFID       DepartmentFor InternationalDevelopment
EBC        ElectronicBenefit Card
FMRs       FinancialMonitoring Reports
FMS        FinancialManagementSystem
FUNAI      FundaqiIoNacional do Indio
GPN        GeneralProcurementNotice
IBGE       Instituto Brasileiro de Geografiae Estatistica
ICB        InternationalCompetitiveBidding
ICCN       Incentivo ao Combate&s CarenciasNutricionais
IFPRI      InternationalFoodPolicy ResearchInstitute
INSS       Instituto Social do Serviqo Social
IPDP       Indigenous People's DevelopmentPlan
IPEA       Instituto de PesquisaEconBmicaAplicada
LCS        Least-Cost Selection
M A S      Ministry of SocialAssistance
MDG        Millennium Development Goals
MDS        Ministkrio do DesenvolvimentoSocial e Combateti Fome
MEC        MinisteriodaEducaqb e Cultura
MESA       ExtraordinaryMinistry for FoodSecurity
MS         Ministtrio da Saude (Health)
NCB        National CompetitiveBidding
NIS        Numerode Identificaqb Social -Social IdentlJicationNumber
PNAD       PesquisaNacional por Amostra de Domicilios
POF        Pesquisade OrqamentosFamiliares
PPA        ProgramaPlurianual
PSRL       Public SectorReform Loan
QCBS       Quality and Cost-BasedSelection
SEAIN      Secretariade Assuntos Intemacionais
SEPPIR     Ministry of Policiesto PromoteRacialEquality
SFC        SecretariaFederalde Controle
SIAFI      SistemaIntegradode Administraqllo Financeira
SOE        Statements ofExpenditure
SOF        Source of Funds
SOT        Statements ofTransfers
SENARC     SecretariaNacional de RendadaCidadania       - SecretariatforCitizen Income
STN        Secretariado TesouroNacional
SWAP       Sector-wideApproach
TCU        Tribunal de ContasdaUniZLo
VIGISUS    Disease Surveillance andControl Project

                                     Vice President:                David de Ferranti
                     Country ManagerDirector:                       Vinod Thomas
                                     Sector Director:               Ana-Maria Arriagada
                                    Sector Manager:                 HelenaRibe
                                       Sector Leader:               Maria Madalenados Santos
                                 Task Team Leader:                  Kathy A. Lindert

                                                                                             FOR                                 USEONLY

                                                                      BRAZIL
                                                      First BolsaFamiliaProject

                                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                      Page

       A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE.....................................................................                                         1
         1.  Country.and sector issues....................................................................................................              1
         2.  Rationale for World Bank involvement..............................................................................                         3
         3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                               4

       B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION..................................................................................................... 4
         1.  Lending instrument. Programobjective andPhases...........................................................                                  4
         2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                             8
         3.  Project components.............................................................................................................            9
         4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                              12
         5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection............................................................                             14

       c. IMPLEMENTATION...........................................................................................................                    14
         1.   Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                            14
         2.   Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results................................................................                            15
         3.   Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
                    *    . .                                                                                                                           15
         4.   Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                         17
         5.   Loan conditions and covenants.........................................................................................                   18

       D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY...................................................................................................                         19
         1.   Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                    19
         2. Technical ...........................................................................................................................      20
         3.   Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 20
         4.   Social.................................................................................................................................  21
         5.   Environment......................................................................................................................        22
         6.   Safeguard policies............................................................................................................. 22
         7.   Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                    22

        Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background................................................................                              23

        Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank andor other Agencies..........................                                            35

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                    .
without World Bank authorization                           .

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring..............................................................................                  36
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description.........................................................................................           39

Annex 5: Project Costs.................................................................................................................. 64

Annex 6: Institutional and ImplementationArrangements...........................................................                         65
Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements ............................................                                  69

Annex 8: Procurement..................................................................................................................   77

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................................                83

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues...............................................................................................          90

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision...........................................................................                 98

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File...................................................................................                100

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits ................................................................................                 101

Annex 14: Country at a Glance...................................................................................................         105

Annex 15: Letter of Development Policy...................................................................................                107




                                                                ..
                                                                11

                                                    BRAZIL

                                     BR BOLSA FAMILIA 1ST APL

                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                                 LCSHS-DPT

Date: May 25, 2004                                        Team Leader: Kathy A. Lindert
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                            Sectors: Other social services (60%);Health
Sector Manger/Director: Helena G. Ribe                    (20%); Primary education (20%)
                                                          Themes: Other social protection and risk
                                                          management (P);Other human development
                                                          (P)
Project ID: P087713                                       Environmental screening category: C
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan                Safeguard screening category: Limited impact
                                         Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank Loan Amount (US$m.):1 572.2
Proposed terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
                                         Financing Plan (US$m)
             Source                               Local                       Foreign                 Total
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC                     6187.4 (of which the IBRD             7.5 (all of which         6194.9
OF BRAZIL &                            loan will reimburse 551.5 in     comprises part of the

INTERNATIONAL BANK                     expenditures for conditional   IBRD loan providing 1.8
                                         cash transfers under the      for technical assistance
FOR RECONSTRUCTION                      BFP and provide 13.4 for       and project management
AND DEVELOPMENT1                         technical assistance and       and 5.7 as capitalization
                                          project management)            of the front-end fee)
Borrower:
Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Social Development and Eradication of Hunger
Address: Ministério de Desenvolvimento Social e Combate à Fome
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco C. Brasília, DF, Brazil, CEP. 70.058-900
Tel: (55-61) 313-1630
                              Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
IBRD Fiscal Year          2005       2006         2007
      Annual                 168       227.8       176.4
   Cumulative                168       395.8       572.2
Project implementation period: 2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/2004
Expected closing date: 12/31/2006

1The total IBRD loan is US$572.2 million. The BFP conditional cash transfers to beneficiaries (grants) to be
reimbursed by the loan are funded with government resources that are largely earmarked for that purpose.

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                               [ ]Yes [X] No

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                               [ ]Yes [ ] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                [ ]Yes [ ] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                               [X]Yes [ ] No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                               [X]Yes [ ] No

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3

The broad objectives of the BFP are to reduce poverty and inequality and promote human capital
investments among poor families through the provision of direct monetary transfers to poor families and
incentives for investing in human capital. As a Sector-Wide Approach, World Bank assistance would
broadly support these same objectives. As the World Bank's financial contribution is relatively small
(US$572.2 million, or 9.3% of total conditional cash transfers under the BFP), it would be most accurate
to state that overall reduction of poverty and inequality is the ultimate objective of the Bank's assistance
under the proposed project. The proposed project would seek to strengthen the BFP's ability to achieve
these broader objectives of reducing poverty and inequality and promoting human capital development by
supporting: (a) a consolidation of conditional cash transfer programs and reductions in gaps and
duplications in coverage; (b) a strengthening of the system for identifying the target population; (c) the
development of a monitoring and evaluation system for the BFP; and (d) a strengthening of the basic
institutional functioning of the program.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4

The proposed project will include 5 components: (a) conditional cash transfers (grants to beneficiaries);
(b) strengthening the system for identifying the target population; (c) the development of a monitoring
and evaluation system; (d) institutional strengthening; and (e) project management.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20).

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation:
None

Loan effectiveness:
1.       Effectiveness Conditions:
    · Adoption of an Operational Manual for the Project satisfactory to the World Bank, including:
         institutional arrangements; operational procedures (including a system for monitoring and
         verification of conditionalities, eligibility procedures); procurement and contracting procedures,
         sample standard bidding documents and filing instructions (including for QCBS and NCB);
         disbursement and financial management procedures, including template FMRs; auditing

        procedures; and supervision, project administration, monitoring and progress reports, evaluation
        plans; and Performance Indicators.
   · MDS will appoint for the PIU two procurement specialists, a financial manager and              two
        accountants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the World Bank.
   · Draft Terms of Reference for audits approved by the World Bank.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:

1. Milestones for moving from 8% to 9% disbursement percentage for Component 1 (reimbursing against
SOTs) ("Stage 2 milestones" from Table 2):
   · New Cadastro Único questionnaires developed
   · The instruments for implementation of eligibility criteria for BF beneficiaries revised
   · Normative acts and operational guidelines for the Cadastro Único published on MDS webpage
   · Terms of reference for design of MIS for BFP prepared
   · Inventory of existing inter-governmental partnerships for BFP completed
   · Terms of reference for Quality Control Reviews developed
   · Terms of reference for baseline beneficiary survey prepared
   · Matrix of key functional and institutional responsibilities for BFP published
   · Beneficiary information booklets (cadernetas) designed

2.      Milestones for moving from 9% to 11% disbursement percentage for Component 1 (reimbursing
against SOTs) ("Stage 3 milestones"):
   · Data collection strategy designed and piloted
   · All detectable duplications in the Cadastro Único database eliminated
   · Cadastro Único users (MDS and 30% of municipalities) with access to Cadastro Único data
   · Adequate Management Information System (MIS) for BFP developed and operational
   · Quality Control Reviews for Bolsa Família processes developed and piloted in at least 10
        municipalities
   · Baseline beneficiary survey developed and piloted in at least 10 municipalities
   · System for verifying human capital conditionalities developed, piloted in at least 5 municipalities
   · Beneficiary information booklets (cadernetas) distributed

3.      Covenant:
   · The Borrower shall carry out the IPDP.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryand sector issues

Brazil's Government is committed to realizing the country's large potential for welfare improvements
through simultaneous actions on the economic and social fronts. Deeper social progress is essential to
improve the quality o f life o f the least advantaged groups. The importance of achieving visible and rapid
social gains while maintaining economic stability is further highlightedby the ambitions, highexpectations,
and hopes that rest on this particular administration.        Rapid achievements on the social side would
consolidate broader support for economic responsibility and difficult reforms, thus strengthening the
foundations for growth and for even faster social progressinthe future.

Despite impressive progress over the past decade, challenges remain. Education indicators still lag due to
Brazil's low starting point, particularly among the poor. Disparities remain in health care funding across
regions, and in utilization rates across socio-economic groups. Poverty has remained fairly constant since
the mid-1990s even if the poverty profile has changed, with the effects of the recent economic slowdown
being felt primarily in metropolitan areas in the Southeast. In fact, poverty levels in metropolitan areas
increased sharply, with the Southeast share of poverty increasing from 17-26% from 1998-2001. Poverty
incidence among youth also increased, and poverty rates continue to be especially high for those with low
levels of education, as well as for indigenous and afro-descendent (Quilombola) populations. Related to
these disparities, Brazil is still one o f the world's most unequal societies: with a Gini coefficient of 0.59 for
incomes, the richest 1% o f the population receives 10% o f total monetary income-the         same share as the
poorest 50%. Analysis shows that income inequality in Brazil stems primarily from unequal access to
education and a highskill premium for labor, along with a highly regressive pension system.

Higherquality and more equitable access to education (including secondary and tertiary education) are key
to reducing poverty and inequality inthe long run. However, the positive impacts of education reform take
time to materialize. Reforms to social assistanceprograms and a more equitable pensionsystemcan achieve
complementary results sooner and substantially reduce inequality and alleviate poverty.

ReformAgenda: Integrating Social AssistancePrograms. As part o f its dual focus of maintaining macro
stability while achieving more equitable growth and rapid social progress, the Government recently initiated
sweeping reforms to improve its social safety net. These reforms seek to integrate several federal programs,
including Bolsa Escola, Bolsa Alimentaqilo, Cartilo AlimentaqBo, and Auxilio-Ghs. Although each of these
programs maintained its own emphasis (promoting schooling, health care, food consumption, or
compensating for adjustment), they all provided cash transfers to roughly the same target group of poor
families.   Each program was managed with separate administrative structures, beneficiary selection
processes, and banking-sector contracts for payments issuance.              These separate structures created
inefficiencies and administrative duplications, resulted in considerable gaps and duplications in coverage,
andmissedimportant synergies fromjointly promotingeducation, health and nutrition.

Given these inefficiencies, the reforms seek to integrate these programs into a single, improved conditional
cash transfer (CCT) program called the "Bolsa Familia Program (BFP)."          The objectives of this safety net
integration reform include: (a) consolidating and rationalizing existing federal conditional cash transfer
programs; (b) promoting efficiency in the use of public resources; (c) improving the system for identifying
the target population; (d) leveraging synergies from jointly promoting education, health and nutrition
incentives; (e) strengthening monitoring and evaluation; and (f) leveraging opportunities to promote vertical
integration inthe social safety net between federal and sub-national programs.




                                                         1

These reforms, and the design of the new Bolsa Familia program, were supported by the First Integrated
HumanDevelopment Policy Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) and technically by the programmatic Brazil Social
Assistance (BRASA) ESW program(see below).

The BolsaFamiliaProgram. With this platform, the objectives ofthe new BFP itself include: (a) reducing
poverty and inequality today, through the provision of direct monetary transfers to poor families; and
(b) reducing poverty and inequality tomorrow, by providing incentives and conditions for investments in
human capital on behalf o f beneficiary families, and by linking beneficiary families to complementary
servicesthat could helpthem invest and grow out of poverty inthe future.

The BFP defines two target groups. The priority target group is those "extreme poor" families with per
capita monthly incomes below R$50 (US$17). The program also targets those "moderately poor" families
with per capita monthly incomes below R$100 (US$34)' but higher than R$50 (US$17). Payments are
preferably made to the mothers, as per the BolsaFamilia law.

The program will provide cash transfers ranging from R$15-95 (US$5-33)2 to target families. The exact
transfer amount will depend on income levels and household composition (see Annex 1). These amounts
were set with the goal o f minimizingthe number of people benefitingfrom the previous programs that could
either be excluded or face reduced benefits under the integrated program. Monthly transfers are expected to
average about R$71 (US$24) per beneficiary family, significantly higher than average benefits of about
R$24 (US$8) in total for the previous program^.^                     On a per capita basis, this represents about 19% of the
poverty line used by the World Bank, 12% of IPEA's poverty line, and 6% of the minimumwage. While
these transfers could create adverse incentives to work (causing, for example, a reduction intotal adult hours
worked), available evidence suggests they do not (see Annex 1).

The transfers would be conditional on all relevant family members complying with key humandevelopment
conditionalities (see Annex 1) as part o f an important policy shift towards focusing assistance on the family
(rather than on individuals).               Previous programs provided support and conditionalities only for some
individuals within the family. For example, under Bolsa Escola, school attendancewas only requiredfor up
to three school-aged kids, but not for any more than three children. The same was true for Bolsa
Alimentaqiio. In addition, synergies are expected from the simultaneous promotion of investments inhealth
and education within a family.                 In some areas, the supply of adequate or the availability of culturally
appropriate health and education services may be lacking. The BFP i s developing a policy to establish co-
responsibility requirements for beneficiary families inthese cases.

The interaction between targeted CCT programs and the provision of more universal"supply-side'y services
for health and education is mutually complementary: (a) on the one hand, the provision o f quality health and
education services is clearly a crucial requirement for conditional transfers to work; as such, efforts are
being made to simultaneously invest in such services; (b) on the other hand, even if health and education
services were universally available, CCTs would be needed to help alleviate common demand-side
constraints (direct and indirect costs) that prevent poor households from taking up these services.
Investments inboththe BFP, and inthe supply and quality o f health and education services, are thus crucial
elements of a balanced humancapital development strategy. An inter-ministerial social committee has been
established to help ensure coordination among the social sector ministries (and the Ministry o f Education,

'Brazildoes   nothaveanofficial poverty line andresearch institutionsusedifferentpovertylines that leadto differentpovertynumbers. The poverty
line used in the World Bank`s Poverty Assessment is set at aroundR$80 per month (US$27) and is adjusted for each region using a regionalprice
index. This results in a nationalpoverty rate of 28.7%. IPEA's extremepoverty line was establishedat R$62, yielding an extreme poverty rate of
14.6%. PEA calculatesthe full poverty line as twice the extremepoverty line, or R$124, resulting in apovertyrate of 33.6%. This value is close to
that beingusedbythe Government intheir documents.
* US dollaramounts  are providedfor referenceonly, usingan exchangerateof 2.9.
  d'Avila Viana, Ana Luiza (February 2004). "Programa BolsaFamilia." Preparedfor the World Bank in preparationfor the Shang'hai ScalingUp
events.



                                                                       2

for example, has also established a special secretariat to focus on the issues of inclusion and diversity in
education, including coordinating links with the BFP).

In addition, an important policy emphasis for the BFP is to foster bridges between Bolsa Familia
beneficiaries and other complementary services so as to help promote their "emancipa@o" (development)
and to help them escape from poverty (porta de saida). Indeed, BolsaFamilia has opted notto establish rigid
time limits for beneficiaries, but rather to help reduce their dependency on social assistance by fostering
their development throughthese links(as discussed inAnnex 1).

Bolsa Familia is rapidly becoming one o f the Government's major social initiatives. It surpassed its target
o f 3.6 million families in its first three months of operation in 2003 (reaching 3.615). The program targets
coverage of 11.2 million families (or about 44 million people) by 2006, which will represent a significant
scaling up of social assistanceas compared with the (overlapping) coverage o f its predecessors.

Meetingthese targets will require a significant but managed increase in financing, reaching a total of R$31
billion (US$11.5 billion) over the PPA (multi-year plan) period from 2004-07. The planned budget is R$5.8
billion (about US$2 billion) for 2004, which i s already over R$1.5 billion higher than spending on the
separate programs in 2003, mainly due to the higher average benefits paid to Bolsa Familia beneficiaries as
compared to those on the previous programs. In terms of shares of total federal primary expenditures and
GDP, the program will rise from 1.1% o f primary expenditures in 2003 to 2.5% by 2006 and from 0.2% of
GDP in 2003 to 0.5% by 2006. This rise in spending needs will likely be offset by expected savings from
the recently-approved pension reforms, estimated at 0.4% o fGDP (or about R$8 billion) peryear duringthat
period. The shift in resources from regressive pensions to progressive conditional cash transfers under the
BFP i s an important part o fthe Government's strategy to reduce poverty and inequality inBrazil. Efficiency
gains will arise from mergingthe programs, and will also partially offset these higher costs (thus allowing
for greater coverage).

The program is also seeking better complementarity and a pooling o f resources with state and local
programs for expanded coverage to further expand the pool of available resources. This includes various
types of partnerships, including: (a) some that seek vertical integration with existing local bolsa-type
programs (that would allow for a pooling o f federal and local resources to either expand the number of
beneficiaries covered or increase the benefit levels); and/or (b) some that seek to link beneficiaries of the
BFP with complementary services (as discussed inAnnex 1).


2. Rationale for World Bankinvolvement

The proposed Project will support one of the Government's flagship social initiatives: the Bolsa Familia
Program. First, it would help the Brazilian authorities to carry out and improve the effectiveness and
efficiency o f the BFP over the course o f the project period, reducing overlaps and filling gaps in coverage.
Second, the World Bank loan would also help to ensure that the program receives priority and is protected
from possible budget cuts duringthe project period. Third, the proposed project would, at the same time,
contribute to the financing o f Brazil's critical development priorities overall. Fourth, the loan would
provide critical additionality intechnical design and implementation. The activities supported by the loanto
strengthen the system for identifying the target population, monitoring, evaluation, and institutional
arrangements seek to provide important value added with respect to the entire program. In addition,
performance incentives (see below) to pace disbursements against the productive activities of the BFP with
technical improvements to the program, as well as on-going World Bank involvement in supervision
throughout the project period, would help augment the impact derived from the technical components. As
such, the World Bank's participation with a loan size that i s only a small share (less than 10%) of the BFP



                                                        3

over the project period would nonethelessallow for a scale of impact on the content and performance of the
entire program.

This first ambitious program-based sector investment operation (Program-Based SWAp) builds on lessons
learned in smaller SWAP components in previous projects, in Brazil and elsewhere. It also paves the way
for the use o f SWAps in Brazil, as set out in the FY04-07 CAS, in support o f high priority government
programs where similar Bank policy and technical additionality can have a strategic and catalytic impact on
a sector or large program.

The proposed project will draw on the significant technical assistance that the World Bank has been
providing to the Government for the conceptualization and design of these reforms since March 2003,
following discussions between President Lula and President Wolfensohn. This support has been provided
underthe umbrella of the Brazil Social Assistance Program (BRASA,EW-P078828-ESW), a programmatic
ESW/AAA program, including assistance on the overall design of an integrated program, issues pertaining
to the system for identifying and selecting beneficiaries, and monitoring and evaluationo fthe program.

The proposed project would also build on and complement the on-going PSRL program in the Human
Development (HD) sectors, which emphasizes actions to enhance equity, improve the quality and efficiency
of social programs, and increase accountability in the social sectors. It will also entail significant synergies
with the proposed HDTechnical Assistance Loan (TAL), which would assistthe Government indeveloping
institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies. Specifically, the proposed
TAL would provide support to the BrazilianInstitute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) to strengthentheir
household survey system for the purposes of monitoring and evaluating social policy, including the
generation o f data that would be highly relevant for monitoring and evaluatingthe performance of the BFP.
The TAL would also support a strengthening of monitoring and evaluation in education and health, which
entails valuable inter-sectoral linkages for the BFP.

More generally, the World Bank has acquired considerable technical expertise around the world in
strengthening targeting systems, developing monitoring and evaluation systems for conditional cash
transfers, and in promoting the types o f institutional innovations envisaged for the BFP. The Bank team
consistsof specialists who bringconsiderable international experience ineach of these areas.


3. Higherlevelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

The proposed project is at the center of one of the core pillars of the Bank's CAS - achieving a more
equitable Brazil- and is closely aligned with corporate priorities of achieving the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). The BFP will directly contribute to the reduction of poverty (MDG 1) and inequality inthe
short- and long-term. Incoordination with other government programs, many of which are Bank supported,
it will also contribute to reducing malnutrition (MDG l),   achieving universal education (MDG 2), reducing
child mortality (MDG 4), and improving maternal health (MDGS) through the demand-side incentives it
provides for investments ineducation, nutrition and health (for pregnant women andyoung children).


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument,ProgramobjectiveandPhases

The project will adopt three key features interms of the lending instrument: (a) a programmatic approach;
(b) a Program-Based Sector-wide Approach (SWAp); and (c) mechanisms to pace disbursements against
conditional cash transfers under the BFP (Component 1) in line with technical improvements. These three


                                                       4

features will help foster an effective link between the implementation of the BFP while helping strengthen
the program through crucial technical assistance.

ProgrammaticApproach (APL). The World Bank proposesto support the Bolsa Familia Program (BFP)
with a programmatic series o f operations (Adaptable Programmatic Lending, APL). This programmatic
approach would allow for a long-term, on-going partnership between the Government and the World Bank
on one o f the Government's main flagship social programs (see Annex 15).          It would also permit a
deepening of the technical strengthening of the program over time. The overall development objectives of
this multi-phased program would be to strengthen the BFP's ability to reduce poverty and inequality by
providing poor families with income transfers and incentives to invest inthe human capital of their children.
With these overall objectives, the programmatic series of operations would be divided into two phases:

    0   Phase 1 (mid-2004 to end-2006). This first project (with a proposed loan of US$572.2 million)
        would cover the transition phase, focusing on consolidating the four main conditional cash transfer
        schemes and improving the basic architecture of the BFP. As discussed below, the main objectives
        o f this phase include strengthening the program's effectiveness in reducing poverty and inequality
        and promoting human capital development by: (a) consolidating conditional cash transfer programs
        and reducing gaps and duplications in coverage; (b) improving the system for identifyingthe target
        population; (c) developing a monitoring and evaluation system for the BFP; and (d) strengthening
        the basic institutionalfunctioning ofthe BFP.

    0   Phase2 (2007-08). The secondproject (with a proposed loan o fUS$520.2 million or higher) would
        buildon these foundations to further consolidate the safety net and deepen technical improvements
        aiming to transform Brazil's safety net in general and the BFP in particular into a modern social
        assistance and social service system. Such improvements would depend on the institutional and
        reform opportunities that arise in Phase 1, but could include: (a) supporting additional efforts to
        consolidate the safety net (for example with possible further integration of other transfer programs
        into the BFP); (b) further improvements in the system for identifying the target population; (c) on-
        going contributions to monitoring and evaluation (including the implementation of the follow-up
        beneficiary survey); (d) further improvements in service delivery, including possible mainstreaming
        o f approaches to link BF beneficiaries to complementary services and develop tailored
        empowerment (emancipaqh) strategies for improving their self-reliance.

The key achievements o f the first phase - which would also constitute trigger indicators for moving to the
secondphase -are described inTable 1below.




                                                      5

IConsolidatingConditionalCash     e Coverageof at least2/3 of extremepoorfamilies by program
 Transfers                        e Pre-reformtransfer programseliminated(former beneficiarieseither convertedto
                                    BolsaFamiliaor droppedfrom programs)
 Strengtheningof System for         CadastroquestionnaireandBF eligibility criteriarevisedandpublished
 Identifyingthe Target Population   Expansionandrecertificationdata collectionstrategy designedandimplemented
                                    All detectableduplicationsinthe CadastroUnico databaseeliminated
                                  e Periodicityfor updatingCadastroUnico andrecertifyingBolsaFamiliabeneficiaries
                                    formally established
                                    Recertificationprocesscommencedinat least25% of municipalities
                                  e CadastroUnico users (MDSandat least 50% of municipalities)with accessto data
 Developingmonitoringand            MISfor BFPfully operationalandgeneratingadequatereports
 evaluation system                e Results of at leastone roundof Quality Control Reviews for BolsaFamiliaprogram
                                    published
                                    Baselinebeneficiarysurvey conducted
 InstitutionalStrengthening         Matrix of key functionaland institutionalresponsibilitiesfor BFPpublished
                                    Strategy for operatingprograminremoteareas developed
                                    Beneficiaryinformationbooklets (cadernetas) designed, publishedanddistributed
                                    Systemfor verifying humancapitalconditionalitiesoperating




 Interms of financingmechanisms, Component 1ofthe proposedloanwould reimburse the Governmentfor
 a small share (less than 10%) of productiveexpenditures on conditionalcash transfers made underthe BFP,
 which are funded with government resources that are largely earmarked for that purpose. The Government
 i s pursuingfiscal reforms to address this situationand the World Bank i s supportingsuch measuresthrough
 the fiscal policy dialogue and relatedESW and lendingprogram (as discussed in the CAS). The Brazilian
 Government requestedthat the World Bank loan, in support of Component 1, would reimburse a share of
 these expenses. Giventhe current earmarkingofrevenuesinBrazil, government revenueswouldbeapplied
 to make the payments for expenditures under Component 1, and the Bank would then reimburse
 expenditures as specified in the legal agreement. The Bank funds disbursed would be part of the regular
 federal budget financing, with the Bank as one of the sources of overall finds, which are spent consistent
 with federal budget policies and procedures. The Governmenthas indicatedto the Bank its intentionto use
 the increased funds available for development priorities. Annual federal budgets are approved by the
 BrazilianFederal Congress and are derived from the budget plan (LDO) and the Multi-Year Plan (PPA),
 which is a transparent four-year framework for federal expenditures, developed by the Brazilianauthorities
 with the participationof civil society, the World Bank, and other development partners. The Government
 engageswith the Bank inadiscussion ofthe development expenditures.

 Aside from the Bank's financial contribution, the loan would provide critical additionality in technical
 design and implementation. As discussed below, the Government has requested that the World Bank
 provide technical assistance and partneringto support key improvements in its system for identifyingthe
 target population, monitoring and evaluation, and institutionalreforms under three technical components.
 Performanceincentives (see below) to pace disbursements against the productiveactivities ofthe BFP with
 technical improvements to the program, as well as on-going World Bank involvement in supervision
 throughout the project period, would help augment the impact derived from the technical components.



                                                            6

Hence while the Bank's financial participation would represent only a small share of the program over the
project period, its support seeks to strengthenthe scale and performance o f the entire BFP. The financing
arrangements for these three technical components (and for a small component to support project
management) would conform to traditional lending arrangements for technical assistance. This would
ensure an on-going close association of the Ministry of Social Development and the World Bank for the
implementation o fthe technical assistanceactivities.

PacingDisbursementswith TechnicalImprovements

The proposed project would also build in certain mechanisms to pace disbursements in-linewith technical
improvements. While the total amount o f financing for Component 1 (US551.5 million) would represent
8.9% of the total cash transfers budget for the BFP duringthe project period, disbursements and cost-sharing
percentages would be linked to key milestones of technical improvements. Specifically, loan proceeds for
this component would be made with monthly disbursement percentages that will increase as the actions
listed in Table 2 are met. The disbursements will start at the monthly rate of 8%, will be increasedto 9%
when the stage 2 milestones in Table 2 have been met; and will be increased to 11% when the stage 3
milestones inTable 2 have been met.

The pacing of disbursements for Component 1 with technical improvements to the program (supported by
Components 2-4) has several objectives. First, it would allow the World Bank to partner with the BFP in a
pragmatic way, recognizing the important role ofthe program inthe short-run and also the needfor technical
improvements inthe program's systems. Second, it would promote stronger synergies between support o f
program implementation and on-going safety net consolidation (Component 1) and the specific support to
technical activities to strengthen the basic architecture of the program (Technical Components). Third, it
would create incentives for the program implementing agency to achieve, or exceed, the key milestones for
systems improvements and for the Finance and Planning ministries to ensure support for these crucial
technical activities (e.g., if milestones are reached, the loan's financing percentage would increase and
disbursementswould accelerate).

Assuming that the stage 2 and 3 milestones are met by end 2004 and end 2005 respectively, the pace of
disbursements is such that loan proceeds for Component 1 would be disbursed by end 2006, as indicated in
Table 4 below. In the unlikely event that stage 2 milestones are not met, disbursements would continue to
be made at a 8% disbursement percentage; similarly, in the event that stage 3 milestones are not met (but
stage 2 milestones have been met), disbursements will be made at a 9% disbursement percentage. If
disbursementsremain at either o f these lower disbursement percentages, they would continue into 2007. The
full level of support would still bejustified sincethe pre-reform CCT programs (such as Bolsa Escola and
Bolsa Alimentagiio) - and the newly created BFP that replaces them - are among the top third of social
assistance programs in developing countries and would thus be worthy o f support even under the unlikely
worst-case scenario in which the proposed improvements are not implemented. Moreover, the risks of this
scenario materializing are very unlikely as the milestones were designed to serve as reasonable indicators of
timely progress in strengthening the systems of the BFP and they have the full commitment of the Ministry
of Social Development (MDS). In addition, since the triggers for moving to the second-phase APL project
represent cumulative progress with technical improvements encompassed by the two sets of milestones, the
potential withdrawal o f the second-phase APL operation provides a sufficient disincentive for the unlikely
scenarioof non-compliance.




                                                       7

                          Table 2 -PERFORMANCE MILESTOP S (Disbursement Conditions)
                             STAGE 2 MILESTONES                               STAGE 3 MILESTONES
                    (indicative target date: by December 2004)       (indicative target date: by December 2005)
Strengthening    0    New CadastroUnico questionnaires               Datacollectionstrategy designedandpiloted
of Systemfor          developed                                      All detectableduplicationsinthe CadastroUnico
Identifying the        Instrumentsfor implementingthe eligibility    databaseeliminated
Target                criteriafor BF beneficiariesrevised            CadastroUnicousers (MDS and30% of
Population            Normativeact; and operationalguidelines for    municipalities)with access to CadastroUnico
                      the CadastroUnico publishedon MDS              data
                      webpage
Developing            Terms ofreference for designof MISfor the      Adeauate ManagementInformationSystem(MIS)
monitoring and                                                                                                    .  I
                      BFP prepared                                   for BFP developedandoperational
evaluation            Inventoryof existinginter-governmental         Quality Control Reviews for BolsaFamilia
system                partnershipsfor BFP completed                  processesdevelopedandpilotedinat least 10
                      Terms of reference for Quality Control         municipalities
                      Reviews developed                              Baselinebeneficiary survey developedandpiloted
                 0    Terms of reference for baselinebeneficiary     in at least 10municipalities
                      survey prepared
Institutional    0    Matrix ofkey functional and institutional      Systemfor verifying humancapital
Strengthening         responsibilitiesfor BFPpublishedonMDS          conditionalitiesdeveloped, piloted in at least 5
                      webpage                                        municipalities
                 0    Beneficiaryinformation booklets                Beneficiaryinformationbooklets(cudernetus)
                      (cudernetus) designed                          distributed                                        J



2. Project development objective and key indicators

As discussed elsewhere, the broad objectives of the BFP are to reduce poverty and inequality and promote
human capital investments among poor families through the provision o f direct monetary transfers to poor
families and incentives for investing in human capital. As a Sector-Wide Approach, World Bank assistance
would broadly support these same objectives. As the World Bank's financial contribution is relatively small
(US$572.2 million, or 9.3% of total conditional cash transfers under the BFP), it would be most accurate to
state that overall reduction o f poverty and inequality is the ultimate objective o f the Bank's assistanceunder
the proposed project. The proposed project would seek to strengthen the BFP's ability to achieve these
broader objectives of reducing poverty and inequality and promoting human capital development by
supporting: (a) a consolidationo f conditional cashtransfer programs and reductions ingaps and duplications
in coverage; (b) a strengthening ofthe systemfor identifyingthe target population; (c) the development of a
monitoring and evaluation system for the BFP; and (d) a strengthening o f the basic institutional hnctioning
of the program. Key performance indicators for tracking progress towards these objectives are listed in
Table 3 below.




                                                             8

    Table 3 -Key Performance Indicators for Monitoring Progress Over Period Covered by Phase 1Project
                                                OUTOME INDICATORS
b At least2/3 ofextremepoorfamiliesreceivingBFincometransfers
b At least40% oftotaltransfersgoingto families inthe bottomquintile
b At least80%ofprimary-ageschool-agechildreninextremelypoor beneficiaryfamiliesattendingschool
b At least95% ofbeneficiarychildrenwith healthcards
                                       INTERMEDIATE RESULTSINDICATORS
P Pre-reformprogramseliminated(former beneficiarieseither convertedto BolsaFamiliaor droppedfrom programs)
b TransactionscoFtsfor transfer paymentsreduced
b NewCadastroUnicoquestionnairesdevelopedandprinted
b Expansionandrecertificationdatacollectionstrategydesignedandoperational
b EliminationofalldetectableduplicationsintheCadastroUnicodatabase
b Periodicityfor updatingCadastroUnicoandrecertifyingBolsaFamiliabeneficiariesformally established
9 CadastroUnicousers (MDS andat least50% ofmunicipalities)with accessto data
b AdequateMISdevelopedandoperating
9 Qualitycontrolsurvey for BFprocessesimplemented
b Baselinebeneficiarysurveyconducted
b Matrix ofkey functionalandinstitutionalresponsibilitiespublished
b Strategyfor operatingprograminremoteareas developed
b Beneficiaryinformationbooklets(cudernetus) designed, publishedanddistributed
b Systemfor monitoringhumancapitalconditionalitiesoperating
b Trainingprovidedto at least 1/2ofmunicipalitiesfor their roleinimplementingBFprogram

3. Project components

The proposed first phase APL project (mid-2004 to end-2006) would consist of five components: one
component that would reimburse the
Government      for  expenditures      on
conditional cash transfers under the
BFP;     three     mutually-reinforcing
technical components to help improve
the quality and basic architecture of
the program; and a small component
for project management.

ComDonent 1: Conditional Cash
Transfers      (Grants)       (US$6,174
million in project costs; US$551.5           4. Institutional         I   0.5        1.3         1.o       2.8

million in loan financing).          This                                 0.2   I    0.3         0.3       0.8
component would provide support to           5. ProjectManagement
                                             FrontEndFee:             I/  5.7        0.0         0.0       5.7
the Government in consolidating and
rationalizing      conditional       cash
transfers, and in reducing duplications
and gaps in coverage o f the BFP, as
part of a broader and balanced strategy for economic and human capital development. For this component,
the World Bank would reimburse the Treasury a share of the expenses on conditional cash transfers made
under the BFP duringthe project period. The category of disbursements would be cash transfers (BF grant
transfers). Disbursement percentages would increase as key technical improvements ((`milestones") are
made, as discussed above.          (See Annex 7 for details on financial management and disbursement
arrangements).

Component 2: Strengtheningthe System for Identifying the Target Population (US$4.4 million in
project costs including contingencies). This component would provide assistance to improve the
mechanisms used to identify the target population of the BFP, which constitute a key element of the basic



                                                             9

architecture of the program. With a more accurate system for identifyingthe target population, the program
will achieve better redistributive efficiency, with a higher share of its resources going to the poor, and will
be able to cover a larger share o f the poor. It will thus serve as a more efficient instrument for reducing
poverty and inequality inBrazil.

As with its predecessors (pre-reform programs), the BFP selects beneficiaries from a national database of
potentially poor households called the "Cadastro Unico." While the construction o f the Cadastro Unico
sought to integrate household registries across the (previous) multiple programs in a very short period of
time, there are several aspects of the system that could be improved. To do this, Component 2 of the
proposed project will support activities to strengthen the system for identifyingthe target population of the
BFP and overhaul the Cadastro Unico system inseveral key areas: (a) improving the strategic framework for
the overall system including conducting a study to identify other programs that could potentially use the
Cadastro for eligibility determination; (b) revising the eligibility criteria for the BFP and the Cadastro
questionnaire and data collection strategy, taking into account different local realities reflecting urban vs.
rural settings (including population and poverty density) and diverse cultural, ethnic and racial
characteristics o f the populations; (c) reducing administrative errors in the Cadastro Unico; and
(d) strengthening the technical and technological capacity o f the Cadastro Unit in MDS to monitor, verify
and use the Cadastro Unico, as well as the capacity o f municipalities and other potential cooperating
institutions for carrying out data collection and beneficiary selection. Specific activities to be financed are
listed and described inAnnex 4.

Interms of general timing of activities and results of this component, most activities to be supported under
the component assume that preparatory activities would be undertaken in 2004 and early 2005, so as to
allow for the rolling out of the new Cadastro system in2005-06. This would mirror the upcoming needs of
the BFP in terms of its planned large-scale expansion in 2005-06 as well as the need to recertify existing
households in the Cadastro in that period (since by that time, their information would have expired). As
discussed above, improvements to the Cadastro Unico - including designing and printing the new
questionnaires, revising and publishing the new BFP eligibility criteria, designing an improved data
collection strategy for expansion and recertification, eliminating all detectable duplications in the Cadastro
database, and granting access for MDS and municipalities to Cadastro Unico data - would constitute
performance milestones for increasingthe disbursement percentage for Component 1, as well as triggers for
moving to Phase 2 o f the proposed APL program as they would signal key achievements in strengthening
the basic architecture ofthe program.

Component 3: Developing a Monitoring and Evaluation System (US$7.0 million in project costs
includingcontingencies). This component would support the design and implementation of a monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system. Such a systemwould constitute a key element o f the basic architecture of the
program, and one that the Government has made a top priority since the launching o f the BFP. To support
this, Component 3 of the proposed project will support: (a) the development of a strategy for the overall
M&Esystem and support for capacity buildinginMDS inthis area; (b) the strengthening ofBolsaFamilia's
management information system (MIS) which would provide up-to-date information on program activities
and outputs; (c) the development o f instruments to monitor program processes to provide feedback on the
quality of service delivery and program implementation and to detect problems so that they can be corrected
early, including (i)  inter-government processes; (ii)   annual Quality Control Reviews to monitor BFP
processes (including verification of health and education conditionalities, the selection of beneficiaries, and
payments); and (iii) support for mechanisms for citizen oversight ("social control") respecting socio-cultural
and ethnic specificities of prospective beneficiaries; and (d) the development, execution, and analysis of
qualitative instruments and quantitative surveys to monitor and evaluate key outcomes and the impact o f the
program at both the "territorial" (municipal and sub-municipal) and family levels. Specific activities to be
financed are listed and described inAnnex 4.




                                                      10

Since the design and operation of a solid monitoring and evaluation system constitutes a key element of the
basic architecture of the BFP, such improvements would constitute performance milestones for increasing
the disbursement shares for Component 1,and triggers for movingto Phase 2 ofthe proposed APL program,
as noted above.

Component 4: InstitutionalStrengthening (US3.2 million in project costs includingcontingencies).
This component would support the strengthening of the basic institutional functioning of the BFP in terms
Of:


    0    Strengthening of the operational institutional framework, including the legal architecture of the
         program (developing needed regulumentos, operational guidelines, norms, etc. for the BFP and the
        CadastroUnico);

    0    Strengthening program management, including: (a) clarifying and strengthening institutional roles
        for the basic functioning o f the program itself, including developing a matrix o f responsibilities,
        clarifying information flows for the Cadastro Unico, and developing and implementing a system for
        verifying human capital conditionalities; (b) providing training and technical assistance on the
        system for verifying human capital conditionalities; (c) developing a strategy for operating the
        program in remote areas; (d) defining possible mechanisms for inter-governmental partnerships to
        help inexpanding the program, by increasing the value o f benefits, and/or expanding coverage, and
         linking BFP beneficiaries to complementary services; and (e) developing an inter-municipal
         information network to share good practices, experiences with implementing conditional cash
        transfers and the BF Programacross municipalities;

    0   Developing a solid communications and dissemination strategy with consideration o f culturally- and
        ethnically diverse publics, including: (i) establishinga "hotline" number with trained operators to
        answer questions on the program and the Cadastro Unico (for the general public, beneficiaries, other
        officials, etc.); and (ii)designing, printingand disseminating information booklets (cadernetus) for
        beneficiaries (including information about benefits and conditionalities); and

    0   Identifying and evaluating social welfare innovations in "empowerment"              and "bridging"
        approaches. This sub-component would support the identification and evaluation of initiatives to
        help BFP beneficiaries to develop tailored empowerment strategies ("emuncipuqi?oyystrategies) and
        to gain access to complementary programs and services (bridging services). These initiatives could
        involve various approaches, including: (a) social worker support to help beneficiaries develop these
        empowerment (emuncipuqiio) strategies and bridging access to complementary services; and/or
        (b) the development o f "one-stop shops" where beneficiaries can gain access to information about a
        variety of social services (including the BFP). Some similar experiences have also been developed
        at the local level in Brazil and in other countries.      The sub-component would thus support:
        (a) international study tours and exchanges to share information on these various "empowerment"
        and "bridging" approaches; (b) consultancies and workshops to identify and evaluate such
        approaches; and (c) training and capacity building for beneficiaries, trainers (multiplicadores) and
        program managers(gestores).

Since strengthening the basic institutional functioning o f the BFP constitutes a key element of the basic
architecture of the program, such improvements would constitute performance milestones for increasing the
disbursement shares for Component 1, and triggers for moving to Phase 2 o f the proposed APL program, as
noted above. Annex 4 provides additional details on the component.

Component 5: Project Management (US$0.7 million in project costs including contingencies). The
project will support a strengtheningo f the implementation capacity of MDS. To provide such support, the


                                                      11

proposed Project will finance incrementalcosts related to management and supervision of Project activities.
These costs include consultants that would support strategic, technical and operational aspects of the project,
as well as equipment and travel expenses. Annexes 4 and 6 provide additional details.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

The choice of project design benefits from lessons learned inBrazil's relatively long and rich history with
conditional cash transfers (both at the federal and at the local levels) and on international experience. As
discussed above, it also builds on the findings of an on-going programmatic sector study (the BRASA),
particularly the in-depth work on safety net integration reforms and targeting. Among the main lessons
learnedfrom these experiences are:

(a) Instrument. Experience to date -albeit still very limited-reveals that as an approach, SWAps offer an
    enormous opportunity for leveraging up the Bank's own financial contribution to provide impact on an
    entire sectoral program (rather than just at the project level). By relying on the Borrower's fiduciary
    framework (in this case for financial management only), the SWAP approach is responsive to client
    requests for a streamlining o f Bank requirements by eliminating the need for maintaining parallel
    records and procedures only to satisfy the Bank's own requirements.           In addition, task manager
    experience with an ongoing SWAP in Brazil indicates that the end result of streamlining fiduciary
    systems and requirements i s that the Bank's supervision process becomes focused more on providing
    technical advice and addressing sectoral issues that may arise, as opposed to focusing on procedural
    requirementsthat are best handled by fiduciary specialists.

(b) Importanceof strong Borrowercommitment, ownership and leadership. There is no doubt that the
    BFP has both high-level and widespread commitment. Indeed, it is the Government's flagship social
    initiative. Support for the consolidation of conditional cash transfers as a way to build on previous
    successes and bring them to a new level of performance has been widespread, cutting across political
    parties, branches o f government (with strong executive support and rapid passage of the Bolsa Familia
    Law by the Congress), academic circles, civil society and even the media. It is generally believedthat
    such integration will improve the efficiency and equity o f these instruments. Internationally, providing
    conditional cash transfers to poor families has been shown to be an operationally feasible and politically
    acceptable approach to social assistance. Researchhas shown that concerns about cash subsidies being
    "assistentialist" can be overcome by: (a) linking the assistance to desirable behaviors such as sending
    children to school and for health care visits; and (b) giving the transfers to mothers whose decisions
    regarding the intra-household allocation of resources often favor children's nutrition, health and
    education. Both of these conditions are features o f the BFP. Other concerns about possible "welfare
    dependency" can be alleviated by efforts to link beneficiaries to other complementary servicesthat could
    help them "grow" out o f poverty (as will be developed under the BFP, with the support of the proposed
    project).

(c) Importanceof accurate selection of beneficiaries. Internationally, the impact of transfer programs on
    poverty and inequality has been considerably higher with an effective system for identifying and
    selecting beneficiaries.   As discussed above and in Annex 4, recent evaluations (including one
    conducted under the BRASA programmatic ESW) suggest that several aspects of Brazil's Cadastro
    Unico - the household registry from which Bolsa Familia beneficiaries are selected - should be
    improved. Given its importance as a critical feature of the basic architecture of the program, the
    proposed project will support key activities to strengthenthe system for identifyingthe target population
    of the BFP (and the Cadastro Unico system).




                                                       12

(d) Impact on educational attainment. Conditional cash transfer programs have improved educational
      indicators and outcomes. An ex-ante evaluation by Bourguignon, Ferreira and Leite (2003)4 found that
      Brazil's Bolsa Escola Program (one of the predecessorsto the BFP) significantly increasedthe share of
      children in school and decreased the share that were only working. Using similar methodologies,
      simulations in Annex 9 suggest that the BFP could significantly increase total educational attainment
      and reduce repetition rates. Mexico's PROGRESA program (a conditional cash transfer program now
      called Oportunidades) has had significant impacts in improving educational attainment of the poor,
      raising total years of schooling by an additional 0.66 years. It has also contributed to increasing
      enrollment and reducingrepetition and drop out rates.

(e) Impact on health and nutrition. Conditional cash transfer programs have also improved health and
      nutrition indicators, but care must be taken in avoiding the use o f anthropometric indicators for
      eligibility purposes. Mexico's PROGRESA program significantly improved nutrition and helped make
     young children more robust to illness. IFPRI's evaluation of the Bolsa AlimentaqBo Program (one of the
      predecessorsto the BFP) shows it had a significant impact on food consumption and dietary diversity.
     Nonetheless, despite these positive impacts, the program had a surprisingly negative impact on child
      growth. Since most o f the mothers selectedto participate inthe program were former beneficiaries of a
      program ("ICCN") that previously distributed milk and oil exclusively to underweight children, it is
      possible that beneficiary mothers assessed that the continued eligibility of their children would be
      negatively affected by their achieving normal weight. This kind o f strategic behavior had been widely
      reported by health workers monitoring ICCN beneficiaries. The IFPRI evaluation also found that the
     Bolsa AlimentaqBo program had a small positive effect on the growth o f children who had not
     previously benefited from the ICCN program.                          The implications o f these results underscore the
      importance o f not using anthropometric indicators for eligibility purposes and investing in significant
     public information campaigns to promote the positive messages of growth promotion. In fact, the BFP
      includes growth promotion as a condition of receiving benefits for very young children, and does not
     base eligibility on evidence o f malnutrition.

( f ) Empowerment strategies and bridging to complementary services.                                         International experience
      suggests that efforts to link ("bridge") beneficiaries o f transfer programs to other complementary
      services and to help them develop empowerment (emancipa@o)strategies can be an effective way to
     help them "grow" out o f poverty and reduce their dependence on social assistance. As discussed above
     and in Annex 4, the proposed project would support the identification and evaluation of these
      approaches.

(g) The need to establish a solid monitoring and evaluationsystem. Any new, large-scale social sector
     program needs to have a system to monitor program activities (MIS), implementation processes,
     beneficiary satisfaction and service delivery, and program outcomes and to evaluate program impact.
     Such a system would include formal information mechanisms (such as surveys and audits), but also
     citizen oversight mechanisms (social control) to promote transparency and accountability. As discussed
     above and in Annex 4, the proposed project supports the development o f such a system for the nascent
     BFP.

(h) Institutional and implementation capacity.                             Programs o f this nature require sophisticated
     administrative capacity. Although Bolsa Familia i s a new program operating under a new ministry, it
     builds on the foundations established by the pre-reform programs (e.g., maintaining the channeling of
     payments to beneficiaries in a fairly direct manner through Brazil's extensive banking system). In
     addition, many o f the staff involved in the Ministry o f Social Development in general and the BFP in

`Bourguignon, Franpois, Francisco H.G. Ferreira, and Phillippe G. Leite (2003). "Conditional Cash Transfers, Schooling, and Child Labor: Micro-
SimulatingBrazil's BolsaEscolaProgram." World Bank EconomicReview, Vol. 17.No. 2.



                                                                      13

   particular have extensive prior experience managing or working on the federal pre-reform programs or
   similar local CCT programs. Institutional arrangements are discussed in Annexes 1, 6, and 7. As
   discussed above and in Annex 4, the proposed project supports the strengthening of institutional
   capacity both at the federal and sub-national levels (via training, systems strengthening, consultancies,
   etc.).


5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection

The approachadoptedfor the proposedproject has many advantagesover other possible instruments:

   0   Programmaticvs. Single Operation. The programmatic APL approach allows for a long-term and
        on-going partnership between the Government and the World Bank to support Brazil's flagship
        social program;

   0   Investment vs. Adjustment Operation. The Government has requested the use of an investment
       operation rather than an adjustment instrument because it allows for a closer, continuous partnership
       to accompany on-going program implementation. Adjustment operations are more suitable for
        supporting policy reforms (such as the reforms that fostered the integration of CCT programs, as
        supported by the HD PSRL), but less appropriate for accompanying program strengthening and
        implementation on an on-going basis. The specific design o f the proposed investment operation -a
       programmatic SWAP that paces disbursements against the productive activities supported by the
       BFP with technical improvements to the program through performance incentives - would better
       meet the needs o fthe Brazilian Government and the BFP.

       Joint Package vs. Separate SWAP and TA Operations. Numerous synergies arise from
       combining technical and financial support in a single instrument, since (a) the technical would
       contribute to the on-going strengthening o f the program; (b) pacing disbursementswith progress on
       the technical aspects (performance-based disbursement incentives) would reinforce links between
       program implementation and technical improvements; and (c) the larger magnitude of financial
       support would help provide leverage for achieving the technical improvements supported by the
       project.   The combined package offers multiple opportunities for impact in terms of aligning
       substanceand incentives.

   0   Program-Based SWAP Approachvs. TraditionalInvestmentOperation. The use of a Program-
       Based SWAP approach instrument for the financing of the BFP is appropriate since: (a) it supports
       integrating the main CCT programs across the "sector" o f social assistance (comprehensive policy
       reforms); (b) the project will link World Bank disbursementsto a highpriority Government program
       (ownership); and (c) the instrument will reduce transactions costs associated with traditional
       investment lending. Through the Program-Based SWAP approach, the World Bank's participation
       with a loan size that is only a small share (less than 10%) o f the BFP over the project period would
       neverthelessallow for a scale o f impact on the content and performance o f the entire program.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutional and implementation arrangements

The Borrower will be the Federative Republic o f Brazil. The proposed project will be implemented by the
newly-created Ministry o f Social Development (MDS). MDS was created on January 23, 2004 with the



                                                      14

objective o f further integrating the management of Brazil's social programs (as part of a broader integration
strategy that also covered the integration of conditional cash transfer programs into the BFP). The MDS
integrated three previous entities, including the Extraordinary Ministry for Food Security (MESA), the
Ministry of Social Assistance (MAS), and the former Executive Secretariat for the Bolsa Familia Program
(which was previously under the Presidency).

The MDSstructure includes inter alia an Executive Secretariat(SECEX) underthe Minister,which oversees
two special departments, a Directorate o f Special Projects (DPE) and a Secretariat for Planning, Budget and
Procurement (SPOA), and which supervises the activities of five secretariats, including the Secretaria
Nacional de Renda de Cidadania (SENARC); a secretariat for other social assistance programs (e.g., BPC-
LOAS, PETI, Agente Jovem); a secretariat for food security; a secretariat for articula@o (policy); and a
secretariat for monitoring, evaluation and capacity building. The SENARC oversees the operations of the
Bolsa Familia Program. The BFP i s also guided by the decisions o f the President, supported by the
recommendations of management board (Comitf? Gestor do Programa Bolsa Familia), which is responsible
for policy coordination and promoting partnerships between the various sectors and levels of Government
and with civil society. Institutional arrangements for various functions of the program also involve a
number of other actors (see Annex 1).

To promote a mainstreaming of project activities and to contribute value added to the overall BFP, the
proposed project will build on the organizational and leadership structures of MDS. Specifically, it will be
headed by the Executive Secretary (SECEX) and managed by a Core Management Committee (CMC,
Nucleo de Gestrib), which will be comprised ofthe managersfrom the relevant unitsof MDS: SECEX, DPE,
SENARC, the Secretariat of Monitoring and Evaluation, and the head o f the PIU (see below). Functionally,
this Core Management Committee will be divided into two areas: a Technical Secretariat and a Project
ImplementationUnit(PIU). See Annex 6 for details.

2. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults

The Ministry of Social Development is committed to monitoring and evaluating results of the BFP. From
the outset of the program, the Government has prioritized the development o f a solid M&E system for the
program. Component 3 will support this priority (see above and inAnnex 4). The proposed Integrated HD
TAL will also support complementary efforts, such as the implementation o f the household budget survey
(POF) in2005, which will also provide relevant data for monitoring and evaluatingthe BFP.

Project results and outcomes will be monitored via on-going project supervision using a combination of
household survey and administrative data (see Annex 3). The pacing o f disbursements under Component 1
with technical improvements (milestones) also provides incentives for monitoring intermediate results
during project implementation.


3. Sustainability

Three factors shape the sustainability o f the BFP: Government commitment; the credibility and quality of
the program; and fiscal sustainability.

First, as discussed above, the BFP is Brazil's flagship social program and it plays a central role in the
Government's development strategy. Overall commitment to the BFP is extremely high, both in terms of
support from the highest levels o f government and in terms o f broad support in the different branches of
government (as evidenced, for example, by the rapid passage o fthe law establishing the program).




                                                     15

Second, while rapid expansion is aimed at fulfilling the high expectations attached to the program and the
need for quick results, investments in the quality of the program are also crucial for ensuring the
sustainability of the program. A solid system for accurately identifying the target population is the
foundation of the program's credibility. The proposed project seeks to strengthen this system (the Cadastro
Unico) under Component 2. Institutional strengthening - including a clarification and strengthening of the
institutional roles for core program functions (such as the system for identifying the target population and
the verification of conditionalities) and a solid communications strategy - is also central to improving and
maintaining the program's credibility. Component 4 will support efforts to strengthen these functions.
Quality control processes are also crucial for building credibility and providing program managers with
neededfeedback to identify and correct problems as they arise. The development of such processes will be
supported by Component 3. A solid impact evaluation can also promote sustainability of the program by
demonstrating the program's effectiveness and results. This has been the case for conditional cash transfer
programs in other countries where a solid demonstration and quantification o f positive outcomes has
resulted in the resilience o f programs across government administrations. Component 3 will support the
design and implementation of a baseline impact evaluation survey, which would then be followed up by an
evaluative survey inthe proposed secondAPL project.

Third, with respect to fiscal sustainability, the program is expected to increase in size and resource needs.
As shown in Table 5 below, the program is expected to reach 11.2 million families by the end of the project
period (2006), up from 3.6 million families at the start of 2004. A significant share of these beneficiaries
will be converted from existing pre-reform programs, so the marginal increase is smaller than if the
beneficiaries were entirely new. Nonetheless, the programwill require a significant but managed increase in
resources, from R$4.3 billion in 2003 (even less for the pre-reform programs in 2002) to R$9.4 billion by
2006. Interms of shares o f total federal primary expenditures and GDP, the program will rise from 1.1% of
primary expenditures in 2003 to 2.5% by 2006 and from 0.2% of GDP in2003 to 0.5% by 2006. This rise in
spending needs will likely be offset by expected savings from the recently-approved pension reforms,
estimated at 0.4% o f GDP (or about R$8 billion) per year duringthat period. The shift in resources from
regressive pensions to progressive conditional cash transfers under the BFP is an important part of the
Government's strategy to reduce poverty and inequality inBrazil. Efficiency gains will arise from merging
the programs, and will also partially offset these higher costs (thus allowing for greater coverage). The
program is also seeking better complementarityand a pooling o f resourceswith state and local programs for
expandedcoverage to further expand the pool of available resources.


                                               2002        2003      2004        2005           2006
Beneficiaries: Million families covered
  Bolsa Familia                                 ma.        3.6        6.5        8.7             11.2
Budgets: Billion RS;                         Pre-reform
  BolsaFamiliab                                R$2.4a    R$4.3"     R$5.85      R$7.50          R$9.39
Budgets: Billion 17%                         Pre-reform
  BolsaFamiliab                               US$0.8"    US$1.SC    US$2.0     US$2.6          US$3.2




                                                       16

  4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

  A reviewo f critical risks and mitigation measures is listed inTable 6 below. The BFP is an important part
  of Brazil's development strategy, one that has the potential to reduce poverty and inequality today (through
  the provision of redistributivetransfers) and tomorrow (by tyingthese transfers to incentives for investments
  inhuman capital). Nonetheless, the potential ofthe BFP needs to be placed inthe context of Brazil's well-
  rounded strategy for development, which promotes simultaneous actions on both the economic and social
  fronts, including crucial investments in the supply of quality education and health services as well as other
  empowerment (emuncipuqiib) efforts and social programs, which all complement the BFP.

                                     Table 6 -Crii
Risks                                                 RiskMitigationMeasures                                  RiskRatingwith
                                                                                                               Mitigation
                                                To PI
Possibledelays or problems inadaptingto anew
ministerialstructureand institutional arrangements
resultingfrom the integrationofmultiple programs.
Associatedriskscould involve: (a) the risk of failing
to meet high expectationsdue to possibleinitial
implementationproblemsas institutional
arrangements are sortedout; and(b) the possibility of
vague definition of inter-institutionalroles amongthe
various agenciesinvolved.
Internationalexperiencewith transfer programs         Risk mitigationmeasures include: (a) strengthening        S untilCadastro
suggests that controlsystems shouldbe inplace to      the system for identifying the target populationand       improvements
ensuretransparencyandobjectivity, particularly        selectingbeneficiaries; (b) publicizing beneficiarylists   implemented
duringelectionperiods. Giventhat municipal            on the internetso as to promote socialcontrol (as is
elections are to be heldinlate 2004, the Government   currently beinglaunched); (c) regularre-certification
is takingmeasuresto minimizethe potentialfor          ofhouseholdsfor eligibility purposes(updatingthe
political manipulationat the municipal level in       Cadastrodata); and (d) quality control reviews for the
Cadasteringandbeneficiaryselectionas the program      BFPandthe Cadastro. Components2-4 will support
expands.                                              these measuresto help improvethe quality and
                                                      credibility ofthe program.
Risk of budgetcuts for the BFP.                       Earmarkingof governmentresourceswill help                        M
                                                      mitigatethisrisk. Disbursementmechanismfor
                                                      proposedproject(reimbursingagainst expenditureson
                                                      the program) will also help protectthe budget for the
                                                      BFP.
Low municipalcapacityto implementCadastro data        All Componentsseek to strengthenmunicipal                 S inthe interim,
collectionfor selectionof beneficiariesand/or         capacity. Since there are over 5,000 municipalities,       Masproject
verificationof conditionalities.                      the projectwill likely focus first on strengtheningthe       progresses
                                                      capacity of some municipalitiesto ensure quality, and
                                                      then focus on multiplying these results inother
                                                      municipalities.
Riskthat programmight fail to reach extremepoor,      Designof programto prioritize extremepoor (with per              M
evenwith technical improvements.                      capitaincomes<R$50) will helpmitigatethis risk.
                                                      The use of the poverty map to promoteoutreach
                                                      survey methodsfor datacpllection inextremelypoor
                                                      areas underthe CadastroUnico (as opposedto on-
                                                      demandregistration)will also promotecoverage of the
                                                      extremepoor. Other mitigation efforts include: (a)
                                                      outreacheffortsvia informationcampaigns
                                                      (Component4); (b) the developmento fa strategyto
                                                      operate the programinremoteareas (Component 4);
                                                      (c) socialcontrolmechanisms(Componenf 3); and
                                                      (d) overall improvementsto the Cadastro Unico
                                                      (Component2).
Possible low complianceby beneficiarieswith           Component4 will (a) seek to strengthenthe systemfor              M
iuman capitalconditionalities.                        verifying compliance; and (b) support the publication



                                                                 17

                                                         anddisseminationofbeneficiaryinformation booklets
                                                         (cadernetas) to promoteawareness ofthe programand
                                                         the importanceof complyingwith humancapital
                                                         conditions.
Bottlenecks on the supply side: Insufficient supply of   Mechanismsare beingdesignedto foster linksbetween       Moverall
educationandhealth servicesto meet increasein            the supply and demand side andto work with the       S in some areas
demandinsome municipalities;andminimal                   MinistriesofHealthandEducationas well as the
accumulationofhumancapitalbecauseofthe low               municipalauthoritiesto eliminatethese bottlenecks.
quality of schools that beneficiariesattend incertain    These are beingsupportedby Component4 ofthe
areas.                                                   project(inter-institutionalstrengthening). The
                                                         Ministriesof HealthandEducationare also promoting
                                                         investmentsto improvethe supply-andquality -of
                                                         schools andhealthcare.
The risk that disbursementsagainst cashtransfers         Performanceincentives (disbursementpercentages)             M
(Component 1) couldmove muchfaster than                  basedoncompliancewith key milestones would help
institutionalimprovements.                               pacedisbursementswith technicalimprovements.
                                                    To ProjectComponentResults
Weaknessesinexistingthe Cadastro system could            The Govemmentis committedto strengtheningthe         S at leastduring
generatepossiblehigh ratesof leakageto the non-          CadastroUnicomechanismsfor identifying and           electionperiod
poorandpossibleexclusionof some of the poor from         selectingbeneficiaries. Component2 ofthe project    anduntilCadastro
the program(thoughsome sucherrors are inevitable         will support these efforts.                          improvements
even with the best systems). There is also arisk that                                                          implemented
it might bepolitically difficult to removeineligible
non-poor beneficiaries(once identified) from the
program.
The new institutionalarrangementscreatethe risk of       The Govemmenthas prioritized creationof a strong            M
low capacity for designingand implementingthe            M&E system for BFP. Component3 will helpbuild
M&E system. Also, relatedto the political risk           capacity andcontinued emphasis on these issues
mentionedabove, the pressures to expandquickly           (alongwith the performancemilestones). The
(quantity) couldcome at the expenseof quality of         component also envisages use of outsourcingand
M&E svstems designas attentionis diverted.               partnershiparrangementsto supplement capacity.
For institutionalstrengthening, there is apossible       Component4 will helpthe BFP develop abalanced               M
riskthat the BFPoficials would focus moreon              strategybetweenpromotingthese important
promotingthe inter-governmentalpartnershipsto            partnershipswhile strengtheningthe core functioning
         the program(quantity) over the strengthening    ofthe program.
         basic institutionalfunctioning for the core



  5. Loan conditions and covenants

   1.        Effectiveness Conditions:
       0     Adoption o f an Operational Manual for the Project satisfactory to the World Bank, including:
             institutional arrangements; operational procedures (including a system for monitoring and
             verification o f conditionalities, eligibility procedures); procurement and contracting procedures,
             sample standard bidding documents and filing instructions (including for QCBS and NCB);
             disbursement and financial management procedures, including template FMRs; auditing procedures;
             and supervision, project administration, monitoring and progress reports, evaluation plans; and
             Performance Indicators.
       0     M D S will appoint for the PIU two procurement specialists, a financial manager and                            two
             accountantswith qualifications and experience satisfactory to the World Bank.
       0     Draft Terms o f Reference for audits approved by the World Bank.

  2.         Milestones for moving from 8% to 9% disbursement percentage for Component 1 (reimbursing
  against SOTS)("Stage 2 milestones" from Table 2):
       0     New Cadastro Unico questionnaires developed
       0     The instruments for implementation of eligibility criteria for BFbeneficiaries revised
       0    Normative acts and operational guidelinesfor the Cadastro Unico publishedon MDSwebpage


                                                                   18

     0    Terms of reference for design of MIS for BFP prepared
     0    Inventory of existing inter-governmental partnerships for BFP completed
     0    Terms of reference for Quality Control Reviews developed
     0    Terms of reference for baseline beneficiary survey prepared
     0    Matrix of key functional and institutional responsibilities for BFP published
     0    Beneficiary information booklets (cudernetus)designed

3.        Milestones for moving from 9% to 11% disbursement percentage for Component 1 (reimbursing
against SOTS)("Stage 3 milestones"):
     0    Data collection strategy designed and piloted
     0    All detectableduplications inthe CadastroUnico databaseeliminated
     0    Cadastro Unico users(MDS and 30% of municipalities) with access to Cadastro Unico data
     0    Adequate Management Information System(MIS)for BFP developed and operational
     0    Quality Control Reviews for Bolsa Familia processes developed and piloted in at least 10
          municipalities
     0    Baseline beneficiary survey developed and piloted inat least 10 municipalities
     0    Systemfor verifying human capital conditionalitiesdeveloped, piloted inat least 5 municipalities
     0    Beneficiary information booklets (cadernetus)distributed

4.        Covenants:
     0    The Borrower shall carry out the IPDP.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses
As with other conditional cash transfers, there are many potential benefits o f the Bolsa Familia program,
including:
     0    A reduction inimmediate poverty and inequality due to the redistributive cashtransfers;
     0    Gains in education due to both an income effect and a price effect associatedwith the conditionality
          of minimum school attendance required of school-aged children in all beneficiary families (see
          Annex 1); and
          Gains in health status due to both an income effect and a price effect associatedwith health-related
          conditionalities for pregnant women and young children (see Annex 1).

Conceptual and data limitations prevent the monetary quantification o f many o f these benefits.
Conceptually, while it is possible to quantify the magnitude o f poverty and inequality impacts that could
result from these transfers, it is not possible (or desirable) to quantify these benefits inmonetary terms. Data
limitations also prevent the quantification o f the impact of the program on health status. Given these
limitations, a full-fledged cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis i s not possible. Nor is such an analysis
required, due to the nature of the project (poverty project).

Nonetheless, the project team used household survey data to simulate the potential impact of the BFP on
poverty, inequality and educational attainment. The results (expected by end 2006) are significant (see
Annex 9 for details):
     0    The programwill transfer an averageo fR$71(US$24)5 to 11.2 millionfamilies by end2006.
    0     reduction inoverall poverty (extreme +moderate) from 33.3% to 29.9%.
          This transfer could result in a large reduction of extreme poverty, from 14.5% to 8.1% and a



 US dollar conversionsfor benefitamounts providedfor referenceonly usinganexchangerateof2.9


                                                                   19

    0    This transfer could reduce inequality from a GiniCoefficient of 0.595 to 0.578.
    0    The conditionalities and income effects of the transfer could result in an increase intotal years of
         schooling attained o f 3.4%.

2. Technical

International and Brazilian experience shows that conditional cash transfer programs can be extremely
effective mechanisms for reducing poverty and inequality in the short-run, and providing incentives for
human capital development which can reduce poverty and inequality in the long run. International
experience also shows that some o f the key aspects of basic architecture for conditional cash transfers
include: (a) an accurate system for identifying and selecting the target population; (b) a well-balanced
system for monitoring and evaluating program activities, processes, results and outcomes; and (c) clear
institutional structures and roles for the basic functions of the program (including program oversight,
financial and information flows, the system for identifying the target population, and verifying
conditionalities). These are the very areas that make up the technical components o f the proposedproject.

The specific content o f each technical component was also designed taking into account international
experience and Brazilian realities and will draw on the significant technical assistance that the World Bank
has been providing to the Government for the conceptualization and design of these reforms since March
2003, following discussions between President Lula and President Wolfensohn. This support has been
provided under the umbrella o f the Brazil Social Assistance Program (BRASA, EW-P078828-ESW), a
programmatic ESW/AAA program, including assistance on the overall design of an integrated
program, issues pertaining to identifying and selecting beneficiaries, and monitoring and evaluation o f the
program. The proposed project would also buildon and complement the on-going PSRL program inthe HD
sectors, which emphasizes actions to enhance equity, improve the quality and efficiency of social programs,
and increase accountability in the social sectors. As discussed above, the proposed HD TAL will also
support activities (including the household budget survey, POF 2005) that would serve as inputs into the
proposed BFP project.

More generally, the World Bank has acquired considerable technical expertise around the world in
strengthening targeting systems, developing monitoring and evaluation systems for conditional cash
transfers, and in promoting the types o f institutional innovations envisaged for the BFP. The Bank team
consists of specialists who bringconsiderable international experience ineach of these areas.

3. Fiduciary

Procurement (Annex 8). The procurement risk assessment ofthe project was determined to be highrisk as
presented inthe Capacity Assessment o f the Project, since MDSwas only recently created anddoes not have
prior experience working with World Bank-financedprojects. MDS will carry out procurement activities in
collaboration with UNDP. The capacity assessment recommends several actions to be implemented to
improve the MDS procurement capacity as part of the project implementation. It i s expected that this
project would require stronger supervision of procurement as the capacity o f the agency is limited. The
supervision plan proposes a frequency o f biannual post-review missions. The size o f the sample for post-
review will be 1 in 5 inall cases. This ratio may be adjusted duringproject implementation depending on the
performance and the results of the reviews.

FinancialManagement(Annex 7). A financial management assessment was conducted inaccordance with
OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of FinancialManagement in World Bank FinancedProjects
issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on October 15, 2003. It concluded that the financial
management arrangements satisfy the World Bank's requirements, and a financial management system is in
place that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the


                                                      20

project. The project will use an SOT (statement of transfers) methodology for Component 1(reimbursement
basis) and an SOE (statement of expenditures) methodology for Components 2-5.                      The financial
monitoring/reporting system has the capacity to produce reliable information and reasonable cash forecasts.
The overall financial management riskassociatedwith the Project is rated as moderate. Externalaudits will
follow the Bank's new audit policy and guidelines issuedby the FMSB on June 30,2003.

Expenditure Eligibility. The proposed loan would finance the cost o f reasonable taxes and duties in
accordance with the provisions of the New Policy Framework for Eligibility o f Expenses, and consistent
with the establishedBrazil country financing parameters.

Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing will be available for disbursement categories 1 (Goods), 2
(Consultant Services), 3 (Training and Seminars), 4 (BF Grants) and 5 (Incremental Operating Costs)
procured in a satisfactory fashion and paid after January 1, 2004 up to a maximum o f 19% of the loan
amount. This retroactive financing percentage is consistent with the parameters included inthe New Policy
Framework for Eligibility of Expenses, and consistent with the established Brazil country financing
parameters. It i s recommend that, once the loan is declared effective, such expenditures be immediately
claimed from the World Bank, on a reimbursement basis.


4. Social

The entire project is focused on delivering strong social outcomes. Indeed, it will support one of the
Government's flagship social initiatives: the Bolsa Familia Program. This program i s designed to reduce
poverty and inequality inthe short run, and promote human capital development, which could further reduce
poverty and inequality in the long run. The BFP is also designed to link program beneficiaries with
complementary services and to promote the development o f tailored empowerment ("emanc@u@o '7
strategies.

Since the proposed project will support the Government's own program, it builds on the consultations that
MDS has beencarrying out with key stakeholders, including extensive consultations with: municipalheads
and state governors; line ministries affected by the reforms (including the Ministries of Health, Education,
Mines and Energy, and the former Ministry o f Food Security, which was merged into MDS); private sector
business groups (as part o f their social responsibility dialogue); universities and think tanks; NGOs and other
civil society organizations (including local social control committees); and groups of beneficiaries
themselves. In addition, consultations were held with representatives of indigenous and Quilombola
populations and anthropologists working with these groups as an input into the preparation of the IPDP (see
Annex 10).

In terms of social issues, the project will support a strengthening of the system for identifyingthe target
population (Component 2) to help ensure that program resources reach the poor and that beneficiary
identification and selection i s fair and transparent and respects the cultural, ethnic and racial characteristics
of the poor population (including those of poor indigenous and Quilombola populations). The Cadastro
Unico system for identifyingand selecting target populations has already piloted efforts to cover indigenous
and Quilombola populations (see Annex 10).

Gender has also been an important consideration in the design of the BFP. The law governing the program
includes an explicit provision that payment of BFP transfers should be made to the mother or woman inthe
household if at all possible. This preference for payments to women is based on international evidence that
suggests that mothers' decisions regardingthe intra-household allocation o f resourcesoften favor children's
nutrition, healthand education.




                                                         21

Finally, the solid monitoring and evaluation system for the BFP will help the program monitor the issues of
access to project benefits (respecting the cultural and ethnic patterns of the country and the poor population)
and transparency of beneficiary selection (among other aspects of programperformance).

5. Environment

Not applicable.

6. Safeguard policies

OD 4.20 requirements were met with the Indigenous Peoples Development P1 ninAnn x 10 ofthe
PAD.

    Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                   No
    Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [I                   [XI
    Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [ I                 [XI
    Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                               [I                   [XI
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 E l                 [XI
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [I                  [XI
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)                                  [XI                   [I
    Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [ I                 [XI
    Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [ I                 [XI
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [I                  [XI
    Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      11                  [XI


7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

The proposedproject does not requireany exceptions from Bank policiesor procedures. The project meets
all Regionalcriteria for readiness for implementation.




'Bysupportingtheproposedproject,theBankdoesnotintendtoprejudice thepnaldeterminationof theparties'claimsonthedisputedareas


                                                             22

                       Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                                       BRAZIL: BR BolsaFamilia

Country Context: The Dual ChallengesofEconomic Growthand SocialProgress

Brazil's Government is committed to realizing the country's large potential for welfare improvements
through simultaneous actions on the economic and social fronts. This two-part strategy recognizes that
economic growth is crucial for development. Nonetheless, growth has been elusive in recent years, with
GDP contracting by 0.2% in 2003.6 Faster growth depends on a coordinated pushto improve conditions for
investment and for higher productivity. This means reducing long-term public liabilities (especially through
structural reforms inthe public pensions system) to create fiscal space for public investmentand cut the cost
of capital; reducing impediments to innovation and investment stemming from excessive regulation and
bureaucracy; addressing trade barriers; moving toward a more efficient and deeper financial sector; and
investingmore inhuman capital, in particular in secondary education.

At the same time, the Government's dual strategy emphasizes the importance of lasting social progress.
Over the past decade, Brazil carried out significant reforms to expand the coverage, quality, and efficiency
of its education and health systems and strengthen its safety net. Basic social indicators improved faster
than inmost other countries with similar income levels. Brazil i s now close to achieving universal coverage
of basic education. Infant mortality fell from 48 per 1000 live births in 1991 to less than 30 in 2000. The
poverty rate fell sharply since economic stabilization in 1994, and has hovered around 28-30% (from 36% in
1992) since then.

Nonetheless, deeper social progress i s essential to improve the quality o f life of the least advantagedgroups.
The importance of achieving visible and rapid social gains while maintaining economic stability is further
highlighted by the ambitions, high expectations, and hopes that rest on this particular Government
administration. Rapid achievements on the social side would consolidate broader support for economic
responsibility and difficult reforms, thus strengthening the foundations for growth and for even faster social
progress inthe future.

Despite recent progress, challenges remain. Education indicators still lag due to Brazil's low starting point,
particularly among the poor. Disparities remain inhealth care fundingacross regions, and in utilization rates
across socio-economic groups. Poverty has remained fairly constant since the mid-1990s and the poverty
profile has changed, with the effects o f the recent economic slowdown being felt primarily in metropolitan
areas in the Southeast. In fact, poverty levels in metropolitan areas increased sharply, with the Southeast
share of poverty increasing from 17-26% from 1998-2001. Poverty incidence among youth also increased,
and poverty rates continue to be especially high for those with low levels o f education, as well as for
indigenous and afro-descendent populations. Related to these disparities, Brazil is still one of the world's
most unequal societies: with a Gini coefficient of 0.59 for incomes, the richest 1%o f the populationreceives
10% of total monetary income-the      same share as the poorest 50%. Analysis shows that income inequality
inBrazil stems primarily from unequalaccess to education and a highskillpremium for labor, alongwith a
highly regressivepension system.

Higher quality and more equitable access to education (including secondary and tertiary education) are key
to reducing poverty and inequality inthe long run. However, the positive impacts of education reform take
timeto materialize. Reforms to social assistanceprograms (see below) and a more equitable pension system
can achieve complementary results sooner and substantially reduce inequality and alleviate poverty.



 IBGE, February2004.



                                                      23

Country Context: Social Spending7

As stated in the report on social
expenditures by the Ministry of Finance                                Figure1- Conposition of FederalSocialSpending: 2002
(November 2003), total social spending*                                                           Agrarian
of the federal Government reached                                 S. Assist.-"-,,I%l-busing      1
R$204.2 billion, or 15.5% of GDP in                                  6%                              *%

2002. This is relatively high. Infact, on                                                                    Other
       '
a per capita basis, Brazilian public social
expenditures are 50% higher than might
be ex ected given the country's income
level.             Social        spending         grew
significantly over the past few years,
rising from 12.7% of GDP in 1998.
However, this growth mirrors the rise in                                                                            65%
public         spending            on        pensions
(previdencia), which is by far the largest                       Source: Palocci,Listma,et. al. (2003)
component of social spending in Brazil
(Figure 1). Health i s the second largest                   '
spending area, protected by a constitutional amendment that requires a certain percentage of all fiscal
receipts to be allocated to spending on health. The federal Government spends fairly equal amounts on
social assistance, labor, and education (Figure 1).

Sector Context: Brazil's Social Protection System

Brazil allocates three-quarters of total federal social spending to social protection activities in the areas of
pensions(previdencia), social assistance, and active labor market programs (Figure 1).

Previdhcia Benefits."                As discussed above and as stated in the report on social expenditures by the
Ministry of Finance (November 2003), federal spending on pensions (previdbncia) dwarfs all other
categories, accounting for 86% o f total federal social protection spending, two-thirds of total federal social
expenditures, and 9.7% of GDP in 2002. Some 69% of spending on previdencia goes to private sector
pensions under the Regime Geral de Previdgncia Social (RGPS), including both urban and rural pensions.
Another 27% is allocated to public sector pensions under the Regime Juridic0 Unico (RJU). The remainder
(5.6%) goes to a variety of employer-paid benefits (sick pay, accident pay, maternity pay, family
allowances) and another 1.3% goes to administrative costs o f the National Social Security Institute (INSS).
Inprinciple, previdbnciabenefitsarecontributive; inother words, to have access to them, an individual must
have contributed or be contributing to the INSS system. In reality, however, the previdbncia system runs
significant deficits. In 2002, these deficits - which can be interpreted as public subsidies or assistance
transfers to previdencia beneficiaries - accounted for about a third of total outlays on previdbncia benefits
(or 3.2% o f GDP). Spending on previdencia benefits is highly regressive. Households in the top quintile
receive 71 times more previdencia benefits than do those in the bottom quintile. Those in the top two
quintiles receive 60% o f all previdbnciabenefits."                    These inequalities arise in two ways: (a) the restriction

'This  section draws primarily from: Palocci Filho, Antonio, Marcos de Barros Lisboa, Othvio Ribeiro Damaso, Roberto Pires Messenberg, and
Rozane Bezerra de Siquiera (November 2003). "Gasto Social do Governo Central: 2001-2002." Ministerio da Fazenda, Secretaria de Politica
Economica. Socialspending includes outlays andtax breaks for relatedpurposes.
*Following Brazilian tradition, social spending includes expenditures on: pensions (previdencia) and social assistance, health, education, housing,
basic sanitation, active labor marketpolicies/programs, and agrariansupport.
 The World Bank (June 2000). "Brazil: SelectedIssues inSocialProtection."ReportNo. 20054-BR.
loThis section draws primarily from: Palocci Filho, Antonio, Marcos de Barros Lisboa, OtAvio Ribeiro Damaso, Roberto Pires Messenberg, and
Rozane Bezerra de Siquiera (November 2003). "Gasto Social do Governo Central: 2001-2002." Ministerio da Fazenda, Secretaria de Politica
Economica.
  IncidenceinformationfromLevy, Nogueira, O'Donoghue and Siqueira (2003), as referencedinPalocci, Lisboaet. al. (November 2003).



                                                                       24

o f previdsncia benefits to all those inthe formal sector (having made contributions to the INSS system); and
(b) inequities within the previdsncia system, with rural pensionersreceiving benefits equal to one minimum
wage (R$240 per month) from the RGPS/INSS system, while on the other extreme, public-sector pensioners
receive benefits averaging 15 minimumwages.'*

Active Labor Market program^.'^ The Federal Government also maintains several programs to protect
workers and promote employment, which in total account for 5% of federal social spending and 0.7% of
GDP. The largest of these is unemployment insurance (seguro-de~emprego),'~which absorbs 60% of
spending in this area, followed by a salary bonus (abono salarial), which accounts for another 13.5%, and
various employment promotion programs. All of these benefits are limitedto formal sector workers. One of
the main social initiatives o fthe new Government was to introduce a new program inthis area, the "Primeiro
Emprego" program, which seeks to helpyouth obtain skills and access for their firstjobs.

Social Assistance. The federal Government operates numerous social assistance programs. In 2002, these
absorbed close to 6% of total federal social spending and 1% o f GDP."                                Prior to the recent integration
reforms, the federal Government operated four large conditional cashtransfer programs that were targeted to
roughly the same target group o f poor families (see more on this below). These accounted for about a
quarter of all direct safety net spending by the federal Government. The remaining social assistance
expenditures were allocated to programs that were tailored to the specific needs of vulnerable groups (see
Table l),      including assistance to the disabled, the elderly, school feeding and other in-kind nutritional
assistance, and PETI, a child labor eradication program that combines conditional cash transfers with
support for after school activities designed to keep children out of risky labor activities. In addition, many
state and local governments operate their own safety net programs (consolidated spending information not
available). As discussed below, the Bolsa Familia reforms seek to merge not only the federal conditional
cash transfer programs, but also to integrate the federal-state-local programs vertically where sub-national
programs exist. Untilthe recent household budget survey (POF 2002-03), which will soon be available for
analysis, there were no nationally representative household survey data on specific social assistance
programs (federal or sub-national). As such, the incidence ofthese programs i s unknown.'6




  Palocci, Lisboaet. al. (November 2003).
l3This section draws primarily from: Palocci Filho, Antonio, Marcos de Barros Lisboa, Othvio Ribeiro Damaso, Roberto Pires Messenberg, and
Rozane Bezerra de Siquiera (November 2003). "Gasto Social do Govern0 Central: 2001-2002." Ministkrio da Fazenda, Secretaria de Politica
Economica.
  This benefit is limited to formal sector workers who have been dismissed without ``just cause." The benefit is based on the last monthly salary
received, and can be paidfor five months (continuouslyor not) within any 16 monthperiod. In2002, about 9.5 millionworkers receivedthis benefit.
Palocci, Lisboaet. al. (November 2003).
IsThese include outlays and tax breaksfor socialassistance.
  However, datafrom the census (a grouped question of several programs together) suggest that cash transfer programs (to poor families as well as
the disabled, which were supposedto be targetedto poor disabledwith per capita incomesbelow R$90 per month) were poorly targeted, with 54%of
total transfersgoingto non-poor families (and the programsonly coveringabout 2.3% of the poor). Palocci, Lisboa et. al. (November 2003).



                                                                      25

       ConditionalCashAssistanceto Poor Families                   TailoredAssistanceto SpecificVulnerableGroups
Programs                            Amount'      'YOof Total  Programs                        Amount'      % ofTotal
BolsaEscola                            1605.4       15.7%     Assistance to Elderly          1 1983.7    1  19.4%     1
BolsaAlimentaGgo                        152.0        1.5%     PET1(child labor)                516.1         5.0%
Auxilio Gas                             650.5        6.3%     Agente Jovem (youth)              66.7         0.7%
P. Cart80 Aliment. (PCA)b               n.a.         n.a.     Ofher child-related assist.      289.6         2.8%
Sub-TotalAbove                    I    2407.9  I    23.5%     Schoolfeeding, other nut.        949.1        12.1%
   Above programs merged into Bolsa Familia Programin         Assistance to Disabled           3328.6       32.5%
  October 2003 (after introduction o f the PCA and continued  Other"                           703.8         9.0%
                expansion of other programs)                  Sub-TotalAbove                   7837.5       76.5%
GRANDTOTAL (Cash assistanceto poor families tailoredassistanceprograms)
                                                     +                                         10245.4     100.0%




PROGRAMBACKGROUND: SAFETYNET REFORMS AND THE BOLSAFAM~LIAPROGRAM

TheReformAgenda: IntegratingCashTransferPrograms for ImprovedEfficiency

As part of its dual focus of maintaining macro stability while achieving more equitable growth and rapid
social progress, the Government recently initiated sweeping reforms to improve its social safety net. These
reforms seek to integrate several federal conditional cash transfer programs. Many of these programs are
individually promising, and evaluations have demonstrated the positive impacts o f the Bolsa Escola and
BolsaAlimentaqiio programs (see Annex 9). Nonetheless, the separate operation of multiple programs with
similar objectives and actions i s inefficient.            As such, the reforms seek to integrate these programs
horizontally into a single, improved conditional cash transfer program, "Bolsa Familia." The reforms are
also seeking better complementarity -- and possibly a vertical pooling o f resources -- with state and local
programs, as discussed below.

Prior to these reforms, Brazil operated multiple cash transfer programs oriented to poor families. These
programs included:

    0     Bolsa Escola (BE), which provided a monthly transfer o f R$15 for each school-aged child (with a
          maximum o f three children, or R$45) to poor households (<R$90 in per capita income).                     In
          exchange, the three recipient children all had to attend school a minimum of 85% of the time
          (conditionality).     As o f October 2003, Bolsa Escola benefited about 5.6 million families. Bolsa
          Escola became a well-known trademark (and export) o f Brazilian social policy. It was operated by
         the Ministryof Education.

    0     Bolsa Alimentaqiio (BA), which targeted pregnant and lactating women and young children and
          provided a monthly transfer o f R$15 per person (for up to three people, or R$45 per household) to
         poor households (<R$90 in per capita income).                  In exchange, these individuals had to make
          specified health care visits and the mothers had to participate in nutritional education workshops
          (conditionalities). As o f October 2003, Bolsa Alimentaqiio benefited about 1.7 million families. It
         was operated by the Ministryo f Health.

    0     CartHo Alimentaqiio (PCA), which was part of the Fome Zero program and provided a monthly
         transfer of R$50 to poor families. In principle, these families were supposed to use the funds for
         food purchases. The program expanded rapidly from its launching in 2003, reaching 289,000
          families in August and 774,764 by October. It was operated by the (former) Ministry of Food
          Security (MESA).

    0    Auxilio G6s (AG), which provided a monthly cash transfer of R$7.50 (inthe form o f a bi-monthly
         payment of R$15) to poor families (<R$lOO in income per capita) to compensate them for the


                                                             26

           elimination o f an indirect subsidy on cooking gas.                           As o f October 2003, about 9.7 million
           households received the Auxilio-Gas payment. It was administered by the Ministry of Mines and
           Energy.

Collectively, these programs represented about a quarter of federal spending on social assistance in 2002
(see Table 1 above). Although each maintained its own emphasis (promoting schooling, health care, food
consumption, or compensating for adjustment), they all provided cash transfers to roughly the same target
group of poor families. Each program was managed with separate administrative structures, beneficiary
selection processes, and banking-sector contracts for payments issuance. These separate structures created
inefficiencies and administrative duplication, resulted inconsiderable gaps and duplications in coverage, and
missed important synergies from jointly promoting education and health. Given these inefficiencies, the
reforms seek to integrate these programs into a single, improved conditional cash transfer (CCT) program
calledthe "Bolsa Familia Program" (BFP), which was officially launched on October 20,2003.

The BolsaFamiliaProgram

Reform and ProgramObjectives. There are different levels o f objectives for the BFP. First, as a safety
net reform, the new program will integrate the four CCT programs mentioned above (BE, BA, PCA, AG).
As such, the objectivesof the safety net reformsinclude:
     9 Consolidatingandrationalizingfederal conditionalcashtransfer programs;
     9 Promoting efficiency in the use of public resources (e.g., by reducing administrative costs and
           promoting more efficient programmanagement);
     9 Improvingthe systemfor identifyingthetargetpopulation;
      9 Leveragingsynergiesfromjointly promotingeducationandhealth incentives;
      9 Strengtheningmonitoringandevaluation; and
      9 Leveragingopportunities to systematize complementarities inthe social safety net between federal
           and sub-national programs (promoting vertical integration).

Second,withthis platform, the objectivesofthe newBFP (the program itself) include:
      9 Reducingpoverty and inequality today, through a direct monetary transfer to poor families (which
           could have a potential impact on both the families themselves and on the local economies in which
           they live); and
      9 Reducing poverty and inequality tomorrow, first, by providing incentives and conditions for
           investments in human capital on behalf o f beneficiary families, and by developing a system to link
           beneficiary families to complementary services that could help them invest and grow out of poverty
           inthe future.

Target Group. The BFP defines two target groups. The priority target group is those "extreme poor"
families with per capita monthly incomes below R$50 (US$17).                                         The program also targets those
"moderately poor" families with per capita monthly incomes below R$lOO (US$34)17 but higher than R$50
(US$17). Data from the Household Income Survey (PNAD 2002) suggestthat about 32% of the population
would be considered "poor" using a total cutoff of R$100 (the extreme poor and the moderately poor
combined).l8




   Brazil does not have an official poverty line and research institutions use different poverty lines that lead to different poverty numbers. The
povertyline used inthe World Bank's PovertyAssessment is set at aroundR$80 per month (US$27) and is adjustedfor each region using aregional
priceindex, This results ina nationalpoverty rate of 28.7%. IPEA's extremepoverty line was establishedat R$62, yielding an extremepovertyrate
of 14.6%. IPEA calculates the full poverty line as twice the extreme povertyline, or R$124, resultingin a povertyrate of 33.6%. This value is close
to that beingusedby the Government intheir documents.
  Leite, Phillippe (January2004).



                                                                        27

Benefit Levels." The programwill provide cashtransfers rangingfrom R$15-95 (US$5-33) to these target
families. By law, payments are preferably made to the mother or woman in the household. The exact
transfer amount will depend on income levels and household composition (see Table 2 below). These
amounts were set with the goal of minimizing the number of people benefiting from the previous programs
that couldeither be excludedor face reducedbenefitsunder the integratedprogram.

Monthly transfers are expectedto average about R$71(US$24) per beneficiary family, a significant increase
in average benefits, rising from about R$24 (US$8) in total for the previous programs.20 On a per capita
basis, this represents about 19% of the poverty line used by the World Bank, 12% of IPEA's poverty line,
and 6% ofthe minimum wage.




                                      Base Transfer           Variable Transfer (per number of):                   Total Transfer
General Benefit                       Irrespective o f            k Children0-12                             '   Add base variable
                                                                                                                            +
Description                       FamilyComposition               k Adolescents upto age 15
                                          or Size
Per Capita Income:                                                  Upto 3 Variable Transfers
     <R$50 per month                  R$50 (US$17)                     R$15-45 (US$5-15)                         R$65-95 (US$22-33)
    <R$100 per month                       none                        R$15-45 (US$5-15)                         R$15-45 (US$5-15)
Conditionalities                                          Apply to all relevant family members (see menu below)



Scope and Spending. The BFP is rapidly becoming one of the Government's major social initiatives. It
surpassed its target of 3.6 million families in its first three months of operation in 2003 (reaching 3.615).
The Government's multi-year plan (PPA) targets 11.2million families (or about 44 million people) by 2006
(see Table 3), which will represent a significant scaling up of social assistance as compared with the
(overlapping) coverage of its predecessors.

The initial phase of expansionprimarily involves certifying and "converting" (or "migrating") beneficiaries
from the pre-reform programs to the BFP (Table 4). This process is being done gradually (mainly as fiscal
resourcespermit) and should be complete by 2006. As part ofthe integration process, the BFP took over the
management of the cash transfer benefits being paid to the beneficiaries that are still receiving benefit
amounts from the pre-reform programs but who are gradually being migrated to the (higher) unified benefit




l9  USdollar conversionsfor benefitamountsprovidedfor referenceonly usinganexchangerateof2.9.
2o  d'Avila Viana, Ana Luiza (February 2004). "Programa BolsaFamilia." Preparedfor the World Bank inpreparation for the Shang'hai ScalingUp
''events.
    Simulations by Leite, Phillippe (January 2004) using data from the PNAD 2002 show that the transfer levels under the Bolsa Familia program
would have very little (insignificant) impact on adult work effort. Earlier work by Bourguignon, Franqois, Francisco Ferreiraand Phillippe Leite
(2003) show that lower transfer levels (under the previous Bolsa Escola program) would, however, have an effect in reducing child labor (and
''increasingschoolattendance).
    Parker and Skoufias (2000) found that market work for adults does not appear to fall with the PROGRESA transfers in Mexico (partly to
compensatefor the significantimpactthat the programdoes haveon reducingchild labor).



                                                                       28


within a family. The BFP requires all relevant family membersto comply with the relevant conditionalities
(see menu, Table 5).        In some areas, the supply of adequate or the availability of culturally-appropriate
health and education services may be lacking. The BFP is developing a policy to define co-responsibility
requirements in these cases (and an information feedback mechanism to ensure that municipalities, states,
and the line ministries promote the neededsupply-side response).


Children ages 6-15 years                             Enrolment and regular school attendance
Children ages 0-6 years                              Vaccines up to date
Pregnant women                                       Pre-natal visits




                      Table 6 -Social Indicators rel:                                                ta
                              PoorestQuintile           Richest Quintile         National Average       Range by States
School Enrollment
  5-15 years old                    88%                        99%                      92%                88-96%
  5-9 years old                     83%                        98%                      89%                81-95%
  10-15 years old                   92%                                                                    91-97%
                                                                                        ::;:
Average Schooling
  5-15 years old                    2.31                                                                   2.29-3.71
  5-9 years old                     0.66                                                                   0.53-1.22
                                                                             ~




  10-15years old                    3.25                                                4.24               3.03-4.97
RepetitionRates
  5-15 years old                    40%                        6%                       25%                 10-50%
  5-9 years old                      8%                         1%                       4%                 0-11%
  10-15years old                    58%                        8%                       35%                 1448%
Vaccine Coverage               (kids <5; 1996)           (kids   5; 1996)          (kids 4;2002)       (kids 4;in 2002)
  Polio                              ma.                       n.a.                     97.1                83-100
  DPt                               65.6                       81.9                     96.0                72-100
  Measles                           77.9                       90.2                     94.5               75.5-100
  BCG                                n.a.                      ma.                      100.0              91.8-100
  HepB                               n.a.                      n.a.                      88.8              66.1-100
  All                                56.6                      73.8                      n.a.
Malnutrition                   (kids <5; 1996)           (kids <5; 1996)           (kids <5; 1996)
  YOstunting                       23.2%                       2.3%                     10.5%                 n.a.
  %mod. underweight                11.5%                       3.0%                     3.0%                  n.a.
Growth monitoring                                                                      (2003)
  %kids < 1weighed                   n.a.                      n.a.                     85%
Pre-natalVisits
 YO>2 visits (1996)                64.2%                      97.2%           I          n.a.                 n.a.
 %>7 visits (2000)                   ma.                       ma.                      46.0%                 ma.
Per cap. health visits               n.a.                      n.a.                   2.4 (2001)
Sources: Educationdata: PNAD2001,2002. Health data: MSDATASUS; 1996figures from PesquisaNacionalsobreDemografiae Saude.


As shown in Table 6 above, the aims of the conditionalities appear to be appropriate, given the apparent
correlation between poverty and relatively weak outcomes of key education and health indicators (with
much worse indicators for the poor). For example, children in the poorest quintile are less likely to enroll,
more likely to repeat, and complete on average two years less of schooling than their counterparts in the
richest quintile.Only half of all poor children under five are fully up-to-date for their vaccines. Malnutrition
is also fairly high among the poor. Only a small share o f pregnant poor woman appear to be having more
than two pre-natal visits.




                                                                 30

HumanCapitalInvestments: Supply- and Demand-SideInteractions. The interactionbetweenthistype
of targeted CCT program and the provision of more universal "supply side" services for health and
education is mutually complementary: (a) on the one hand, the provision o f quality health and education
services i s clearly a crucial requirement for conditionaltransfers to work; as such, efforts are being madeto
simultaneously invest in such services; (b) on the other hand, even if health and education services were
universally available, CCTs would be neededto help alleviate common demand-side constraints (direct and
indirect costs) that prevent poor households from taking up these services. Investmentsinboththe BFP, and
in the supply and quality of health and education services, are thus crucial elements of a balancedhuman
capital development strategy. An inter-ministerial social committee has been established to help ensure
coordination among the social sector ministries (and the Ministry o f Education, for example, has also
established a special secretariat to focus on the issues of inclusion and diversity in education, including
coordinating linkswith the BFP).

InstitutionalArrangements. The Bolsa Familia Program is managed by SENARC in the newly-created
MDS. The BFP also involves three types of inter-actions: inter-governmental, inter-sectorial, and between
the Government and civil society. The roles and degree of involvement of each of these actors varies by
specific aspect o fthe program (see simplifiedmatrix inTable 7).

First, overall programoversight and articulationis managed at the federal level by MDS. SENARC is
responsible for overseeing the operations of the program, including managing the Cadastro Unico (see
below) and the payment o f benefits. It is guided by the decisions of the President, supported by the
recommendations o f management board (the Comitg Gestor do Programa Bolsa Familia), which is
responsible for policy articulation, promoting partnerships between levels and sectors o f government and
with civil society, overseeing formal audits and social controls.

Second, as discussed below, beneficiary identification is conducted via a data collection and eligibility
process that is managed by the SENARCMDS (including the Cadastro Unico unit in the SENARC), and
involves the municipalities (for data collection) and the Caixa Econamica Federal (CEF, to manage the
national database).23See Table 7 and discussion below for more details.

Third, the institutional arrangements for financial flows and payment of transfers are fairly direct and
simple, building on the long experience of cash transfer programs in usingthe country's extensive banking
system. As discussedinAnnex 7, each month, the M D S sends a Program FinancingProposal (PPF) to STN
for approval. This PPF i s established based on the list o f eligible beneficiaries from the Cadastro U r ~ i c o . ~ ~
Once the PPF i s approved by STN, the MDS issues an ordem bancaria and instructs the STN (National
Secretariat of the Treasury) to transfer funds to a specific BFP account in the Caixa (CEF).                                               Eligible
beneficiaries (on the payroll) then withdraw their monthly benefits using electronic benefit cards (EBCS).~~
The EBCs are distributed to eligible beneficiaries according to the list established by the MDS. Upon
entering the program, beneficiaries must pick up these cards at the nearest CEF agency (or lottery, post
office or municipality). They are notified through the municipalities and must pick up their cards and
withdraw funds within a 90-day period o f time. Experience from the pre-reform programs shows that
approximately 3-5% o f Bolsa Escola beneficiaries did not withdraw their benefits within the 90-day time
period, mainly due to communications or transport difficulties in extremely remote rural areas. This share


23CEF is a federal savingshedit union organization. Apart from bankingservices, CEF has traditionally provided payments issuance services for
federal assistance programs. CEF operates its open 2,047 agencies nationwide, and is linked with 8,900 lottery points and 2,000 banking
correspondents. This broad network is supposed to guarantee its presence in all Brazilian municipalities, one of the reasons for its central role in
managingthe Cadastro Unico databaseandpayments issuancefor social programs.
24As discussed in this Annex, some of these beneficiaries include those currently receiving benefit amounts from the pre-reform programs (Bolsa
Escola, Bolsa Alimentaqb, Cartb AlimentaqZLo, and Auxilio Gas) but who are gradually being migrated to the (higher) unified benefit schedule
under the BFP. They are all being validated as eligible for the BFP and are subject to the same set of conditionalities as the families alreadyon the
BFP.
25Beneficiariesare    requiredto havetheir own bank accounts.



                                                                      31

was reportedly much higher under the Bolsa Alimentaqilo Program (up to one third o f beneficiaries that did
not withdraw their benefits, according to an operational audit by the Tribunal de Contas da Unico, TCU).
The Operations Director in SENARC in MDS monitors the balance o fthe BFP account inthe Caixa (CEF).
Undisbursedamounts arising from the expiration o f benefits that are not claimed within the 90-day period
are returnedfrom the Caixa (CEF) to STN and credited to the MDSfor use by the BFP.

Fourth, MDS is responsible for verification of health and education conditionalities, which is still
definingmechanisms to be used for this purpose. These mechanisms will likely involve both inter-sectoral
and inter-governmental actors, for example with municipalities gathering and forwarding compliance
records to the Ministries of Health and Education (which could help foster a link to the "supply side" for
these services) and to M D S .   The development and strengthening o f such a system for monitoring
conditionalities would be supported by Component 4 of the proposed project.           MDS will also verify
compliance via annual Quality Control Reviews (with random samples of municipalities and beneficiary
families), as discussedfor Component 3 o fthe proposed project inAnnex 4.

Fifth, the institutional arrangements for monitoringand evaluatingprogram performance and impact are
still being configured (and this will be supported by Component 3 o f the proposed project, as discussed in
Annex 4). MDS has the responsibility for monitoring and evaluation at the federal level, and developing
such a system is one of the top priorities of the program. Municipalities will also be responsible for
evaluating the performance and the impact of the program in their ownjurisdictions. Formal audits of the
program will be a federal responsibility, but civil society will also be given an important role in promoting
social controls. Further information i s included inAnnex 4.

Inter-GovernmentalPartnershipsas a Strategy for Expansion and Vertical Integration. One of the
recent innovations o f the BFP has been the emphasis on rationalizing the safety net across levels of
government. Bolsa Familia has sought to forge partnerships with states and municipalities that also operate
their own cashtransfer programs (local Bolsa-typeprograms) or are willing to addtheir ownresourcesto the
program in order to further expand benefits or coverage. For example, the three state governments are
currently already co-financing the program (Rio Grande do Sul, Roraima, and Silo Paulo), six others are in
advanced negotiations with the federal Government for similar co-financing arrangements, and one state is
completely merging its own program into Bolsa Familia. Numerous other states are also negotiating the
provision of complementary services to Bolsa Familia beneficiaries with the federal Government (see
below).   Similar types of partnerships are being forged with multiple municipalities. These vertical
partnerships constitute an innovative way to allow for a further integration o f the safety net, and an
expansion or scaling up o f the BFP beyondthe limits o f federal fiscal resources. They are further discussed
inAnnex4.

Beneficiary Identification, Selection, and Expansion.         As discussed above and in Annex 4, the BFP
makes use of the Cadastro Unico - a national registry of potentially poor households -for beneficiary
selection.   With respect to institutional responsibilities for the Cadastro Unico, data collection and
beneficiary registry are decentralized to the municipalities, but operation and maintenance of the database
are centralized at the federal level, with oversight provided by the Ministry o f Social Development (the
Cadastro Unico unit within MDS), and system management and operation conducted by the Caixa
EconBmica Federal (CEF).




                                                     32

r


                                     e




                           e         e




                                     e




                                          m
                                          m
    .    .   e




    e         e  .    e




                      U
                      P




    . . . . e         e    .  e   e

As discussed for Component 2 in Annex 4, eligibility criteria for the BFP are currently based on self-
reported income. International experience suggests that the use of unverified incomes for identifying and
selecting beneficiaries i s generally problematic due to measurement errors and incentives for under-
reporting and manipulation. The experience with Brazil's Cadastro Unico i s no exception. The income
questions inthe current questionnaire were poorly defined (reference periods, coverage of types of income),
and, without any form o f verification, there is simply too much room for error and under-reporting. Given
these problems, a broad consensus has developed to shift to a proxy-means tested system. However, the
Bolsa Familia Law specifies target groups interms of income cutoffs (for eligibility criteria). Nonetheless,
it does not specify how income is to be measured. Since self-reported income is unreliable, welfare (and
eligibility) could be measuredusing: (a) predicted income (predicted basedon proxy variables); or (b) a two-
step process whereby self-reported income is the first "filter,"                     and then it is "verified" or "validated" using
proxy indicators (as discussed inAnnex 4).

Inthe first phase ofthe Bolsa Familia reforms (end 2003-2004), most existingbeneficiaries were converted
from the pre-reform programs (BE, BA, PCA, some of which also have AG, see Table 4) into the BFP. The
goal of the reforms was to minimize losses to existing beneficiary households. This process also involved
cleaning and validating the existing Cadastro Unico database to detect and correct for any obvious errors
(missing information, duplications, etc.). Since the coverage o f families mainly consisted of conversion
families, there was no massive expansion in terms of numberso f new families receiving benefits (other than
the planned expansion for some 900,000 new families in capital cities in 2004) in this phase. The second
phase (2005-06), however, will involve significant expansion o f the BFP (see Table 3). This expansion -
along with the need to re-certify26existing households inthe Cadastro (since by then their information will
have become out o f date) - will imply a new wave of widespread data collection for the Cadastro Unico.
Actions to strengthen data collection efforts for the Cadastro Unico and eligibility criteria for the BFP will
be supported by the proposed project and are described in Annex 4 (Component 2).

Empowerment("Emancipa@o")Efforts:LinkingBFBeneficiarieswith Complementary Services. An
important policy emphasis for the BFP is to foster bridges between Bolsa Familia beneficiaries and other
complementary services so as to help promote their empowerment ("emuncipu@o") so as to help them
escape from poverty (portus de suidu). Indeed, the BFP has opted not to establish rigid time limits for
beneficiaries, but rather to help reduce their dependency on social assistance by fostering their development
through these links. Such bridges could include (a) links to education and health services, including
culturally-appropriate services (the additional demand generatedby these conditionalities could also serve to
stimulate supply o f these services); and (b) connections to other complementary services (such as job
placement or training services, micro-credit, emergency assistance, etc.). While a strategy for buildingthese
links is still being developed (and indeed would be supported by the proposed project, as discussed for
Component 4 in Annex 4), some states and municipalities are already linkingBolsa Familia beneficiaries to
complementary services offered at these sub-national levels.




26The BolsaFamilia law does not specifythe periodicity requiredfor re-certification. Discussionswith programofficials suggest that apolicy for re-
certificationwill beestablished, andthe periodicitywould likely be 1-2years.



                                                                      34

         Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                               BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

                                                                      Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue        Project                                  (PSR) Ratings
                                                                     (Bank-financedprojects only)

~~
                                                                     Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                           A. PROJECT    UNDER           Progress (IP)    Objective

                                            SUPERVISION                                  (DO)




Iealth Sector                    Family HealthProject                      S              S
                                 (Loan 7105-BR)

Iealth Sector                    DiseaseSurveillance Control-
                                 VIGISUS (Loan 4394-BR)                    S              S


                                    B. PROJECTCOMPLETED


                                 First Programmatic Human
IumanDevelopment                 Development Sector Reform Loan            S              S
                                 (Loan 7159-BR)

locialProtection                 Social Protection Special Sector
                                 Adjustment Loan (Loan 4430-BR)           HS             HS


                                  C. IBRD PLANNEDPROJECTS



Iuman Development                HumanDevelopment Technical
                                 Assistance Loan (P082523)


IumanDevelopment                 HumanDevelopment Programmatic
                                 Sector Reform Loan I1(TBD)


Iealth Sector                    Health Surveillance Modernization
                                 Project -VIGISUS I1(P083013)

IumanDevelopment                 Programa Sectorial de Promocibn del            Closed
                                 Capital Humano (BR-0360)
                                                                                Closed
 ocial Protection                Programa de Reforma y Proteccibn
                                 Social (1174/OC-BR)




                                             35

                                Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                           BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia
                                          Table 1-RESULTSFRAMEWORK
         PDO                                  OutcomeIndicators                                Use of OutcomeInformation
           LONG-TERM IOGRAMDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVESFORBOLSA FAMILIA                            HASEAPL (2004-2008)
Strengthenthe BFP's     >                                                                 -
                           At least3/4 of extremepoor families receivingBF income           YR 0 (pre-refodpre-program):
ability to reduce          transfers                                                         latafrom POF '03 createsbaseline
povertyandinequality    9 At least90% ofprimary-ageschool-agechildreninextremely             YR 2-3: follow-up data collection
by providingpoor           poor beneficiary families attending school                       uillallow to monitorobjectives
families with income    >  At least97% of beneficiarychildrenwith healthcards                YR 4-5: adjustthe programbased
and incentivesto invest >  At least% of childrenaged0-12monthshaveat leastthree             mfeedbackfromyears2-3
inthe humancapitalof       weightingsmarkedon their healthcards                              YR 6: follow-up datacollection
their children.         >  At least% ofpregnantwomen makingahealthvisit beforethe end        w i l l allow further monitoringof
                           o f the fourth monthof pregnancy.                                 Jbjectives
                       1LOJECTDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVESFORFIRSTPHASEOF APL 1004-2006)
Strengthen              >  At least 2/3 ofextremepoor families receivingBF transfers         YR 1: Gauge degree of:
effectivenessofthe      >  At least40% oftotal transfers goingto bottomquintile             :onsolidation of programs,
safety net by:
>                       9 At least80%ofprimary-ageschool-agechildreninextremely             reductionsin gaps andduplications
     Consolidating         poor beneficiary familiesattending school                        incoverage, improvementsin
>    CCT programs       >  At least 95% of beneficiarychildrenwith healthcards              zfficiency, the system for
     Reducinggaps                                                                           identifyingthe targetpopulation,
>     andduplications                                                                        anddevelopmentofM&E system
      Improvingsystem                                                                        YR 1:Determine if strategyfor
      for identifying                                                                        establishingbasic architectureof
>    target population                                                                       BF programneedsto be adjusted
      DevelopingM&E                                                                          YR 2: Adjust programarchitecture
                                                                                            as needed
 IntermediateResults                  ResultsIndicatorsfor EachComponent                            Use of ResultsMonitoring

                        ComponentOne:                                                        ComponentOne:
Conditionalcash         9 At least2/3 ofextremepoorfamiliesreceivingBFtransfers             Insufficient consolidationmay flag
transfers consolidated  9 Pre-reformprogramseliminated(former beneficiarieseither            lackof funding or lack ofpolitical
                        >  convertedto BFPor droppedfrom programs)                           will to phaseout pre-reform
                           Transactions costs for transfer paymentsreduced                   programsfor those familiesthat
                                                                                             will not be convertedto BFP
                        ComponentTwo :                                                       ComponentTwo:
System for Identifying     New Cadastro Unico questionnairesdevelopedandprinted              Inaccuraciesinthe identification
TargetPopulation        >> Expansionandrecertificationdata collectionstrategy designedand    of the target populationmay flag
Strengthened               operational                                                       inadequatedatacollectjon
                        9 Eliminationofall detectableduplicationsintheCadastroUnico          strategies inCadastroUnicoandor
                           database                                                          impreciseapplicationofeligibility
                        9 Periodicityfor updatingCadastroUnicoandrecertifyingBolsa           criteria
                        >  Familiabeneficiariesformally established
                           Cadastro Unico users (MDS and at least 50% ofmunicipalities)
                           with accessto data
ComponentThree:         Component Three:                                                     ComponentThree:
Architecturefor         >  Adequate MISfor BFP developedand operating                        Lack ofprogressmay flag lack of
monitoringand           k Quality ControlReviewsofBFprocessesimplemented                     appropriate intra-andinter-
evaluationsystem        >  Baselinebeneficiarysurvey conducted                               institutional structures. Will
established                                                                                  inform on-goingrefinementof
                                                                                             M&E strateev.
ComponentFour:          Component Four:                                                      ComponentFour:
Strengthenbasic         P Matrix ofkeyresponsibilitiesfor BFPpublished                       Clarification ofkey functionaland
institutional           >  Strategy for operatingprograminremoteareas developed              institutional roleswill help inform
functioningof Bolsa     9 Beneficiaryinformationbooklets(cadernetas)designed, published the strategiesfor beneficiary
FamiliaProgram             and distributed                                                   selectionandM&E.
                        9 Systemfor monitoringhumancapitalconditionalitiesoperating
                        >  Implementationtraining providedto at least 1/2 of municipalities




                                                              36

e ..   e .   .


          L,




                                               m
                                               r-




                  e . . . .    4    . . . e




   .
0 .

                                   Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring


Overall Outcome Indicators. Overall outcome indicators will primarily be monitored using a set of
household surveys:

     0   Household Budget Surveys (POF). This survey instrument collects comprehensive data on
         welfare measures (consumption and income, which could be used for estimating poverty and
         inequality), subjective measures of poverty, and anthropometric measures (for malnutrition). It also
         is the only survey that includes quantitative' questions regarding a comprehensive list of federal
         social programs (pensions, unemployment insurance, and, importantly, conditional cash transfer
         programs). The survey i s nationally-representative(and representative at some sub-national levels)
         with a sample of about 66,000 households. The POF was carried out by IBGE in 2002-03, and
         included quantitative questions on the coverage and receipt o f benefits from the pre-reform
         programs (Bolsa Escola, Bolsa Alimentaqlo and Auxilio Gas).           This provides an excellent
         opportunity for establishing baseline indicators for the Bolsa Familia Program, such as coverage,
         gaps, duplications, and distributional incidence.    The data are being processed and should be
         available for analysis by end May 2004. With the support of the proposed Integrated HD Technical
         Assistance Loan (TAL, under preparation), the next POF would be carried out in 2005. This would
         allow for the evaluation o f overall changes in living conditions (poverty, inequality, and
         malnutrition), as well as many o f the outcome indicators for the BFP.

     0   Beneficiary Surveys. The beneficiary surveys to be conducted under the proposed APL program
         (Component 3) would provide further data on outcome indicators (many outcome indicators,
         including those for education and health). The baseline information would be collected under the
         first project (in 2005) and a follow up survey would be conducted under the second operation (in
         2007) to allow time to gauge impact. See Annex 4 for more information.

Component 1. The results indicators for Component 1 (see Table 1) would be monitored as part of on-
going supervision, relying primarily on administrative data from the program. Data on coverage of the
program are readily available from payments information. The pre-reform programs are gradually being
phased out as beneficiaries are "migrated" to the BFP (or dropped if deemed ineligible). This process is
expected to be completed by 2006. With respect to savings on administrative costs due to the consolidation
o f four programs into one, data will come from administrative information from MDS and Caixa (available
information suggests that making a single payment instead of four separate payments will result in about a
significant reduction intransactions costs).

Technical Components 2-4.         The results indicators for these components are all based on technical
improvements.      These would be monitored as part o f on-going supervision, relying primarily on
administrative data from the program.




                                                      38

                                Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
                                      BRAZIL: BRBolsa Familia

This annex provides details on eachofthe five components: (a) conditional cashtransfers (Component 1);
(b) strengthening the system for identifying the target population (Component 2); (c) developing a
monitoring and evaluation system (Component 3); (d) institutional strengthening for improved service
delivery(Component 4); and (e) project management(Component 5).

                             Component 1- Conditional Cash Transfers
                  (US$6,174 in project costs; US551.5 million inloan financing)

This component would provide support to the Government in consolidating and rationalizing conditional
cash transfers, and in reducing duplications and gaps in coverage o f the BFP, as part of a broader and
balancedstrategy for economic and human capital development.

For this component, the World Bank would reimburse the Treasury a share o f the expenseson conditional
cash transfers made under the BFP during the project period. The category o f financing would be
conditional cash transfers (BF Grant Transfers). As in any investment loan, the World Bank would
disburse against verification o f project expenditures and conformity with the loan conditions. (See Annex
7 for details on financial management and disbursement arrangements).

The proposed project would also build in certain mechanisms to pace disbursements in-line with
performance of the technical aspects.          While the total amount o f financing for Component 1
(US$55 1.5 million) would represent 8.9% of the total cash transfers budget for the BFP, disbursements
and cost-sharing percentageswould be linkedto key milestones of technical improvements. Specifically,
loan proceeds for this component would be made with increasing disbursement percentages that will
increase as the actions listed in Table 2 in Annex 3 are met. The disbursements will start at the rate of
8%, will be increased to 9% when the stage 2 milestones in Table 2 in Annex 3 have been met; and will
be increasedto 11% when the stage 3 milestones inTable 2 inAnnex 3 have been met.

The pacing of disbursements for Component 1with technical improvements to the program (supported by
Components 2-4) has several objectives. First, it would allow the World Bank to partnerwith the BFP in
a pragmatic way, recognizing the important role of the program in the short-run and also the need for
technical improvements inthe program's systems. Second, it would promote stronger synergies between
support of program implementation and on-going safety net consolidation(Component 1) and the specific
support to technical activities to strengthen the basic architecture o fthe program (Technical Components).
Third, it would create incentives for the program implementing agency to achieve, or exceed, the key
milestones for systems improvements and for the Finance and Planning ministries to ensure support for
these crucial technical activities (e.g., if milestones are reached, the loan's financing percentage would
increase and disbursementswould accelerate).

The main indicators for monitoring the results of this component include: (a) the share o f extreme poor
families receivingBFP transfers; (b) the gradual phasing out o f pre-reform programs (such that the former
beneficiaries are either converted to the BFP or dropped from the pre-reform programs); and (c)the
reduction in administrative (including transactions) costs for transfer payments (due to the merging o f
four separate programs into a single integrated program).




                                                      39

        Component2 - Strengtheningthe system for identifyingthe target population2'
                                              (US4.4 million in project costs)

                                                  OBJECTIVESOF COMPONENT

This component seeks to improve the mechanisms used to identify the target population of the Bolsa
Familia program to guarantee its republican, federative, and democratic characteristics. By doing so, the
program will achieve better redistributive efficiency, with a higher share o f its resources going directly to
the poor, and will be able to cover a larger share of the low-income population.


                        RESULTS FRAMEWORK KEY MILESTONESCOMPONENT
                                                          AND                           FOR

The main indicators for gauging the outcomes ofthis component include: (a) the percent oftotal transfers
going to the poor; and (b) the share of the poor covered by the program. These outcomes could be
monitoredthrough the collection of household survey data. Infact, baseline data for these outcomes were
collected in 2002-03 for the pre-reform programs under the Household Budget Survey (POF) and will
soon be available for analysis.

While the component will support numerous specific activities to help overhaul the Cadastro Unico
system used by the BFP to target benefits to the poor, a number of key milestones (outputs) will be
monitoredto gaugethe progress towards meeting these goals, notably:
     0   By December 2004: (a) new Cadastro Unico questionnaires designed; (b) instruments for
         implementing eligibility criteria revised; and (c) normative acts and operational guidelines for the
         Cadastro Unico publishedon MDSwebpage.
    0    By December 2005: (a) data collection strategy designed and piloted; (b) all detectable
         duplications in the Cadastro Unico database eliminated; and (c) Cadastro Unico users (MDS and
         30% o f municipalities) with access to Cadastro Unico data.

                                                      THECADASTRO           UNICO

The accurate identification o f poor households is an important input into the success o fthe BolsaFamilia
Program as a tool.for poverty reduction. The target population for the Bolsa Familia program is poor
families (with per capita incomes less than R$100 per month), with priority given to the extreme poor
families (with per capita incomes less than R$50 per month). Ensuring that the transfers - and the
incentives for human capital investments - actually reach these families i s crucial to the program's
success.

As with its predecessors,the BFP selects beneficiaries from a national database of poor households called
the "Cadastro Unico." The Cadastro Unico was created in 2001 as an initiative to construct a single
beneficiary registry database to serve its many means-tested conditional cash transfer programs. Until
that time, each program operated its own system for identifying and selecting beneficiaries (all via
unverified means testing) and some o f these databases are still not fully compatible with the Cadastro
Unico (e.g., the Bolsa Escola registry, which still includes 3.6 million families). The creation of a unique
database (the Cadastro Unico) and social identification number (NIS) responded to the need to improve
efficiency and coordination, and reduce duplication of administrative costs across the numerous safety net
programs. The N I S has the same numerical structure as the PIS (identification o f workers in the formal

''Formore details, see: de la Briere, Benedicte and Kathy Lindert (2003). "Reforming Brazil's Cadastro Unico to Improvethe Targeting of the
Bolsa Familia Program." World Bank and DFID. Draft ESW. This section also draws on the conclusions of two workshops held inBrasilia in
November 2003 (one on household targeting systems, the other on proxy means testing), on a World Bank-BolsaFamilia workshop held in
December2003, andon further dialogue and consultationsbetweenthe World Bank andthe Bolsa Familiaprogramteam.



                                                                     40

 private sector) and the PASEP (identification of public sector employees) and no new NIS is created if
 one of these two numbersalready exist for an individual.28

 The main screening mechanism used with the Cadastro Unico is unverified household incomes
 (unverified means testing).                 Data collection and beneficiary registry are decentralized to the
 municipalities, but design, operation and maintenance of the database are centralized at the federal level,
 with oversight provided by the Ministry of Social Development (MDS), and system management and
 payments conducted by the Caixa EconGmicaFederal (CEF).29

 There are several advantages to having a single national database for determining and monitoring
 eligibility for social transfer programs, including inter alia: (a) preventing or reducing duplication of
benefits (e.g., people receiving benefits from more than one municipality or program); (b) reducing
duplication o f administrative costs across programs; and (c) monitoring time in the program and
graduation criteria. The Cadastro Unico representsa major step forward inadvancing these goals.

Nonetheless, several aspects of the Cadastro Unico should be improved, including: (a) clarifying its
objectives and institutional structure; (b) distortions due to the use of a priori registry quotas;
(c) distortions due to the use of self-reported income for determining eligibility; (d) problems with the
identification of households; (e) the static nature of the database; (f)the lack o f a system for quality
control; (g) a lack of data access by key potential users (programs, municipalities, MDS); and (h) software
and implementation problems.

                                            PRINCIPLES OF AN IMPROVED SYSTEM

The introduction of the BFP offers an opportunity to revamp Brazil's Cadastro Unico system so as to
improve the identification o f target populations for social transfers and the coordination between
complementary programs with different levels of governments. International experience3' suggests
several principles of good practice for target household identificationsystems:

      0      Transparency. This principle applies to procedures for gaining entry into the registry (e.g., the
             Cadastro Unico) and for determiningeligibility for the program (e.g., the Bolsa Familia program).
             Household identification systems should also adopt internal controls (cross-checks, process
             quality control) and social controls to ensure transparency and consistency.

      0      On-goingaccess to the CadastroUnicofor a dynamic safety net. With this principle, systems
             for the identification of target households should avoid the static nature o f the quota-basedsurvey
             system: any family should be allowed to register at any time (with the explicit understandingthat
             registry does not guarantee benefits).                 An improved system should also allow for on-going
            updates(demographic, location) for those who do benefit, and require regular re-certification.

      0     Minimization of leakages to the non-poor. All programs entail some degree of leakages. In
            fact, some degree of "leakage" to the non-poor is acceptable if: (a) the leakage goes to the very
            near poor; and (b) the costs o f reducing this leakage (in terms o f the financial costs of improved
            target accuracy and the indirect costs that could result from accidentally excluding eligible poor
            families due to barriers to entry) outweigh the benefits of reducing it (interms o fthe savings from

  While these cross-checksare now routinely performed, other cross-checkswith databases such as the NIT, which registers the self-employed,
are still not inplace, generatingsome duplication of identification.
29CEF is a federal savingshedit union organization. Apart from banking services, CEF has traditionally provided payments issuance services
for federal assistance programs. CEF operates its open 2,047 agencies nationwide, and is linked with 8,900 lottery points and 2,000 banking
correspondents. This broadnetwork is supposed to guaranteeits presenceinall Brazilian municipalities, one of the reasonsfor its central role in
managingthe Cadastroh i c o database andpayments issuancefor social programs.
  Castailed4 Tarsicio, Kathy Lindert, Luisa Femandez, and Bknkdicte de la Brihe (2003). "Implementing Household Targeting Systems:
Lessonsfrom LatinAmericaandthe United States." World Bank. Draft ESW.



                                                                     41

         allocating transfers to non-poor households that could instead be used to cover more poor
         households).          Combined geographic and proxy-means tested household targeting systems in
         other countries, have generatedimpressive redistributive outcomes at fairly low

     0   Outreach to the poor. Specific efforts should also be made to ensure that the poor know of their
         potential eligibility for the programand can accessthe application and interviewprocess.

     0   Cost Efficiency. Efforts should be made to minimize the cost of interviewing families, while
         ensuring the integrity of intake efforts. Although it is not possible to ascertain the poverty status
         of families apriori before interviews and data collection (and indeed, that was the problem with
         quota-basedsurveyingunder the current system), certain tools, such as self-selection mechanisms
         and geographic targeting (poverty maps), can help minimize the cost of interviewing large
         numbers of ineligible families.

National experience from some states and municipalities and the Cadastro Unico itself suggests the
following additional principles for Brazil:

     0   National Identification System.                 An inter-governmental working group is evaluating the
         remaining cross-checks necessary to minimize duplications and maximize the issuance of a NIS
         for each individual;

     0   Shared Management of Social Databases Across Levels of Government. While legal norms
         to guarantee access for state and municipal agencies are already in place, their operationalization
         is still lagging.

     IMPROVING THE SYSTEM FORIDENTIFYING THE TARGET                             POPULATION OF THEBFP AND THE
                                                      CADASTRO UNICO

With the above principles in mind, this component seeks to improve the mechanisms usedto identify the
target households of the BFP. The component will mainly focus on the strengthening o f the Cadastro
Unico, Brazil's target household identification and registry system. It also makes reference to specific
actions that can be taken for improving the system for identifyingthe target populationof the BFP that are
(somewhat) independent of the Cadastro Unico (since the BFP is only one o f the users of the Cadastro).
The discussion and ensuing matrices distinguishwhether the proposed reforms and activities apply to the
Cadastro generally, or to the BFP specifically. It i s important also to note that work under another World
Bank supported project (the HD Technical Assistance Loan) is supporting the construction o f micro-area
poverty maps (in IBGE), which could become an important instrument for targeting in Brazil (either on
their own, or as an input intothe CadastroUnico, as discussedbelow).

In terms of general timing, most actions and activities to be supported by the project assume that
preparatory activities would occur in 2004 and 2005 with the goal o f piloting, then rolling out the new
systemas the program expands (and existingbeneficiaries are recertified) in2005-06.

2A.      Improving the Strategic and InstitutionalFramework for the Cadastro Unico

This sub-component seeks to clarify the strategic and institutionalframework for the Cadastro Unico. In
terms of timing, these issues should be addressedby the end of 2004.



"Coady, David, MargaretGrosh, andJohnHoddinott (November2002). "The TargetingofTransfersinDevelopingCountries:Reviewof
Experience and Lessons." The World Bank. Social Safety Net Primer Series. Castafleda, Tarsicio, Kathy Lindert, Luisa Femandez, and
Bknkdictede la Britre (2003). "Implementing Household TargetingSystems: Lessons from LatinAmerica andthe United States." World Bank.
DraftESW.



                                                                42

Issues. First,the uses ofthe Cadastro should be clarified. While the Cadastro was originally designedto
serve multiple conditional cash transfer programs, these have now been merged into a single federal
program (Bolsa Familia). Yet there are numerous potential other uses for the Cadastro, including state
and local programs (provided these governments have access to the data, as discussed below), and even
other federal means-tested programs. Second, there is a need to strengthen institutional arrangements,
clarifying responsibilities of the different agencies involved, including identifying: conceptualization, data
collection, data management, management of the system for identifying possible target populations,
systemsmanagement for registry and payments database, formal and social quality controls, maintenance,
etc. Third, the current Cadastro system mixes the functions o f identifying potential target populations
and registration of beneficiaries to the detrimentof the effectiveness of the system. The primary function
of the Cadastro should be to collect household data on key variables for the purposes of screening these
households against a predetermined set of criteria to determine eligibility. As a secondary function, a
sub-set of these data could then be stored in a program-specific registry (for example for payments and
conditionality monitoring) for each "user program."

Remarks for an Improved System. First, a "user strategy" should be designed to identify potential
users of the Cadastro. There would be many advantagesto expanding the scope of the Cadastro to serve
as a broader tool for social policy at many levels of government, including the cost efficiency gains of
usinga single instrument for multiplepurposesand the incentives this would provide to municipalitiesto
maintain their Cadastro records up-to-date. Second, the primary objective o f the Cadastro Unico should
be to serve as system for identifying the target population. This implies interviewing and registering
more households than will be eligible for any or any specific program (and communicating information
about role of Cadastro to avoid raising expectations will be crucial, see below). A secondary objective
would be for the Cadastro to provide registries for payments and monitoring for specific programs (e.g.,
creating program-specific sub-databaseswith historical and current information for beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries). These sub-databases should be tailored to the needs of each "user program.'' Third, the
new system should embrace clear institutional and financing roles for each aspect o f Cadastro, preferably
with centralized design (with consultations), decentralized data collection (properly financed), and
centralized database management.

MainActivities. Inlight of the above issues and recommendations, this sub-component would support a
number of activities designed to strengthen the overall strategic and institutional framework for the
Cadastro Unico, including:
    0   Developing strategic planning capacity and providing steering guidance for the component; and
    0   Conducting a study to review possible programs by different agencies and levels of government
        that are means-tested and that could benefit from using the Cadastro Unico. The study should
        also identify possible modifications that would be neededto the Cadastro (e.g., the questionnaire
        or the data collection strategy) to serve these programs.

In addition, the Institutional Strengthening Component (Component 4) will contemplate the following
complementary activities to strengthen the Cadastro's institutional structure, including:
    0   Conducting a study to review existing legislation governing the Cadastro Unico and to propose
        appropriate updates as necessary, clearly specifying functions, content, user programs,
        responsible agencies, funding, and outputs;
    0   Conductingan institutional and financing assessment of the existing Cadastro system and develop
        a proposal for reforms and clarifications;
    0   Developing normative acts (decree, reglamento) and operational guidelines regulating the
        Cadastro system, and spellingout general operational rules to be enacted; and




                                                       43

     0   Conducting workshops / seminars for consultations on the strategic and institutional framework
         of the Cadastro Unico.

2B.       Revising Eligibility Criteria (Bolsa Familia Program), New Questionnaires (Cadastro
Unico)and Data Collection Methods

This sub-component seeks to (a) strengthenthe definition and implementationofthe eligibility criteriafor
the Bolsa Familia and revamp the Cadastro Unico questionnaire accordingly; and (b) strengthen the data
collection strategy for the Cadastro Unico. The eligibility and questionnaire aspects should be addressed
bythe end o f2004. The aim would also be to havea solid data collection strategy inplace by 2005, when
most existinghouseholds in the system would need to be re-certified (since most data would be out-of-
date by that time) and when the BFP would begin large-scale expansion (carrying over into 2006 and
2007). A new wave of data collection is thus likely to begin in 2005, and the new system should be in
place to support that. Some piloting of new approaches could occur in 2004 (particularly in large urban
areas not previously covered bythe Cadastro).

Issues with Respect to Eligibility Criteria and Questionnaires. There are several weaknesses under
the current program system. First, the use of unverified incomes for identifying and selecting
beneficiaries i s generally problematic due to measurement errors and incentives for under-reporting and
manipulation. The experience with Brazil's Cadastro Unico is no exception. The income questions inthe
current questionnaire were poorly defined(reference periods, coverage o f types o f income), and, without
any form of verification, there is simply too much room for error and under-reporting. Second, the
current Bolsa Familia Law does not provide any guidance for explicit prioritizing among the poor
(moderate poor vs. extreme poor; families with children vs. individuals or couples with no children, etc.).
With fiscal limitations, clear and transparent guidelines should be established to determine the ranking of
eligible families to enter the program. Third, the Cadastro Unico questionnaire and its associated
manuals, while it did collect proxy information other than self-reported incomes, would benefit from
substantial strengthening (concepts, definitions, structure o fthe questionnaire, manuals, etc.).

Recommendationsfor Eligibility Criteria and Questionnaires. First, the BolsaFamilia Program (and
the Cadastro questionnaire) should shift to a proxy-means tested system (eligibilidade baseado em uma
cesta de indicadores multi-dimensionais). However, the Bolsa Familia Law specifies target groups in
terms of income cutoffs I
(for eligibility criteria).                                       Proxy Means Testing
Nonetheless, it does not       Proxy-means tests use a relatively small number of household characteristics to calculate a
specify how income is to       score that indicates how well off the family is (providing an estimate of its "probability of
be measured. Since self-       being poor").     These characteristics should ideally be easily observed, but not easily
reported       income     is   manipulatedby families, andthey shouldgenerallybe correlatedwith overallwelfare. Typical

unreliable, it could be        variables used in other countries include: geographic location, demographics and household
                               composition, housingquality, ownership of durables, education of adults, availability of public
measured        using:   (a)   infrastructure services, and employment. Locality-level poverty rates (from poverty maps)
predicted            income    could also be used as proxies, reflecting the probability that the family is poor due to its
(predicted based on proxy      location in a particular geographic micro-area. These variables are then weighted using
variables); or (b) a two-      statistical techniques to generate an overall points score. Those families with scores below
                               certain thresholds are then eligible for benefits. Specific variables and weights are generally
step    process     whereby    identified through analysis of household survey data and consultations with policy makers.
self-reported income is        Proxy means tests are generally better at accurately identifying those living in long-term,
the first "filter," and then   chronic poverty than those whose situations have recently worsened due to shocks (transient
it    is    "verified"    or   poor). Since most variables used for proxy-means testing change more slowly than incomes,

"validated" using proxy        updatingandre-certificationofbeneficiariescan be less frequent (say everytwo years).

indicators.           These    Proxy means testing is currently being used in a number of countries with relatively strong
indicators      should   be    redistributiveoutcomes (low leakagerates) and low costs. Another advantage of proxy means
identified on the basis of     systemsis the multi-dimensionalityof the "poverty measure."



                                                         44

empirical analysis of household surveys.                       They should be determined at the national level (for
transparency), but should also build in variables to take into account geographic differences (e.g., urban,
rural, regional). Second, Bolsa Familia should give priority to the extreme poor (before the moderately
poor) andto families with children (over those without). The current Bolsa Familia Law does not address
the issue of eligibility of couples or individuals without children. Bolsa Familia has been giving priority
to families with children, but this policy should be documented in a normative act for transparency.
Finally, the Cadastro Unico questionnaire should be revamped to improve its structure (maximum 2-3
pages), content (including proxy variables), and concepts and reference periods.

IssuesRegardingData CollectionMethods. There are several problems with the current systemof data
collection under the Cadastro Unico. First, the current system is static. It does not allow for on-going
entry of households into the registry. Nor does it have a clear policy on the periodicity of updating and
re-certification. Information for all households in the Cadastro i s rapidly becoming out-of-date. Second,
the current practice of using a priori quotas to limit number o f households, that are interviewed and
registered ineach municipality, results inexcluding potentially poor households before data are collected.
There are several problems with quota-basedregistries, including: (a) a lack o f transparency for deciding
which households get interviewed; (b) opportunities for political manipulation; (c) potential for
replicating existing inequalities at local level. Third, there are many inefficiencies in data collection
methods. More guidance i s needed to municipalities on the menu of possible methods to be used for
collecting data (which would be tailored to local circumstances).

Remarks for an Improved System of Data Collection. First, a policy should be established to clarify
the periodicity of updates and re-certification. Demographic changes should be updated as they occur.
Full information (re-certification) should be conducted at a minimumevery two years. Second, to avoid
the static nature of the current system, the new system should allow for on-demand applications for
registry in the Cadastro Unico on an on-going basis (with information provided to applicants about the
fact that entry into the Cadastro does not guarantee benefits). Third, the use o f apriori quotas for the
registry should be abandoned, and an information campaign should be conducted to avoid raising
expectations among registrants in the Cadastro (to inform people that registry in Cadastro does not
guarantee eligibility in any specific program). Fourth,data collection methods should be tailored to local
realities, depending on density o f poverty, urbankural and cultural-ethnic groups (informed by poverty
map). A menu of approaches should be developed, including on-demand vs. survey methods.32 Fifth,
minimum quality standards should be developed to certify municipal databases, particularly in cases
where municipalities already had their own registries (standards that would allow for the acceptance of
these municipal registries as inputs into the Cadastro). Sixth, a data collection strategy (for the roll out
beginning in 2005) should transparently determine which municipalities would be updated and/or
expanded first. This plan should be objective, based as much as possible on priorities identified by
poverty maps. Practically speaking, it will probably also ,reflect somewhat the pattern of partnerships
@actuaGo"es)beingestablished between the federal Government and specific states and municipalities.

Main Activities. In light o f the above issues and remarks, this sub-component would support a number
of activities designedto (a) strengthenthe eligibility criteria for the BFP, (b) revamp the questionnaire for
the CadastroUnico, and (c) strengthen the systemfor datacollection for the Cadastro Unico, including:
           Conducting studies using household surveys (POF, PNAD) and data in existing Cadastro to
           develop and test an appropriate set of Proxy Means Indicators (variable and weightsQ3;



32For more details, see: de la BriBre, Benedicte and Kathy Lindert (2003). "Reforming Brazil's Cadastro Unico to Improvethe Targeting of the
BolsaFamiliaProgram." World Bank and DFID. Draft ESW.
33The goal would be to identify the variables that best predict welfare (or income) using a random sample of households (from the POF or
PNAD) and using regressionmodels. Given the heterogeneityof living conditions inBrazil, these models should includeregional effects and a
distinctionbetweenurban, peri-urban and rural areas as well as a distinctionfor diverseethno-/cultural-populations.



                                                                      45

            Developing and piloting a new Cadastro questionnaire based on above studies and taking into
            account the diverse geographic, cultural, ethnic and racial characteristics of the population
            (maximum 2-3 page q~estionnaire)~~;
            Reviewing strategies for collecting data in a handful o f municipalities; developing a menu of
            approaches (on-demand, survey approaches, with possibility o f using GPS systems as a data
            collection instrument) depending on poverty density, urbanization, and diverse ethnidracial
            populations; and classifyingmunicipalities according to this menu;
            Developingcriteria for minimumstandards and a processfor certifying local databases;
            Assessing implementation costs (municipal level costs o f interviewing, logistics for data
            collection), developing a strategy for providing financial incentives for data collection, piloting
            incentive scheme;
            Developing manuals and training strategy and materials for interviews (including manuals for
            questionnaire with definitions o f concepts and variables), supervision, administration (describing
            all municipal activities for planning registry work, costing activities, contracting out if needed,
            managing data, and quality controls and transmission of databases), data entry and validation
            software, including specialized training materials to take into account the needto be sensitive to
            the diverse cultural, ethnic and racialcharacteristics ofthe population;
            Printing and distributingnew questionnaires (see Part 2 - questionnaires/eligibility above) and
            manuals;
            Developingchannels and mechanisms for on-demand applications and appeals;
            Piloting new data collection strategy and new questionnaires in a handful o f municipalities o f
            differing characteristics and evaluatingpilot;
            Conducting training on data collection methods and questionnaires, particularly in municipalities
            that are poorer or have weaker administrationcapacity; and
            Rollingout new data collection system (with new questionnaires).

The corresponding sections of the operational guidelines clarifying (a) eligibility issues for the BFP
(criteria, measurement, definitions of families, exit criteria, etc.) and (b) policies for updates and re-
certification; data collections strategies; process and criteria for certifying minimum standards for
municipal databases, will be drafted as an activity of the Institutional Strengthening Component
(Component 4).

2C.         ReducingAdministrativeWeaknessesinCadastro UnicoSystem

This sub-component seeks to strengthen the accuracy of the Cadastro Unico by developing systems
controls and checks to reduce administrativeweaknesses present inthe current / original system. Many o f
these cross-checks could already be implemented for the existingCadastro databasefor use in 2004 (some
already are).        They should also be built into the design of the new overall system (functions and
technology).

Issues. Weaknesses in identification o f individuals and a lack o f internal and cross-system controls have
resultedin administrative errors, duplications and ghost registrants inthe Cadastro Unico. As part of the
Bolsa Familia reforms, some o f these errors are being cleaned up. However the new system needs to be
strengthened so as to detect and correct for these errors on a systematic (automated) basis. In addition,
the new focus of the BFP on the family rather than the individual as the assistance unit presents the
additional challenge of tracking the identities both of individuals, and o f individuals linkedto family units
(to ensure that individuals don't benefit inmore than one family unit).


34A Cadastro questionnaire should be developed on the basis of information from the various programs that would use it (including but not
limited to the BFP) so that it collects the variables neededfor these specific programs(which might differ ineligibility measures and criteria).



                                                                        46

Remarks for an Improved System. First, the new system should adopt a single social identification
number (NIS) that can be used to cross-check identities (a) within the Cadastro system at any point in
time and with past data; and (b) between the Cadastro and other relevant databases. Second, the new
systemcould also use "soundex number" method of checking matchesand near-matchesof a specified set
of characteristics (including the NIS) within the Cadastro and between the Cadastro and other databases.
Third, the new system should build in automated checks to cover key ccflags,"including: duplications,
identity issues, address issues, ghost registrants (checking for example against obituary registry), missing
information, and zeros (e.g., zero income). Fourth,the new system shouldbe able to link individuals and
families.    Fifth, the new system should find an institutional way to help people get needed
documentation.

Main Activities. In light of the above issues and remarks, this sub-component would support a number
of activities designed to detect and correct for administrative errors in the Cadastro Unico database,
including:
    0   Reviewing existing database with respect to possible duplications; reviewing possible cross-
        checks within the Cadastro and between systemsthat could facilitate confirmation of identityand
        reduction of ghost registrants; and developing specified targets for duplications, missing
         information, people without IDnumbers, etc.;
    0   Conducting cross-checks on the consistency o f the Cadastro Unico with data in the Population
        Census
    0   Developing and piloting strategy and system for: (a) adopting the NIS and helping potential
        applicants obtain needed documentation and NIS numbers; (b) runningautomated within-system
        "soundex style" cross checks and other forms of verification; (c) running automated cross-
        systems checks; and
    0   Developing a strategy and materials for training (videos, materials, courses, etc.) on the new
        identity systems and checks and conducting training of (a) local officials for verifying identity,
        helping individuals obtain documentation, and runningcross-checks duringregistry and interview
        process; (b) central officials for runningbetween-systems cross-checks on a periodic basis.


2D.     ImprovingInformation Technology(IT) and the TechnicalEfficiencyof the Cadastro Unico
System

This component seeks to strengthen the IT capacity of the Cadastro Unico unit in MDS (and in its
collaboration with the CEF) and in municipalities (for data entry, validations, transfers, management,
verifications and cross-checks, data warehousing, use by user programs and formulation of demands to
the databasemanager, the CEF).
Issues. Numerous IT problems hamper the efficient functioning o f the Cadastro system, including:
(a) problems with uploading data from municipal databases; (b) lack o f real time data access at various
agencies and levels o f Government (including in MDS, municipalities, other potential users), (c) data
losses intransfers; (d) lack o f internal automated systems checks; (e) lack of ability o f the Cadastro Unico
database to converse with other databases for systems checks; (f) inability o f system to accept updates or
maintain registrant history across updates / time; and (g) a general lack o f user-friendliness that greatly
hampers the ability o f municipalities and federal programs to access and use the data for program
management. While issues (a) to (f) are dealt with inthe discussion of the new management contract with
CEF, the Bolsa Familia unit in MDS and some municipalities need support to increase their data user
capacity for program management.

Remarks for New System.             Following a thorough assessment o f the hardware, software, and
communications needs o f the whole Cadastro system (all involved agencies, including the federal, state,


                                                      47

and local agencies), the component would support activities to: (a) clarify and define the functional needs
and demands of the users (mainly MDS and municipalities); and (b) supervise the piloting of the new
Caixa system. The component would also seek to enhance IT capacity in MDS (for managing the
Cadastro Unico data and for using it for social assistance programs management, including the Bolsa
Familia Program), and at the state and municipal levels through training and increased hardwarehoftware
capacity.

Main Activities. In light of the above issues and remarks, this sub-component would support a number
of activities designed to improve the IT and efficiency and capacity o f the Cadastro Unico agency users,
including:
    0    Conducting a needs assessment on hardware and software for improved system for the MDS
         (Cadastro Unico Unit),states and municipalities;
    0    Supervising the pilot test of the new Cadastro Unico system in the Caixa (CEF) and contracting
         an outside expert to review pilot results;
        Purchasingnew software and hardware for MDSandmunicipalities; and
    0    Conducting IT capacity building and training at federal (MDS and CEF) and sub-national levels
         (agencies involved in Cadastro Unico system either as producers, managers or users of the data),
         as part of an integral "municipal-support kit" (that would include the training, manuals, and the
         equipment and software).




                                                    48


             .
                     C
                    0




                 . .
                 m




                 . . .    3 . 5 8 .




        . . .
0  .  .

*




. . .            . .

I




  e




C
i
L e   e

L

I
I
:
E

f
C

? e         e

L



L
L
L
2
C




?
e
i
,
?
5
I!
L
E
I




  e          e




  e    0

                Component 3 -Monitoringand Evaluationof the BolsaFamilia Program
                                       (US$7.0 millioninprojectcosts)

                                        OBJECTIVESOF COMPONENT

This component seeks to support the Bolsa Familia Program (BFP) in designing and implementinga results-
based monitoring and evaluations system aimed at: (a) monitoring the effectiveness of program delivery,
(b) monitoringprocessesand instituting quality control reviews aimed at promoting public accountability and
legitimacy, and (c) monitoring outcomes and assessing the program impacts at both the territorial and
household levels.

                      RESULTSFRAMEWORKKEYMILESTONESCOMPONENT
                                               AND                      FOR

While the component will support numerous specific activities to help develop a results-basedM&Esystem,
a number of key milestones (key results) will be monitored to gauge progress towards meeting these goals,
including:

    0   By December 2004: (a) terms of reference for design of the management information system (MIS)
        prepared; (b) inventory o f existing inter-governmental partnerships for monitoring and evaluation
         completed; (c) terms o f reference for designing and conducting Quality Control Reviews developed;
         and (d) terms of reference for baseline beneficiary survey prepared.
    0   By December 2005: (a) adequate MIS developed and operational; (b) Quality Control Review for
        core BF processes developed and piloted in at least 10 municipalities; and (c) baseline of survey
        deignedand piloted inat least 10municipalities.

                  DEVELOPINGA MONITORINGEVALUATION AND                 SYSTEMFORTHEBFP

The monitoring and evaluation system proposed by the BFP includes four main sub-components:
(3.A) Management Information System to improve effectiveness o f program delivery; (3 .B)Processes
monitoring and quality control to ensure accountability and legitimacy; (3.C) Monitoring of outcomes and
impact assessment at the municipal and household levels, and (3.D) Design and oversight of overall M&E
system by external advisors.

3.A.    ManagementInformation System

The objective o f this sub-component is to assistthe BF team in developing a MIS to gather and process real
time information that is crucial for project management and implementation supervision. Once inplace, the
system will be able to instantaneously supply information about various implementation indicators to the
project managementteam and policy makers alike. A list of such indicators i s found in Table 2 below.

The MISdeveloped under this sub-component will gather and process information heldby Caixa Economica
Federal (CEF), municipal governments and the education and health ministries. Regular newsletters and
reports with detailed information on program delivery will be prepared and sent to key policy makers at
federal, state and municipal levels as well as representatives o f indigenous peoples and Quilombola
communities. A web site will also be developed to provide real time information on program delivery and
outreach status.

This sub-component would support the following activities for the setting up of an MIS for the BFP: (a) the
design, training o f staff and implementation o f the M I S system; (b) MIS software and hardware equipment;
(c) system maintenance and updating; (d) operational costs for project period; (e) training and dissemination
workshops for MIS users (including federal, state andmunicipal government staff and policy makers).



                                                       52

3.B.       Monitoring of Processesand Quality Control

This sub-component seeks to strengthen the efficacy and to promote transparency, accountability, and
legitimacy of the BFP with activities in three main areas: (a) monitoring of inter- and intra-governmental
processes; (b) quality control reviews to monitor core BFP processes at a downstream level (local,
beneficiaries) to ensure accountability, legitimacy and transparency of program execution by establishing
effective incentive mechanisms for decentralized implementation, and (c) the promotion of citizen oversight
("social control") for the implementationofthe BFP by local stakeholders.

Monitoring of Inter- and Intra-Governmental Processes. For this area, the project will support a series of
activities aimed at: (a) creating a continuously updateable inventory of programs implemented by states and
municipal governments, as well as by civil society, (b) assembling an inventory o f current legal agreements
(puctuaq6es)establishing partnerships between state, municipal and federal governments for decentralized
program implementation, (c) compiling existing local partnerships (puctuaq6es)between civil society and
local governments for social program implementation, and (d) mapping inter-dependencies between line
ministries at the federal Government level which may either hinder or facilitate program implementation.
Specific activities for this area include: (i)           designing and carrying out the inventory o f existingprograms and
partnerships (puctuaqo"es),as well as maintaining the inventories updated; (ii)                            workshops to disseminate the
results ofthe inventory; and (iii) studies insix differentmunicipalities to validate inventory.
                                            case

Quality Control Reviews for Monitoring of Core BFP Processes. For this area, the project will support
the design and execution of random annual Quality Control (QC) Reviews at the municipal and beneficiary
level to verify: (a) beneficiary identification procedures and eligibility35;(b) compliance by BF beneficiaries
with human-capital conditionalities and the system for verifying and reporting on this; (c) receipt of
payments by BF beneficiaries; and (d) beneficiary satisfaction and feedback on the program. The QC
Reviews will also seek to establish how quickly eligibility information gets out o f date due to changes in
economic and demographic circumstances (which could inform policies on updating and recertification).
The QC Review process will be defined during project implementation, but the current scheme envisages
that a random sample of numerous municipalities would be drawn each year. From each municipality, a
further random sample of beneficiary families will be selected. Specific activities for these QC Reviews
include: (a) designing the QC Review instruments, sampling strategy, and implementing periodic field
surveys in 50 municipalities per year; (b) conducting workshops and disseminating publications with results
of the QC Reviews; and (c) developing program re-design strategies to address implementation issues
identifiedby the QC Reviews. The terms o f reference for these Quality Control Reviews would be designed
in2004 andannual reviewswould be carriedout in2005 and2006.

Citizen Oversight (Social Control).                     Citizen oversight can also serve as an important mechanism for
monitoring the BFP. The Government has already taken an important step to support citizen oversight by
publishingthe names o f beneficiaries in a public manner.                            In addition, this component will support the
following activities designed to strengthen citizen oversight:                             (a) a mapping and typology of existing
manifestations o f social control mechanisms in a sample o f municipalities (in a diversity o f cultural, ethnic
and racial settings); (b) workshops to disseminate the results of this social control mapping; and
(c) conducting in depth case studies to describe and analyze manifestations of social control. In addition,
citizen oversight (social control) will be supported by the other components and sub-components via the
publication of policies, procedures, study/survey results, the development o f an information hotline to
respond to questions about the BFP, etc.



35These controls would seek to verify information collectedin the Cadastrowith re-interviewsand verification of information usingboth the current
and the original referenceperiodsof the original interview. This would allow for officials to gauge the accuracy of information collected at the time
of the original interview, and to determine how quickly such information becomes outdated (e.g., changes in household composition and socio-
economic circumstances), which would provide feedback as to the quality of information inthe Cadastro(and identify sources of errors) and as to the
frequencywith which such information needs to be updated(re-certified).


                                                                   53

3.C.       Monitoringof Outcomesand ImpactAssessment

This sub-component will support the monitoring of outcomes and assessment o f program impact at two
levels: (a) territorial-level outcomes, and (b) family-level outcomes. These two levels of analysis are
mutually reinforcing, since, for example, the analysis of territorial-level outcomes can provide important
contextual information for the analysis of family-level outcomes, and vice versa.                                       A combination of
complementary qualitative and quantitative methods will be usedto monitor and evaluate outcomes for both
levels of analysis.

Territorial-Level Outcomes. The objectives of territorial-level analysis are (a) to examine the potential
impact of the BFP at a broader socio-economic level; (b) to assess the functioning and interactions of the
BFP with other complementary programs and services; and (c) to provide broader contextual information
that could also be useful in assessing impact at the household level. The unit o f analysis would be a
territorial reference base (e.g., sub-municipality, municipality, with a diverse representation of cultural and
ethnic populations, and/or regional area). The indicators to be monitored include a variety of economic
indicators, social indicators, the supply of public services and complementary programs, and social capital
and other social themes (see Table 2 below). These indicators will be monitored and analyzed using spatial
analysis techniques.

Data sources will include existing data, imputations between existingdata sources, and the collection of new
data. First, the monitoring and evaluation of outcomes at the territorial level will use existing and newly
collected data at the municipal level. Existing data sources include the national population census, the
national educational census carried periodically by the Ministry of Education, and administrative data from
the Ministry of Health and other line ministries. Second, imputation methods (such as those developed by
Lanjouw et. ai. inthe World Bank for poverty mapping) can be usedto further expand the spatial database o f
indicators at the municipal level by combining census and sample data from large national surveys (e.g.,
PNAD, POF, etc.). Third, In addition to supporting the conformation o f a municipal level data base from
existingdata sources, this component will also support data gathering o f some key municipal level indicators
that may not be available elsewhere. Finally, these quantitative data sources will be complemented by the
use of focus groups (e.g., o f beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries, local program managers, etc.) and other
qualitative methods to monitor territorial impacts on social aspects, such as citizenship (cidadania).

Family-Level Outcomes. The objectives of family-level analysis will be to: (a) monitor the living
conditions of BFP beneficiaries; and (b) evaluate the impact of the BFP. The indicators to be monitored
include the economic and social conditions o f the family, the family's access to other public services and
programs, and indicators to gauge the beneficiaries' knowledge of and satisfaction with the BFP (beneficiary
satisfaction survey), as shown in Table 2. A combination of qualitative and quantitative methods will be
usedfor the analysis of household-level outcomes.

First, several participatory qualitative instruments will be used to monitor and evaluate the impact of the
BFP at the family level. Anthropological and ethnological case studies will be conducted. These will be
complemented by the use o f focus groups, life histories (Zinhas de vida) and other methods, which can
greatly enhance our understanding of the impact of the program on key social indicators and the interactions
that the program has with other aspects o f living conditions (including citizen participation, complementary
services, etc.) especially for traditionally disadvantaged groups.

Second, this sub-component will support the collection of baseline survey data from a sample of program
benefi~iaries.~~      This will facilitate the monitoringof changes inliving conditions for these BFP beneficiaries



36As explained in Annex 3, another opportunity for analyzingsome of the neededquantitative outcome indicatorscomes from the HouseholdBudget
Surveys (POF), These surveys collect comprehensive information on welfare measures (income, consumption) and anthropometric data (for
malnutrition), as well as quantitative information on key social programs, including conditional cash transfers. The first nationally-representative


                                                                     54

(see Table 2 for example indicators). While the design of the survey will be defined during project
implementation, the current concept is that program participants (from diverse geographic, cultural, racial
and ethnic settings) included inthe sample will be interviewedright after receivingtheir magnetic cards, but
just before being able to make their first cash withdrawal. This approach will have two advantages:
(a) families will already know of their eligibility for the program, and would thus understand that their
answers to the baseline survey would not affect their chances of being accepted into the program; and
(b) data would be collected before the paymentscan begin to have an impact (hence it would be a baseline
survey).

Data for the baseline survey will be collected on an on-going basis (as families are registered into the
program), beginning in 2005. A follow up survey will be conductedtwo years later (in 2007), and would be
supportedby the second-phase APL project. Data would thus be available for "pre-program" (baseline) and
"post-program" impact analysis and monitoring.

In terms of impact evaluation methodologies, it would also be desirable to survey a "control" group of
similar non-participant households (so as to generate comparison data of those "with" and "without" the
program). The express delineation of a "control" group - that would be denied program benefits despite
eligibility - raises ethical and political concerns. Indeed, officials from MDS have expressed such concerns.
An interestingalternative would be to include in the survey a sample of non-participant families that were
registered in the Cadastro Unico but were not selected into the BFP because they did not meet eligibility
criteria. Surveyingthese excluded householdswill allow for two valuable types of analysis: (i) assessment                an
of the efficacy of the registration process through the Cadastro Unico, by verifying if excluded households
are in fact less deprived than beneficiaries, and (ii) assessment of the impact of the program on household
                                                                    an
level socio-economicindicators via the method of regressiondiscontinuity design (see Hahn, Todd and Van
der Klaauw, 2001). The baselineand follow up surveys will interview these non-participantfamilies.37

3.D.      Design and Oversight of the Overall M&E System

This sub-component will support the creation of an external advisory group of national and international
experts to assist the BFP in the design and implementation of the overall M&E. Specific activities to be
supported by this component include: (a) hiring of national and international consultants to assist with the
design and oversight of M&E system; and (b) workshops with national and international consultants to
discuss and disseminate the overall design of the M&E system with the program management team and
policy makers alike.




POF was carriedout in2002-03, and hencepresents a "natural" baselinefor many indicatorsfor the BFP. A follow up POF will likely be carried out
in2005 with the support ofthe proposedIntegratedHDTAL. These POFsurveyswill providesome(but not all) ofthe indicatorsneeded.
"However,extracareneedsto betakento ensurethatnon-participantwill provideaccurateinformationby assuringthemthattheir chancesof
eventuallygettingthe programwill not be affected by their answersto the interview.


                                                                   55

. ...



                            ...
                              Y




3 . .  8         z...
                  a
      L...... . .    .
                         a

       m
       a




.           .       . .
     0 . .       0 .




          .  . .       .              .
0  .                          0  .




.            . . .            . .
                        62    E
                        L     m     B
                                    5"
                              C     a




. . . .                       . ....

T

   T




..i
a
ie

de

.I
CC
;
c
t
P


TE


'i
tC
.-e
C

$
4c      W


C
9C
C

cI
!

ca
zc

                              Component4 -InstitutionalStrengthening
                                     (US$3.2 millioninproject costs)

                                       OBJECTIVES OF COMPONENT

This component would support the strengthening ofthe basic institutional functioning ofthe BFP interms
of: (a) strengthening the overall and operational framework for the program; (b) strengthening program
management; (c) developing a solid communications and dissemination strategy; and (d) piloting
innovative approachesto service delivery.

                  RESULTS FRAMEWORKKEY MILESTONESCOMPONENT
                                              AND                      FOR

The main results of this component include the accomplishment of a set of activities such as: the
publication of a matrix o f key functional and institutional responsibilities; the publication of the BF
beneficiary information booklets (cudernetus); an operating system for the verification of beneficiary
compliance to human capital conditionalities; and training on BF implementationprovided to at least half
of BF municipalities. A number of key milestones (outputs) could be monitored to gauge the progress
towards meetingthese goals, they include:

e   By December 2004: (a) matrix of key functional and institutional responsibilities published;
(b) beneficiary information booklets (cadernetus)designed.
e   By December 2005: (a) system for verifying human capital conditionalities developed and piloted in
at least 5 municipalities; (b) beneficiary information booklets (cudernetus)distributed.

                             MAIN   ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED BY COMPONENT

4.A.     StrengtheningInstitutionalFrameworkfor BFP

A key step towards strengthening the overall and operational institutional framework of the BFP is the
definition o f the normative and legal architecture o f the program. Activities inthis area would include the
completion and publication o f neededregulumentos, or norms, on the design and functioning of both the
BFP and the Cadastro Unico. For example, the specific definition of BFP conditionalities for beneficiary
family members example should be clarified. The periodicity o f re-certification o f family data in the
Cadastro Unico also needs to be defined. The definition of proxy variables to predict or validate income
for eligibility criteria also needs to be legally established. Guidelines to register and include indigenous
and Quilombola families inthe Cadastro Unico and the BFP should be clearly defined. These regulations
could be documented and disseminated in the operational guidelines (regulamentos) of the BFP. The
design of the overall operational framework and functions of oversight o f its implementation could be
carried out by a committee, a group of consultants or advisors, such as those set up for the other
components. These system design and oversight activities would be supported by technical and capacity
buildingassistance.

4.B.     StrengtheningProgramManagement

The project will also support the strengthening o f program management in two key areas: (a) the
institutional arrangements for the core BFP functions; and (b) mechanisms for inter- and intra-
governmental partnerships.

First, the institutional arrangements for core BFP functions needto be clarified. This would include the
definition of a matrix o f key institutional responsibilities among all actors involved (MDS, SENARC,
CEF, municipalities, line ministries, etc.). This would greatly improve program implementationand build


                                                     60

institutional accountability and credibility. The project will also support the definition and clarification of
institutional roles and information flows for the CadastroUnico. Inaddition, a (decentralized) systemand
information flows for monitoring beneficiary compliance with health and education conditionalities
would be defined. Capacity building and training on the verification o f human capital conditionalities
would also be supported. The project would also support the development of a strategy for operating the
program inremote areas.

Second, mechanisms for inter- and intra-governmental partnerships will be defined. The BFP is currently
pursuingnumerous partnerships with states and municipalities. These partnerships take several different
forms. Some seek to integrate local cash transfer programs with the BFP in order to expand the number
o f beneficiaries or increase the level o f benefits (or both). Others seek to link BFP beneficiaries with
complementary services and programs at the local level. The project will also support the development of
an Information Network (Rede) across municipalities (to share good practices, experience, etc.). At the
federal level, the BFP is also currently defining intra-governmental roles. The project will also support a
study to explore the possibility of integratingother programs with the BFP.

4.C.     Developing a Communications and Dissemination Strategy

The institutional strengthening component will support the development of a solid communications and
public information strategy. This will help promote the program, generate awareness o f the program,
beneficiary compliance with conditionalities, and support the credibility and legitimacy of the program. It
will also serve as an instrument to support citizen oversight (social control). The sub-component will
support the following activities: (a) the design o f an information strategy that will consider the
information needs of specific groups including culturally, ethnically, and racially distinct groups; (b) the
development of a "hotline" number with trained operators to answer questions on the BFP and on the
Cadastro Unico; (c) publications and editingservices; and (d) the design, publication and dissemination of
beneficiary information booklets (cudernetus),including information about benefits and conditionalities.
The latter would become an important tool for promotingprogram take-up and conditionality compliance.

4.D.     Promoting the Empowerment (Emancipagcio)of BFP Beneficiaries

This sub-component would support the identification and evaluation of initiatives to help BFP
beneficiaries to develop tailored empowerment strategies("emuncipa@`o'' strategies) and to gain access to
complementary programs and services (bridging services).            These initiatives could involve various
approaches, including: (a) social worker support to help beneficiaries develop these empowerment
(emuncipu@o) strategies and bridging access to complementary services; and/or (b) the development of
"one-stop shops'' where beneficiaries can gain access to information about a variety of social services
(including the BFP). Some similar experiences have also been developed at the local level in Brazil and
inother countries. The sub-component would thus support: (a) internationalstudy tours and exchangesto
share information on these various "empowerment" and "bridging" approaches; (b) consultancies and
workshops to identify and evaluate such approaches; and (c) training and capacity building for
beneficiaries, trainers (multiplicudores) andprogram managers(gestores).




                                                    61

                                    m
                                    .e
                                    M




             . . . . .. .       ....
                           0 . .




        .                             .
0   .  .     0  . . . . .
                         m
                         0
                         e,
                         .e
                         Y




     . .           .
0 .         0   .

                                Component5 -Project Management
                                           (US$0.7 million)

The project will support a strengthening of the implementation capacity o f MDS.         To provide such
support, the proposed Project will finance incremental costs related to management and supervision of
Project activities. These costs include consultants that would support strategic, technical and operational
aspects of the project, as well as equipment and travel expenses.          The arrangements for project
implementation are discussed inAnnex 6.




                                                    63

                                                   Annex 5: Project Costs
                                               BRAZIL: BRBolsa Familia


                                                                              Local            Foreign                Total
     Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                 us                 us                   us
                                                                           $million           $million             $million
                                                                                6,174.0                  0.0           6,174.0
     1. Conditional CashTransfers38


                                                                                     2.8                 1.2                4.0
     2. Systemfor Identifyingthe Target Population


     3, Developing a Monitoring and Evaluation                                       7.0                 0.1                 7.1
     System

     4. Institutional Strengthening for Improved                                     2.9                 0.3                 3.2
     Service Deliverv

                                                                                     0.7                 0.0                 0.7
     5. Project Management Support


     Total Baseline Cost                                                           13.4                  1.6               15.0
      Physical Contingencies                                                         0.3                 0.1                 0.4
      Price Contingencies"                                                          -0.3                 0.1                -0.2
                                           Total Project Costs                     13.4                  1.8               15.2
                                                     Front-end Fee                     -                 5.7                 5.7
                                 Total Financing Required               1       6,187.4                  7.5   1       6,194.9




  The total World Bank loan is US$572.2 million. This includes US$551.5 million that would be reimbursed to the Treasury for a share of
expenditures on conditional cash transfers under the BFP, which are funded with government resources that are largely earmarked for that
purpose.
39Price contingencies are generated by the COSTAB system on the basis of assumptions regarding projected inflation and exchange rate
movements.



                                                                  64

                    Annex 6: Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
                                     BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

1.      Implementationperiod

The project i s expected to be implemented over a period of two years and four months (,,;st phase A
with a completion date o fJune 30,2006 and a closingdate o fDecember 31, 2006.

2.      Borrowerand ImplementationAgencies for the BolsaFamiliaProgram

The Borrower will be the Federative Republic of Brazil. The BFP i s beingmanaged and implementedby
the SecretariaNacional de Rendade Cidadania(SENARC, Secretariat for Citizen Income) inthe newly-
createdMinistryo f Social Development (MDS).MDSwas created on January 23,2004 with the objective
of further integrating the management of Brazil's social programs (as part of a broader integration
strategy that also covered the integration of conditional cash transfer programs into the BFP). The MDS
integrated three previous entities, including the Extraordinary Ministry for Food Security (MESA), the
Ministryof SocialAssistance (MAS), andthe Executive Secretariat for the BolsaFamiliaProgram (which
was previously under the Presidency).

The MDS structure includes inter alia an Executive Secretariat (SECEX) under the Minister, which
oversees two special departments, a Directorate of Special Projects (DPE) and a Secretariat for planning,
budget and procurement (SPOA), and which supervises the activities o f five secretariats, including the
SecretariaNacional de Renda de Cidadania (SENARC); a secretariat for other social assistance programs
(e.g., BPC-LOAS, PETI, Agente Jovem); a secretariat for food security; a secretariat for policy
formulation (articulaGZo) ; and a secretariat for monitoring, evaluation and capacity building. The
SENARC overseesthe operations o f the Bolsa Familia Program. The BFP is also guided by the decisions
of the President, supported by the recommendations of management board (Comiti?Gestor do Programa
Bolsa Familia), which is responsible for policy coordination and promoting partnerships between the
various sectors and levels of government and with civil society. Institutional arrangements for various
functions o fthe program also involve a number of other actors, as discussed inAnnexes 1(general) and 7
(financial).

3.      ProjectManagement

As discussed elsewhere, the proposed project would adopt a program-based sector-wide approach
(Program-Based SWAp) in order to associate disbursementsunder the World Bank loan with sector-wide
reforms that integrate the main federal conditional cash transfer programs into the Government's flagship
social program, the BFP. By taking advantage o f Brazil's sound institutional and fiduciary framework,
the Program-Based SWAp is expected to increasecommitment, impact and flexibility.

Consistent with this approach, and to promote a mainstreaming o f project activities and to contribute
value added to the overall BFP, the proposed project will build on the organizational and leadership
structures of MDS. Specifically, it will be headedby the Executive Secretary (SECEX) and managed by
a Core Management Committee (CMC, Nucleo de GestZo), which will be comprised o f the managers
from the relevant units o f MDS: SECEX, DPE, SENARC, the Secretariat o f Monitoring and Evaluation,
and the Coordinator o f the PIU (see below). Functionally, this Core Management Committee will be
divided into two areas: a Technical Secretariat and a ProjectImplementationUnit (PIU).




                                                     65

          FIGURE1 PROJECTMANAGEMENTWITHINTHE STRUCTUREOFMDS(FOR
                     -
                                            COMPONENTS2-5)




                                             EXECUTIVE
                                            SECRETARIAT




                                             NUCLEODE
                                                 GESTAO



                       SECRETARIAT

                           DPE       I
                                                                             SENARC


                       (-2-
                         COMP 2




                                                       PLANNING

                                                          &              PROCUREMENT         FINANCIAL

                                                       SUPERVISION                          MANAGEMENT




TechnicalSecretariat. The Technical Coordinator for the project (likely to be the Director of the DPE;
and serving on the CMC) will be supported by a technical team and will be responsible for establishing
the technical directives and activities of the project, ensuring the solidity o f their content, and ensuring
that they are consistent with the objectives o f the project and the directives established by the CMC. This
technical team would consist of full-time consultants, including: (a) a technical assistant to assist the
Technical Coordinator with overall technical coordination; and (b) an advisory committee for each of the
three technical components, consisting of technical specialists and technical assistants. This technical
team will be responsible for: (a) ensuring that the content o f the activities to be implemented under the
project is consistent with the directives of the CMC and the directions o f the BFP; (b)overseeing
technical design and implementation; (c) planning and monitoring the technical project components;
(d) preparing technical specifications and terms of reference for contracting consultant services; and
(e) working with ad hoc technical consultants/advisors to be hired for eachtechnical component.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Coordinator of the PIU will be designated by the Executive
Secretariat of MDS and will likely also be the Director of Operations of the SENARC. The PIU will be
responsible for: (a) on-going planning and supervising o f the project; (b) verifying that the operational
procedures, as established in the Loan Agreement and in the Operational Manual, are being complied
with; (c) administration of project activities, including agreements, contracts, procurement and the
Procurement Plan; (d) preparing reports on financial performance and disbursement; (e) tracking project
funds; (f) contracting independent technical audits; (g) providing operational guidance to the units in


                                                       66

charge of implementation of project activities; (h) supervisingcompliance with these guidelines; and (i)
preparing progress reports on the project (including technical and operational activities, and compliance
with operational guidelines) and submitting these to the World Bank every four months. To accomplish
the requirements o f the project described above the PIU will be supported by the Operations Department
in SENARC and will be staffed by MDS officials and with following key personnel (in addition to the
PIUCoordinator):

    0   Overall Project Operations Support: The PIU Coordinator will be assisted by a technical
        assistant (full-time consultant) for overall operations coordination. An IT specialist (full-time
        consultant) will also be hiredto support the entire project team.
    0   Project Coordination,Planningand Supervision: The team will include a technical specialist
        and a technical assistant (both full-time consultants) for planning and supervision. This team
        would be responsible for overseeing and monitoring the project, preparing annual and updated
        project plans and preparingproject progress reports.
    0   Procurement: Two procurement specialists (one full-time consultant and one ad hoc consultant)
        who will be responsible for: (i)overall procurement processing; (ii)annually updating the
        Procurement Plan; (iii)  ensuring that the activities financed by the project follow the procedures
        established in the Guidelines of the Bank and in the Loan Agreement. (See Annex 8 for more
        details).
    0   FinancialManagement: A financial manager (staff member) with the overall responsibility for
        financial management       and administration of the project, who will liaise with STN for
        Component 1, oversee the preparation of the financial management sections o f the Operational
        Manual, and train staff on the operation of the SIAFI (Sistema Integrado de Administraqiio
       Financiera) system. This financial manager will be assisted by two accountants who will be
        responsible for: (i)preparation of Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for Components 2-5;
        ($preparations    of consolidated FMRs to be sent to the World Bank (see Annex 7); and
        (iii)
            ensuring that the records o f the project will be kept for the annual audit by SFC (Secretaria
       Federal de Controle) and World Bank supervision. (See Annex 7 for more details).

4.      ImplementationStrategy

Implementationof Component 1. Component 1will support the implementation ofthe BFP, which will
provide conditional cash transfers (grants) to poor families (as described in Annex 1). The BFP i s
implemented by the SENARC in the MDS, in partnership with the Caixa EconGmica Federal (CEF) and
the municipalities. Institutional arrangements for the BFP are discussed in more detail above and in
Annex 1. Disbursement requests for Component 1 will be made directly by the Treasury (STN), as
discussed in Annex 7.

Implementationof Technical Components. The other components (Components 2, 3, 4 and 5) will be
implemented as per the arrangements discussed above and according to the procurement guidelines
outlined inAnnex 8 and the financial management arrangementsoutlined inAnnex 7.

Disbursements. Disbursement arrangements for all components are discussed inAnnex 7

OperationalManual (OM). In order to reduce implementationdelays and define roles, responsibilities,
mechanisms, schedules and accountability arrangements, the Operations Team will prepare a draft of an
Operational Manual o f the project (enactment would be a condition o f effectiveness). The O M will
include conditions necessary for implementation of the project such as: institutional arrangements;
operational procedures (including a system for monitoring and verification o f conditionalities, eligibility
procedures); procurement and contracting procedures, sample standard bidding documents and filing



                                                    67

instructions (including for QCBS and NCB); disbursement and financial management procedures,
including template FMRs; auditing procedures; and supervision, project administration, monitoring and
progress reports, and evaluation plans; and Performance Indicators. The OM will also include procedures
for carryingout Component 1, including financial reportingand disbursementprocedures.




                                                   68

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                                     BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

A financial managementrisk assessment ofthe BolsaFamilia Program (BFP) was conducted. As discussed
inAnnex 6, the proposed project will be implemented by the Ministryof Social Development (MDS)at the
federal level. The assessment was carried out in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for
Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank Financed Projects issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on October 15,2003.

The overall objective of the assessment was to determine whether the Borrower has, or will have,
acceptable financial management arrangements in place by loan effectiveness. These include, but are not
limited to, capacity to (a) properly manage and account for all program's proceeds, expenditures and
transactions; (b) produce timely, accurate and reliable program financial statements and reports, including
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), for general and Bank special purposes; (c) safeguard program's
assets; (d) engage independent auditors acceptableto the Bank in a timely way; and (d) disburse Bank funds
inaccordanceto applicable Bank rules andprocedures.

The assessment was carried out jointly with the implementing MDS staff, Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(STN, National Treasury Secretariat), and other staff members involved in the implementation o f the
program. It included the (a) discussion with financial management staff in MDS and STN officials;
(b) evaluation o f financial management systems inplace andor those to be usedfor program's monitoring,
accounting and reporting; (c) review of staffing requirements, including training and qualifications;
(d) discussion of flow o f funds arrangements and disbursement methodology; (e) review of internal control
mechanisms inplace; (f) discussion with regard to reporting requirements, including the format and content
of FMRs; and (g) review o f internal and external audit arrangements.

The financial management assessment o f the BFP builds on the overall Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) which was carried out for Brazil in 2002. The CFAA assessed the public financial
management system at the national level and concluded that ". ..Brazil's system provides reliable
information. Adequate systems exist to manage and track the receipt and use of funds and there is a high
level ofJisca1 transparency, both of which would support any program of adjustment lending. The risk to
both Bank and countryfunds is low." The Program-Based SWAP approach for the proposed project to
support the Federal Government's BFP will take advantage of these sound institutional and financial
managementsystems, namely the SIAFI(Sistema Integrado de Administrag20 Financeira) system.

                           I. FINANCIALMANAGEMENT              ARRANGEMENTS

All financial managementaspectsofthe BFP are beingmanagedby MDS staff incollaborationwith staff in
STN, usingBrazil's systems and existing organizational arrangements. The BFP will have a specific "cost
center" (Unidade Gestora), within the SIAFI system, where all sources - except for loan proceeds for
Component 1 -- and uses o f funds will be recorded and from where FMRs will be produced in a regular,
timely fashion. A satisfactory Financial Management System (FMS) for the project will build on existing
government arrangements and embedded internal control mechanisms and procedures, as well as
collaborationwith S T N and its staff.

Staffing. As discussed in Annex 6, MDS oversees the implementation of the BFP including financial
management aspects. In terms o f staffing and supervision for the project, financial management for the
Project will be managedby the PIUwith the support of a financial manager and assistedby two accountants
along with the staff o f the Operations Department of SENARC. The PIU Coordinator will liaise with STN,
overseethe preparation of the financial management sections of the OperationalManual for the project, and



                                                    69

train staff inthe operation o f the SIAFI system. The Director of Operations o f SENARC (who is also the
PIU Coordinator) i s responsible for cash flow management, including monitoring o f the BFP account with
the Caixa EconBmica Federal (CEF).

FinancialReportingand Supervision. The PIUCoordinator will ensure the timely productionof semi-
annual Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). These FMRswill make use o f existingfinancial reporting
information in the SUFI system and will consolidate information for all components of the project. The
content and format was agreedwith the Borrower andthe FMRs generally cover the following topics:

    0     FMR 1A - Sources4' and Uses of Funds(by disbursement category), cumulative and for the period,
          including a variance analysis;
    0     FMR 1B - Uses o f Funds by Program Activity/Component, cumulative and for the period; actual
          expenditures, including a variance analysis;
    0     FMR2 - PhysicalProgressReport(monitoring indicators);
    0     FMR3 -Procurement Report;

FMRs will disclose that loan proceeds will reimburse the Treasury for a percentage of conditional cash
transfers, which will have the Government as sole financier.

In addition, program activities and processes will be monitored via annual Quality Control Reviews
(covering Cadastro Unico processes, payments, conditionality compliance), as discussed in Annex 4
(Component 3.B).

Financial management supervision will be carried out every six months and will include: (a) reviewing
semi-annual FMRs; (b) reviewing o f annual audit reports and management letter and following up in a
timely manner on any issues; (c) participating in project supervision missions as appropriate; and
(d) updatingthe financial management rating inthe Project StatusReport (PSR).

Accounting Procedures and Policies. Annual Financial Statements o f the BFP will be prepared each
fiscal year in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the World Bank
(accounting on a cash basis will be utilized for the production of both semi-annual FMRs and annual
program financial statements). These statements will be audited, by independent auditors satisfactory to the
World Bank (see below), in accordance with acceptable auditing standards. A section covering Financial
Procedures will be included in the Operational Manual and will provide guidance with regard to financial
and administrative routines, procedures and policies.

Internal and External Audits. An annual external audit will be undertaken according to Terms of
Reference acceptable to the World Bank. The Auditors' report will follow the World Bank's new audit
policy, as per the guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board o f June 30, 2003 and will
express an opinion on the financial statements of the BFP. A management letter, identifying any internal
control weaknesses and areas o f improvement will also be produced. Second-semester FMRs' cumulative
financial reports, may be accepted by the World Bank as the basis for the annual financial statementsof the
program on which auditors' will express their independent opinion. The auditors' report will be submitted
to the World Bank no later than six months after the closing o f the fiscal year. In addition, a group of
permanent staff are being assigned to perform the function o f a "Coordenaqao Geral de FiscalizaqEo" of
the BFP which will essentially act as an internalcontrols department.




40Thesources anduses offunds will identifythe Govemment as the only sourceof fundingfor Component 1.



                                                                 70

                               11. DISBURSEMENTS FLOWOFFUNDS AND                            ARRANGEMENTS

Flow of Fundsfor the BolsaFamiliaProgram

As discussed above, the BFP is managed by MDS. Each month, the MDS sends a Program Financing
Proposal(PPF) to STN for approval. This PPF is establishedbasedonthe list ofeligiblebeneficiariesfrom
the Cadastro U n i ~ o .Once the PPF is approved by STN, an ordem bancaria is issued and funds are
                                ~ ~
transferred from a STN account with the Central Bank to a specific BFP account in the Caixa (CEF), see
Figure 1below. MDS monitorsthe balance of the BFP account inthe Caixa (CEF). Eligiblebeneficiaries
(on the payroll) then withdraw their monthly benefits from pooled BFP account using electronic benefit
cards (EBCS)!~ The EBCs are distributedto eligiblebeneficiariesaccording to the list establishedby the
MDS. Upon entering the program, beneficiaries must pick up these cards at the nearest CEF agency (or
lottery, post office or municipality). They are notifiedthrough the municipalitiesand must pick up their
cards and withdraw funds within a 90-dayperiodoftime. Experiencefrom the pre-reformprograms shows
that approximately 3-5% of Bolsa Escola beneficiaries did not withdraw their benefits within the 90-day
time period, mainly due to communicationsor transport difficulties inextremely remote rural areas.43 This
share was reportedly much higher under the BolsaAlimentaq2o Program (up to one third of beneficiaries
that did not withdraw their benefits, according to a TCU operationalaudit). Undisbursed amounts arising
fromthe expirationofbenefitsthat are not claimedwithin the 90-day periodwill be returnedfromthe Caixa
(CEF) to STN and credited to the MDS for use by the BFP. The OperationalManual will specify the
number of days that the CEF hasto returnfinds inthe eventthat they are notclaimedby the beneficiaries.

The MDS will enter into a new contract with the Caixa (CEF) where reporting requirements, as well as
penalties, will be clearly spelled out, and CEF will provide a payroll-type list of disbursements made to
beneficiaries underthe BFP.

Arrangements for Component 1(ConditionalCashTransfers)

Overall Financing Instrument. An additional feature of the proposed loan would be the use of a
program-based sector-wide investment approach (Program-Based SWAP). A Program-Based SWAP
makes sense in this instance because it would associate World Bank financing with one of the
Government's highest priority programs, which involves integratingthe main federal conditional cash
transfer programs as a comprehensive sector policy. By taking advantage of Brazil's sound institutional
and fiduciary framework, the Program-Based SWAP is expected to increase commitment, impact, and
flexibility. The Bankwill carefully monitorand supervisethe proposedProgram-BasedSWAPoperation,
like all other investmentoperations.

Interms of financingmechanisms, Component 1 of the proposedloanwould reimbursethe Government
for a smallshare (less than 10%) of productiveexpenditures on conditionalcash transfers madeunderthe
BFP, which are funded with government resources that are largely earmarked for that purpose. The
BrazilianGovernment requestedthat the World Bank loan, in support of Component 1,would reimburse
a share of these expenses. Given the current earmarking of revenues in Brazil, government revenues
would be appliedto make the payments for expenditures under Component 1, and the Bank would then
reimburse expenditures as specifiedin the legal agreement. The Bank funds disbursed would be part of
the regular federal budget financing, with the Bank as one of the sources of overall funds, which are


'IAs discussed in Annex 1, some of these beneficiaries include those currently receiving benefit amounts from the pre-reformprograms (Bolsa
Escola, Bolsa AlimentapBo, CaMo Alimentapb, and Auxilio Gas) but who are gradually being migratedto the (higher) unified benefit schedule
underthe BFP. They are beingvalidated as eligible for the BFP and are subject to the same set of conditionalitiesas the families already on the
BFP.
42Beneficiaries arenotrequiredto havetheir own bank accounts.
43Component4 ofthe proposedproject will support the developmentof a strategy for improving paymentsand operations inremoterural areas.,
as discussed inAnnex 4.



                                                                    71

spent consistentwith federal budget policies and procedures. The Governmenthas indicatedto the Bank
its intention to use the increasedfunds available for development priorities. Annual federal budgets are
approved by the Brazilian Federal Congress and are derived from the budget plan (LD) and the Multi-
Year Plan (PPA), which is a transparent four-year framework for federal expenditures, developedby the
Brazilian authorities with the participation of civil society, the Bank, and other development partners.
The Government engageswith the Bank ina discussionof the development expenditures.

Specifically, the World Bank loan for this component would disburse against SOTs containing a list of
transfers made to CEF, and verifying the disbursementpercentages, funding calculationsand conformity
with the loan conditions. SOTs are a disbursement mechanism through which the World Bank will
reimburse STN for advances made to CEF ("BF Grant Transfers") for disbursementsof the conditional
cash transfers ("BF                Grants")        to I
beneficiaries, as shown in Figure 1.
As discussed below (under Loan                           I           Figure 1- Component 1Flow of
Disbursementsand Flow of Funds, and                                                          Funds
ProgramRisk Assessment), the annual
financial audits will contribute, among
other ex-ante and ex-post control
mechanisms embedded in the program
design, to the verification of eligibility
of      expenditures            using         SOTs                                          , (PooledBFPaccount)
mechanism.           Specifically, in their
annual report, auditors will verify that
all funds ("BF             Grant Transfers")
received by the CEF were credited to                                                                    Annualaudits
the pooledbeneficiaryaccount andthat                                                                    verify that
                                                                                                        BFGrantsI
at least 85% of these amounts were                                                 IBRD
                                                                                reimbursesSTN           BFGrantTransfers

disbursed by CEF to beneficiaries in                                              a % of SOT            Z 85%

the form of BF Grants. In the event




Government Expendituresfor Component 1. As mentionedabove, for Component 1, the World Bank
would reimburse the Treasury for a specific share (see below) of expenses on conditional cash transfers
under the BFP during the project period. Governmentexpenditures for Component 1 inthis case would
be equal to total spending on conditional cash transfers by the BFP. Table 1 below presents the planned
BFP expendituresfor these transfersfor the project period(first row).

    Table 1-ExpectedGovernmentExpendituresand ExpectedPaceof LoanDisbursementsfor

                                                             2004             2005         2006        Total         Overall World Bank
                                                          (4 months)                                   period                Share
Expected Federal Government spending on     -
BFP Transfers, US$mn*                                         639            2,458         3,077       6,174                   n.a.
Component 1 (indicative disbursement                        156***       II   221       II  174    1I   551       II     8.9% o ftotal
schedule, see variable cost shares below)**           I
*These expenditures exclude allocations in the BFP budget for administrative costs. They include amounts being paid to beneficiaries that
currently receive benefit amounts from the pre-reform programs (Bolsa Escola, Bolsa AlimentaqSLo, Cartb Alimentaqllo, and Auxilio Gas) but
who are gradually being migratedto the (higher) unified benefitschedule under the BFP. They are all being validatedas eligible for the BFP and
are subjectto the same set of conditionalitiesas the families alreadyon the BFP.
**The US$551.5 million for Component 1 (grants) would be reimbursed to STN against a share of expenditures on conditional cash transfers
underthe BFP duringthe projectperiod.
***Includes retroactive financing (see below).



                                                                       72

Variable Cost Shares to Pace Disbursementswith Technical Improvements. While the total amount
of financing for Component 1(US$551.5 million) would represent 8.9% o f the total cash transfers budget
for the BFP, disbursements and cost-sharing percentageswould be linked to key milestones of technical
improvements. As discussed below, Component 1 of the loan would be disbursed on the basis of the
transfers made by S T N to the Caixa (CEF) -- upon MDS instructions and triggered by Ordens Bancarias
issued by MDS -- to provide grants (conditional cash transfers) to the beneficiaries of the Bolsa Familia
Program (SOTs concept). Specifically, loan proceeds for this component (SOTs for BF Grant Transfers)
would be made with increasing disbursement percentagesthat will increase as the actions listed inTable 2
in Annex 3 are met. The disbursements will start at the rate of 8%, will be increased to 9% when the
stage 2 milestones in Table 2 in Annex 3 have been met; and will be increased to 11% when the stage 3
milestones inTable 2 inAnnex 3 have beenmet. Ifstage 2 milestones are not met, disbursementswould
continue to be made at a 8% disbursement percentage; in the event that stage 3 milestones are not met
(but stage 2 milestones have beenmet), disbursementswill bemade at a 9% disbursementpercentage.

LoanDisbursementsand Flow of Funds. As discussedabove, for the BFP itself, funds flow from STN
to the CEF upon the issuance o f an Ordem Bancaria by MDS, with all transfers being registered in the
SIAFI system. Once these transfers are made, the CEF then pays out the conditional cash transfers to a
list of eligible beneficiaries established by MDS.

As discussed above, the World Bank will reimburse, on a monthly basis and upon request from STN,
against statements o f transfers (SOTs), recorded in SIAFI, made by the S T N to the CEF ("BF Grant
Transfers") upon issuance o f an Ordem Bancaria by MDS. Once this transfer is made, this advance for
the grant to be made is considered as expensed and the expenditure eligible for World Bank financing
(SOT concept). When requesting reimbursement from the World Bank, STN will not be required to
reconcile with actual expenditures (e.g., payments made to beneficiaries with STN transfers to Caixa; or
for expenditures by beneficiaries using their transfers), given the high number and small amount of the
transfers to beneficiaries.

As mentioned above, the auditors will certify intheir annual report that 100% ofthe funds received bythe
CEF (BF Grant Transfers) for the BFP were credited to the pooled beneficiary account and that at least
85% of funds transferred to the CEF via SOTSwere disbursed by the CEF to beneficiaries (as BF Grants).
Inaddition, unaudited semi-annual FMRswill reportonthe amounts transferred to CEF through SOTs vs.
actual payments to beneficiaries made by the CEF.

Existing controls over the beneficiaries N I S (Social Identification Number) and amount of the benefit
allow for the tracking o f individual benefits. This control is done through monthly withdrawal reports,
produced by Caixa, where amounts withdrawn are compared to the monthly list of beneficiaries and
respective benefits, which were the basis for the transfer to the BFP's account with the Caixa.

The technical verification of the compliance by beneficiaries ofthe grant conditions (health and education
conditionalities) would be made on an on-going basis by municipalities and by the Federal Government
via annual Quality Control Reviews for a random sample of beneficiaries (see Annex 4, Component 3.B.).
These annual Quality Control Reviews will also cover payments (ensuring that payments are actually
collected and received by intended beneficiaries) and Cadastro information, which will provide an
additional lever for fiduciary controls. SFC, as part of their routine work, i s already contributing to the
overall quality of the BFP by doing spot checks of the program's internal control procedures at the
municipal level. These spot checks also include meetings and verifications with small samples of BFP
beneficiaries.




                                                     73

The Government has opted not to use a Special Account for Component 1. Monthly SOTS,supporting
the withdrawal application (Form-1903), will be prepared by STN and submitted to the Bank for
reimbursement purposes. The MDS will consolidate and prepare semi-annual FMRs and annual financial
statements for the program(for all components of the project).

Arrangements for Components2-5 (Technical and ProjectManagementComponents)

Disbursements under Components 2-5 will be made on the basis of transactions and withdrawal
applications will be prepared and submitted by MDS (the PIU) on a regular basis (monthly) for
replenishment o fthe Special Account (which will be established exclusively for Components 2-5).

Disbursement claims (Form- 1903) will have as supporting documentation, a Special Account bank
reconciliation, a Special Account bank statement, Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and/or Summary
Sheets as applicable, and for all payments made against contract above SOEPrior Review thresholds
adequate supporting documents such as invoices and/or receipts. The Borrower has opted not to use
direct payments to suppliers, from the Loan Account, as stipulated inthe Decree Law 4.992 of February
18,2004.

Advances from the Special Account to UNagencies will be made against reasonable cash flow forecasts
for eligible expenditures in accordance to Borrower agreements with UNDP. Further advances will only
be made upon receipt o f adequate supporting documentation for the previous advance.

The Borrower may request disbursements to be made using the Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
methodology for all payments against contracts not subject to World Bank's prior review, including:
(a) contracts for goods costing less than US$350,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for consulting firms
services costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for individual consultants' services
costing less than US$50,000; (d) training activities; and (e) incremental operating costs.

Retroactivefinancingwill be available for disbursementcategories 1(Goods), 2 (Consultant Services), 3
(Training and Seminars), 4 (BF Grants) and 5 (Incremental Operating Costs) procured in a satisfactory
fashion and paid after January 1, 2004 up to a maximum o f 19% of the loan amount. This retroactive
financing percentage is consistent with the parameters included in the New Policy Framework for
Eligibility o f Expenses, and consistent with the established Brazil country financing parameters. It is
recommend that, once the loan is declared effective, such expenditures be immediately claimed from the
World Bank, on a reimbursement basis.

In order to ensure timely provision o f funds to finance the costs of the project, the Government will
establish, for the purpose of this project, a Special Account inU S dollars, exclusively for Components 2
to 5, in a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. An estimated amount
equivalent to 4 months o fthe Bank's share o f project expenditures for these components will be deposited
inthe Special Account. The authorized allocation for the Special Account is US$1.5 million.

                               111.FINANCIAL   MANAGEMENTRISKASSESSMENT

ProgramRiskAssessment. The Risk Assessment Matrix below, presents the items of potential risk for the
programfrom a FinancialManagement standpoint.




                                                      74

i.Countryspecific
ii.Sub-nationallevel                1x1       1x1 TI  A components quality control reviews accuracyof (Cadastro
                                                                                            -
                                                     Unico); TORSfor SFC
iii.Entityspecific                    X              New entity; World Bank assistance will be required
iv.Project specific                        X         Same as for Sub-national level
Control Risb
i.Implementing Agency                      x I       FMarrangementswill rely on SIAFI and embeddedcontrols
ii.FlowofFunds                      1x1I           IIPayments in remote areas: electronic benefits cards; random tests

iii.Staffing                            ] x I      I See implementation arrangements
iv. Accounting procedures                       X
v. InternaVExternalAudit                   X         Internal/External audits to be conducted by SFC; TORSfor SFC
vi.Reporting & Monitoring                  x         New entity but SIAFI will be utilized; World Bank support
vii. Information Systems                   X         Same as above



The overall Financial Management risk associatedwith the Project was rated as moderate. There are two
main areas of concern and potentialrisks. The first involves controls over payments, including:

          The risk that people other than the intended beneficiaries would claim the electronic benefit cards.
          This is a problem to some extent inany welfare program inany country inthe world. The proposed
          project will help the BFP develop systems to limit this risk, including random-sample Quality
          Control Reviews (see Annex 4, Component 3.B) and a variety o f social control mechanisms
          (including publicly disclosing lists of beneficiaries at the local level).
          The reconciliation between the amounts transferred to the Caixa ("BF Grant Transfers") and actual
          amounts disbursed to beneficiaries ("BF Grants"), including the issue of unclaimed benefits during
          the 90-day period as discussed above. This risk is mitigatedby: (a) the fact that MDSmonitorsthe
          BFP account inthe Caixa, which will transfer undisbursed amounts back to the STN for further use
          by the BFP; and (b) annual audits will ensure that (i) of funds receivedby the CEF (BF Grant
                                                                   100%
          Transfers) under the BFP were credited to the pooled beneficiary account; and (ii)          at least 85% of
          the funds transferred to CEF via SOTS were disbursed by the CEF to beneficiaries (i.e., BF
          GrantsBF Grant Transfers 2 85%). The Operational Manual will clearly state the number of days
          that CEF has to do these.

The second main area o f concern and potential risk involves the accuracy of, and the decentralized process
for collecting data for, the Cadastro Unico registry that is used for identifying and selecting beneficiaries.
As discussed in Annex 4, the technical components of the proposed project will greatly strengthen the
accuracy of the Cadastro processes, which will help mitigate this risk. The proposed project will also
support annual Quality Control Reviews of Cadastro information (reinterviewing a random sample of
beneficiaries to track payments, compliance with conditionalities, and the accuracy of Cadastro
information; see Component 3.B.in Annex 4).

Financial Management Assessment Conclusion.                   The overall Financial Management Assessment
conclusion is that the program's implementing agency (MDS), with the collaboration of STN, has
satisfactory financial management arrangements in place, and meets OP/BP 10.02 minimum requirements.
The financial management risk associated with the program has been assessed as moderate. The Bolsa
Familia Financial Management System will be able to produce timely, relevant and reliable financial
information, and to support the program's management inthe planning, implementation and monitoringthe
Program's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.



                                                        75

Loan ConditionsRelatedto FinancialManagement

      Adoption of Operational Manual including procedures for the flow of funds and information to
      and from beneficiaries and financial managementby effectiveness;
      MDSto retainaPIUincludingadequatefinancial managementstaffbyeffectiveness; and
      Draft Terms of Reference for external audits approved by the World Bank by effectiveness.




                                                76

                                        Annex 8: Procurement
                                     BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

                                 ProcurementInstitutionalArrangements

The project will consist o f five components: (a) one conditional cashtransfer Component (component l),
in which the Bank will reimburse US$551.5 million to the Brazilian Treasury for expenditures under the
BFP during the project period, that      will not involve procurement issues; and (b) three technical
components and one project management component, for which loan amount i s US$15.0 million to help
improve the basic architecture o f the program. Therefore, the proposed project will only require
procurement for the technical and project management components. The MDS will carry out hiring of
individual and consultants firms, workshops and training activities incooperation with UNDP.

                                       PROCUREMENT      METHODS

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995, revised
JanuaryIAugust 1996, September 1997, January 1999 ,November 2003 and May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selectionand Employment of Consultantsby WorldBank Borrowers" published in January 1997, revised
in September 1997, January 1999, May 2002 and May 2004; and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposals will be used
for the Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant services, respectively. For NCB procurement of goods,
MDS will use the model standard bidding document issued by SEAIN (Secretaria de Assuntos
Internacionas). The electronic preg8o may be usedas an alternative to shopping method for off-the-shelf
items in all project components. The project procurement method for each category is summarized in
Table A ofthis Annex.

World Bank-Financed Goods and Services

Under the technical and project management components, goods will be procured by the Ministry's
procurement unit, and consist o f computer equipment, peripherals, software, printing services,
communication equipment, and logistics for workshops and training. The following methods will be used
for this project:

InternationalCompetitiveBidding(ICB). Goods estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent per contract
or more will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. During
preparation, packages o f computer equipmenthohare for some states and municipalities, and of printing
services have been identified to be procuredthrough ICB.

National CompetitiveBidding (NCB). Goods estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent and
less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
NCB procedures. Printing and distribution of booklets to the beneficiaries o f Bolsa Familia Program, as
well as other items that may be grouped to reach NCB thresholds, are expected to be procured through
this method. Seconded services for operating the hotline, under Component 4, will be hired using NCB
documents satisfactory to the Bank, as described in item Incremental Operating Costs.

Shopping. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$600,000, may be purchased on the basis o f price quotations from at least three eligible
suppliers. Scattered printing services, small technical services, computer equipment and peripherals,




                                                    77

office equipment and logistics for training events and workshops have been identified to be procured
underthis method.

                         Table A: ProjectCostsby ProcurementArrangements
                                       (in US%thousand eauivalent)



  1. Goods                         3.3         0.4            0.1                         3.8
                                   (3.3)       (0.4)          (0.1)                       (3.8)
  2. Consultants' Services                                    10.2                        10.2
                                                              (10.2)                      (10.2)
  3. Training & Seminar                                       0.5                         0.5
                                                              (0.5)                       (0.5)
  4. Conditional CashTransfers3                               6,174.0                     6,174.0
                                                              (55 1.5)                    (551.5)
  5. IncrementalOperating Costs                0.2            0.5                         0.7
                                               (0.1)          (0.4)                       (0.5)
  Front-end-fee                                               5.7                         5.7
                                                              (5.7)                       (5.7)
  Total                            3.3         0.6            6,191.0                     6,194.9
                                   (3.3)       (0.5)          (568.4)                     (572.2)




WorldBank-Financed ConsultingServices

The proposed project would finance consultant services by firms and individuals. It is expected that the
project will finance several studies, design of information systems, data collection and analysis, focal
groups, activities to the Cadastro System, manuals to the BFP, etc. The following methods apply:

Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure will be used for consultant services, and training
contracts. At preparation about 90% of the consultant contracts with firms under the project were
identifiedto be procuredthrough this method, for an amount of approximately US$6.7 million.

Quality-Based Selection (QBS) will be usedfor assignmentswhich meet the criteria specified inClause
3.2 o f the Guidelines. Duringpreparation, only one contract was identified to be procuredthrough QBS:
the design and analysis of the impact evaluation to be financed under Component 3 (Developing a
Monitoringand Evaluation System).

Individual Consultants will be hired for assignments which meet the criteria specified in Section V of
the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount o f US$2.7 million equivalent. A core group for providing
technical and operational assistance for project management will be hired through this method, and
includes Planning and Monitoring specialist, specialists to each area of intervention, Procurement and
Financial Management specialists, and Informationand Technology specialist.




                                                    78

Incremental Operating Costs

Incremental operating costs refers to (i)  project management and supervision expenses tickets, per diem
                                                                                         -
and sundries; (ii)seconded services to operatethe hotline, including staff, equipment, and communication
costs (to be hiredthrough NCB procedures), and (iii)     operating and maintenance costs ofthe management
informationsystem(MIS/SIG). These services will be financed inaccordanceto bi-annualplans approved
by the Bank. Identification of suppliers of sundries and minor services will be made through market
inquiries inthe local market as in shopping. Once the suppliers are established (generally those offering
the lowest cost of lists of items), a purchase order will be issued usingregular administrative procedures.
The market inquirieswill be updated periodically. Internal travel will be procuredthrough administrative
methods of the MDS, generally consisting of the comparison of discounts and level of services offered by
travel agencies.


                  Table Al: ConsultantSelectionArrangements andPriorReview


  Consultant
  Services
  Expenditure    QCBS          QBS       SFB      LCS    CQ         Other      N.B.F.  Total Cost'
  Category
  A. Firms           6.7        0.8                                                            7.5
                               (0.8)     --                                                   (7.5)
  Priorreview    All(6.7)
                     contracts estimatedto cost the equivalentto US$200,000 or more
  B.                                                                  2.7                      2.7
  Individuals
                                                                     (2.7)                    (2.7)
  Prior review   All contracts estimatedto cost the equivalentto US$50,000 or more
  Total              6.7        0.8                                   2.7                      10.2
                    (6.7)      (0.8)                                 (2.7)                    (10.2)




                         PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION

Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) for hiring of international consultant services, and
purchaseof ICB goods must be publishedinthe UnitedNations Development Business, no later than June
2004. Thereafter, the Notice will be updated annually for outstanding consultant services and ICB goods.
Inaddition, detailed consultant services and assignmentswill be advertised, asthey becomeavailable, inat
least one national newspaper o f a large circulation. MDS may also seek "expressions of interest" by



                                                       79

contacting embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that are registered inDACON
(paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants). In this case, the
information required would be minimum, limited to make ajudgment on the firm's suitability. Sufficient
time (not less than 15 days) will beprovidedfor responses, before preparingthe short lists.

Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and
consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps inthe process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the Operations Coordination at
Operations Department. These records will be maintained for at least two years after the project's closing
date. The records for goods will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening
information, bidevaluationreports, formal appealsby bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related
addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information,
including a procurement plan ina format acceptableto the Bank.

Scheduling of Procurement.          A procurement plan for the tasks to be carried out during project
implementation was prepared and submitted to the Bank during negotiations. The procurement plan will
consist of: (i)procurement plan for the project's goods, including contract packaging, applicable
procedures and process scheduling; and (ii)    a consultant and training providers selection process plan for
the project's training and consultant services, including contract packaging, applicable procedures,
selection criteria. The procurement plans and consultant selection process plan will be updated
periodically, and shall be submitted to the Bank in January of each year. Such updating shall include (i)
list of contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured inthe upcoming calendar
semester and, tentatively, in the subsequent semester; (ii)costs of completed and under execution
contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; (iii)schedule o f biddings. The working instructions
will be inthe OperationalManual which will contain standard biddingdocuments, request for proposal,
formats for reporting on procurement, forms o f contract, timetables, model of TOR and any other relevant
informationrelatedto procurement.

Prior Review and Loan Agreement reference.              The Bank's procurement review will be made in
accordance with Appendix 1 o f the Guidelinesfor Procurement and Appendix 1 of the Guidelinesfor
Selection and Employment of Consultants. A review process similar to individual consultants will apply
to training and workshops.

The following biddingprocesseswill be subject to the Bank's prior review (refer to Table B below). The
adoption of the alternative o f specifying the said thresholds in the procurement schedule of the Loan
Agreement is recommended:

     0   all ICB tender processes, irrespective of the estimated amount of the contract;
     0   all consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent to US$200,000 or more. In this case the
         following documents will be reviewed: terms of reference, requests for proposal, short lists, terms
         and condition o f contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award;
     0   all individual consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent to US$50,000 or more, in
         which case the qualification, terms o f reference, evaluation justification, and draft of the contract
         will be forwarded to the Bank and will be awarded only after the Bank's concurrence. A review
         process similar to individual consultants will apply to training and workshops.




                                                      80

                   Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand PriorReview




Works              No works expectedunderthe project
                    >350k        100-350k     Shoppingor       All ICB       Regular supervision
Goods                                         preg%o< lOOk     only

Ex-Post Review. All bidding processes regardless o f their value are subject to ex-post procurement
review. All documentation included but not limited to: terms of reference, bidingdocument and request
for proposal, bids or proposal received, correspondence on all bids either prior or following of award of
contract and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two years following the
closing ofthe project.

Frequencyof procurementsupervision missions:The Bank will carry ex-post and supervision missions
on procurement twice a year.

Participation of UN Agencies. The Government requested the Bank's accord to carry out the
procurement and contracting o f some of the activities of Components 2, 3, 4 and 5 through UNDP. The
fees involved for these intermediationservices are not eligible for Bank-financing.

                                 PROCUREMENTRISKASSESSMENT

There is a CPAR for Brazil dated March 2004. Government procurement at the federal level i s considered
robust and average risk. The review indicates that the judicial protests or recurso continue to be a major
difficulty in government procurement. Another finding indicates that the use o fpregiib and other modern
procurement methods will add efficiency and transparency to government procurement.

The overall procurement risk assessment of the Project is ranked as high as presented in the Capacity
Assessment (in the project files), since the MDS was only recently created and has no significant
experience with the operations o f the World Bank (even though the Capacity Assessment indicates that
the overall organization of the MDS is acceptable). The procurement function should be strengthened by
givingMDSthe resources neededas indicatedinActivity No. 2 ofthe Action Planbelow.




                                                   81

             Confirm proposeduse o f a UNagency with MDS       To reinforce the
                                                               procurement implementing
                                                               capacity.

2            MDS to retain two procurement specialists with    To reinforce the                Byproject
             the following profiles: (a) fulltime procurement  procurement implementing Effectiveness
             manager with at least 5 years experience inBank-  capacity
             financed procurement; and (b) part time senior
             procurement specialist (ad hoc).
3            MDS to draft:                                     To provide the Borrower         By Effectiveness
                  0   an QCBS document; and                    with a view o fthe              as part o f the
                  0   anNCB goods document, using the           complexity o f Bank            Operational
                      documents developed by SEAIN             procurement; to ensure a        Manual
                                                                quick start up onkey
                                                                activities; to establish a
                                                                work flow within MDS
4            MDS to update the procurementplan prepared         Reinforce the procurement      Procurement Plan
             duringproject preparation                         planningcapacity                updated
5            MDS shows readiness to carry out Preglo            Ensure consistency and         ByEffectiveness
             Eletrdnico                                         promote modern,                as part o f the
                                                                transparent and efficient e-   Operational
                                                               procurement                     Manual
6            MDS to prepare filing instructions for procurement To improve filing o f          ByEffectiveness
             documentation, and to give guaranteesthat the      procurement                    as part o f the
             system will allow prompt monitoring o f            documentation and to           Operational
             procurement and contracts.                         facilitate supervision         Manual
7            MDS to maintain and develop sections on            To ensure compliance with      Manual by Loan
             procurement for the Operational Manual             the agreed procedures          Effectiveness

                                    Table D: Allocationof LoanProceeds

1. Goods                                        3,500,000             100
2. Consulting Services                          10,100,00             100
3. Training and Seminars                          500,000             100
4. BolsaFamiliaGrants                          55 1,478,000           8% untilthe first conditions have
                                                                      beenmet, 9% untilthe second
                                                                      conditions have beenmet, and
                                                                       11% thereafter
5. Incremental Operating Costs                    500,000              100%untiland aggregate o f
                                                                      US$200,000 is reached, and 70%
                                                                      thereafter
Unallocated                                      400,000
Front-end Fee                                   5,722,000
Total Project Costs                            572,200,000




                                                         82

                              Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                                       BRAZIL: BRBolsa Familia

                                           OBJECTIVESOFANNEX

As discussed inAnnex 1and elsewhere, the Bolsa Familia Program provides increasing income transfer
amountsto two differenttarget groups basedon householdper capita income and household composition:
    0    Priority i s given to those with monthly per capita incomes (PCI) less than R$50 (the "extreme
         poor"), which represent about 14.5% of the national population. These families receive a base
         transfer o f R$50, regardless of composition, plus a variable transfer of R$15 for each child
         between ages 0-15 years old. The maximum transfer i s R$95 per family.
    0    The next priority is givento those with monthly PCI between R$50-100 (the "moderately poor"),
         which represents another 18.5% of the national population. These families receive a variable
         transfer of R$15 for each child between ages 0-15 years old. The maximum transfer is R$45 per
         family. Inthis group, households with no children are not eligible.

In both cases, beneficiaries must comply with certain conditionalities related to minimum school
attendance o f children ages 7-15 and health care requirements (visits, vaccines) for pregnant women and
young children (see Annex 1 for details).

As with other conditional cashtransfers, there are manypotential benefits o fthe BFP, including:
    0    A reduction inimmediate poverty and inequality due to the redistributive cashtransfers;
    0    Gains in education due to both an income effect and a price effect associated with the
         conditionality o f minimum school attendance required of school-aged children in all beneficiary
         families (see Annex 1); and
    0    Gains in health status due to both an income effect and a price effect associated with health-
         relatedconditionalities for pregnant women and young children (see Annex 1).

Conceptual and data limitations prevent the monetary quantification of many of these benefits.
Conceptually, while it is possible to quantify the magnitude o f poverty and inequality impacts that could
result from these transfers, it is not possible (or desirable) to quantify these benefits inmonetary terms. In
addition, though conceptually feasible, data limitations also prevent the quantification o f the impact of the
program on health status.        Given these limitations, a full-fledged cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness
analysis is not possible.

Instead, this Annex will: (a) quantify the potential impact of the program on poverty, inequality, and
educational attainment; and (b) present evidence of the impact of similar programs - both from other
countries and from pre-reform programs in Brazil. The final section will also present an assessment of
the financial sustainability o fthe program.

       SIMULATING THE POTENTIALIMPACT OF THE BOLSAFAMiLIAPROGRAM

As discussed above, this section will attempt to quantify the potential impact of the Bolsa Familia
Program on educational attainment, poverty and inequality. These impacts will be estimated using ex
ante simulation methods, both for the specification parameters being used in the program today and for
alternative scenarios. As discussed in Bourguignon, Ferreira, and Leite (2003), "ex ante methods are
valuable tools because it i s easier to experiment on computers than on people. These methods are
essentially prospective, since they rely on a set o f assumptions about what households are likely to do
when faced with the program. They also permit direct counterfactual analysis o f alternative programs for


                                                       83

which no ex post data are available." The methodology used involves simulations that take into account
behavioral responses, following the methodologies used inBourguignon, Ferreira, Leite (2003) for earlier
ex ante evaluations of Bolsa Escola (but usingthe program parameters for BolsaFamilia).

Data Source and Main Data Limitations

The analysis is based on the National Household Survey (PNAD 2002).                                   Some information is also
supplemented from the PNAD 2001 (which includes an extensive supplement on education). According
to the PNAD 2002, 12.4 million households (54 million people)44would be potentially eligible for the
program, which is very close to the target included in the Government's PPA for 2007. This represents
about a third of the country's population. Around 48% of the transfers would go to households in the
BrazilianNortheast, 28% inthe Southeast, and the remaining24% spread between the other three regions
(North, South, and Center-West).

Some limitations arise due to data constraints. First, we are not able to simulate the impact of health
conditionalities or health/ nutrition benefits due to a lack of health and anthropometric data in the PNAD
2002.45 Another key assumption inthe analysis is that the programwould be perfectly targeted (with no
leakages to the non-poor). Also, the model ignores the issue of how the decision about a child's time
allocation is made within the household, bypassing the discussion of unitary versus collective decision-
making models of the household. Moreover, the decision to send a child to school is assumedto be made
after all adults within the household have made their occupational decisions, and it i s assumed not to
affect those decisions. The issue o f siblings in the same household and the simultaneity of the
corresponding decision are not addressed. Finally, the model is appliedto all school age children within a
household and the composition o fthe household is assumedto be exogenous.

PotentialImpacton EducationalAttainment

The rationale behind providing transfers conditional on school attendance is based on the premise that
poor children are less likely to enroll in and attend school because: (a) their families cannot afford the
direct costs of schooling (formal and informal fees, transport costs, uniforms, books, supplies, etc.);
and/or (b) the children need to work to help supplementfamily income. The idea i s to provide an income
transfer linkedto school attendance that could help compensate some o f these direct and indirect costs.
Data from the PNAD 2002 support this rationale.

First, enrollment rates are lower among the poor than the non-poor. While an overall 93% of Brazilian
children ages 5-15 years old report enrollment in                            only 89% of those inthe poorest quintile report
enrolling as compared with over 98% o f those inthe richest quintile.

Second, child labor is also more than twice as high among the poor as the non-poor. In 2002, some
12.4% of children aged 5-15 in the poorest quintile reported working, as compared with only 5% among
those inthe richest quintile. Most o f those children who report working were also studying, however, the
PNAD 2002 shows significantly lower hours per day spent at school for the poor: while the majority
(72%) of students inthe poorest quintile report attending school less than four hours per day, the majority
(60%) ofthose inthe richest quintile report attending more than four hours per day.

Interestingly, a significant share of those that were not studyingwere also not working (90% of those in
the poorest quintilethat were not studyingalso reportnot working). A possible explanationfor this is that


"Consideringthedesignoftheprogram,another1.5millionfamilies(or 11%ofhouseholdswithpercapitaincomes(PCI)betweenR$S0-100)
would not be eligible for the (variable) transfer sincethey haveno children.
  Datafrom the POF2002-03, which do includesome of these necessarydata, are not yet available for analysis.
46Inresponseto the questioninthe PNAD2002 "Are you studying?"



                                                                       84

they lacked the neededincome to pay for transportation, books, materials, uniforms, or other demand-side
constraints (such as a lack of interest or illness). Indeed, the PNAD 2001 suggests that such demand-side
constraints account for about 46% of the reasons reported for not attending school. Alternatively, a lack
of available schools or space in schools could explain some o f these cases. Indeed, the PNAD 2001
suggeststhat such supply-side constraints account for about 20% o fthe reasons reported for not attending
school.      Clearly, any demand-side program such as the conditional Bolsa Familia income transfer
program should be complemented by significant investments in the supply and quality of schooling in
Brazil.

Third, reflecting lower enrollment rates, inadequate daily attendance, fewer hours in school, and higher
repetition rates:'        total educational achievement for poor children i s far lower than their wealthier
counterparts. The PNAD 2002 indicates that the average number o f years completed for children inthe
poorest quintile is a full two years lower than the attainment of those inthe richest quintile(3.4 years for
the poorest vs. 5.4 years for the richest).

Using the methods explained at the end of this Annex, we simulated the potential impact of the BFP on
schooling decisions and educational attainment. The results are significant (see Table 1):

    0     While data do not permit analysis of the impact on daily attendance, enrollment would increase
          by 0.59%, which i s small mainly because about 89% o f poor children were already enrolled (this
          would increaseto 0.82% ifthe variable transfer were increasedto R$30 per child).

    0     The repetition rate would decrease by 6% and average years of delayed schooling (due to
          repetition) would fall by about 5%. These would increase to 9% and 7% respectively if the
          variable transfer were increasedto R$30 per child.

    0     The average o f total years o f schooling would increase by 3.4%. For those (11% of the poorest
          quintile) that previously were not enrolled in school, the Bolsa Familia transfer would result in
          one extra year o f schooling. Using Mincer standardregressions for adults ages 25-64 years old in
          the work force, an additional year of schooling could result in an 8% increase in wages earned.
          (The average of total years o f schooling would increase by 5% ifthe variable transfer were raised
          to R$30 per child).

                                         Table 1-PredictedEducationalImpacts
                       Model estimates and changesafter the Bolsa Familia Transfer                                           1
                                    Ln(Household                                             A after BF transferwith
                                    income) coef.             A after BF transfer               R$30 reais per child         I
 Enrolment rate                         0.25558                        0.59%                             0.82%
 Repetition rate                       -0.42345                       -6.23%                            -8.90%
 DelayedSchool                         -0.59678                       -4.79%                            -6.80%
 Education                              0.33757                        3.43%                             5.00%
Source: World Bank calculations, PesquisaNacional por Amostragemde Domicilios 2002

The impact of the Bolsa Familia program is presented in the transition matrices below (Table 2). With
the transfer and the imposition o f conditionalities, the share o f children not going to school falls by a full
percentagepoint, from 5.2% (overall -this figure is higher for the poor) to 4.5%.




''The  poor are more likely to repeat grades than the non-poor. Repetition rates are 37% for children ages 7-15 in the poorest quintile, as
comparedwith 6% for those inthe highest quintile. They are even higher for children ages 10-15 (54% for those inthe poorestquintile, but only
8% for those inthe richest).


                                                                   85

                            Not Goingto School Going to Schooland Working    Goingto School (only)               Total
 Not Going to School             83.7%                    2.7%                     13.6%                         5.4%
 Goingto Schooland Working                               98.2%                      1.8%                         12.5%
 Goingto School (only)                                                             100.0%                       82.1%
 Total                            4.5%                   12.4%                     83.1%                        100.0%




PotentialImpactonPovertyand Inequality

The potentialimpact ofthe BFP (with and without the enforcement o f conditionalities) -as well as several
alternative specifications - on poverty and inequality was simulated taking into account possible
behavioral responses, such as children's participation in schooling. Specifically, these impacts were
simulated for the various scenarios described inTable 3 below.


       I
        Families with                             Basetransfer
        Household per                                                                            Variable transfer

        capita income
        smaller than
        R%100
                                 O<=HPIC<=50                  50< HPIC<=100
        Bolsa        Familia:         R$50                           0           Can get R$15 for each child from 0-15 years
        Scenario 1                                                               old, upto R$45 total variable transfer.
        Bolsa        Familia:         R$50                           0           Can get R$15 for each child from 0-15 years
        Scenario2                                                                old, up to R$45 total variabletransfer. School
                                                                                  aged kids 7-15 must attend school and stay
                                                                                 out ofthe labormarketto receivethe transfer.
        Scenario3                     R$50                           0            Can get R$30 for each child from 0-15 years
                                                                                  old, up to R$90 total variable transfer. School
                                                                                  aged kids 7-15 must attend school and stay     I
                                                                                  out ofthe labor marketto receivethe transfer.
        Scenario4                     R$25                          25            Can get R$15 for each child from 0-15 years
                                                                                  old, upto R$45total variable transfer.
        Scenario5                     R$25                          25            Can get R$15 for each child from 0-15 years
                                                                                  old, up to R$45 total variable transfer. School
                                                                                  aged kids 7-15 must attend school and stay
                                                                                  out ofthe labormarket to receivethe transfer.



The results of these scenarios are presented inTable 4 below. For Scenario 1- the current Bolsa Familia
specifications but without conditionalities of school enrollment/attendance enforced - the estimated
impacts are quite impressive, particularly for the extreme poor. Under this scenario, extreme poverty
would be almost halved, falling from 14.5% to 8.1%. Full poverty would fall by less, from 33.3% to
29.9%, mainly due to the fact that the "moderately poor" (those with household incomes per capita
between R$50-100) would receive a much smaller transfer (only the small variable transfer, which i s not
large enough to raise them above the poverty line) and because 11% of the moderately poor would be
ineligible for this variable transfer since they do not have children. Nonetheless, the depth o f overall
poverty (Pl) would fall significantly, as both the moderate poor and the extreme poor would see their
incomes rise closer to the poverty line. Moreover, the overall severity of poverty would fall by almost a



                                                                     86

half (from 9.4% to 5.4%). Inequality would also fall significantly, with the Gini Coefficient dropping
from 0.595 to 0.578 (which is indeed significant given the resilience of Brazil's inequality over time). In
fact, as shown in Table 4, these existing specifications o f the BFP outperform alternative scenarios in
terms of their potential impact on poverty and inequality.

The impacts of the BFP on poverty and inequality would be slightly less impressive if conditionalities
were enforced (Scenario 2), since families whose children do not end up enrolling in school would be
penalized (not eligible for the transfers). However, the conditionalities would generate other positive
impacts, such as the reductions in child labor and the increases in educational attainment (as discussed
above). The slight muting o f potential impacts on poverty and inequality due to the enforcement of
conditionalities could be mitigated somewhat if the variable transfers were increased (Scenario 3), or if
the basetransfer was reduced, butalso available to the moderately poor (Scenarios 4 and 5).

                     Table 4                 -PotentialImpactof
I                                                                                                            the BolsaFamilia Program on Poverty and Inequality
                                                                                                         Povertyreductionafter thetransfer
I                                                                                     2002     - actual                 Scenario 1             Scenario 2  Scenario3  Scenario4 Scenario!


                                                                                                                           8.1%                   8.8%       7.5%      10.0%     10.0%
                                                                                                                           2.5%                   3.0%       2.4%       4.1%      4.1%
                                                                                                                           1.1%                   1.5%       1.1%       2.4%      2.4%

                                                                                                                         29.92%                 32.60%      31.40%     31.55%    31.58%
                                                                                                                          IO,e5%                1150%       10.22%     11.88%    11.91%
                                                                                                                          5.37%                  5.94%      5.04%      6.79%     6.81%

                                                                                                                          0.6040                 0.6180     0.5985     0.6398    0.6405
                                                                                                                          0.6880                 0.6940     0.6643     0.6982    0.6965
                                                                                                                          2.0842                 2.0966     2.0759     2.1016    2.1021
                                                                                                                          0.5787                 0.5819     0.5767     0.5838    0.5840

Meanper capita income R$                                                                    327.15                        331.10                 330.28     331.66     329.97    329.94
                                       ~

PopulationinMillions                                                                        167.72                        167.72                 167.72     167.72     167.72    167.72
Totaltransfer per year In mllllons of Reds                                                                               7,967.72               6,308.47   9,079.81   6,682.16   6,613.72
Average transfer per household RS                        -                                                                 63.13                  42.12      60.62      33.84     33.44
N&
I ScenibI mc~moulofm~tnn~hri.~~dndwndtlan~loflh~childnnbahavlour
                                                          . n d
2 S ~ n ~ B 2 , h ~ l m a v n t o f t h l I n n ~ b t l ~ w n d H ~ n r l ~ f t h ~ ~ l l d n n ~ r v i o u r
3Scm~bJ.mc~mountof~~tnn~krhurnd~Mnllofthcchiidran                          khlY(aUI Rt30rea~~psr~lYmd~il1ng~qual1oRt1IO(m~ts~dafR$%)wR~90(in~1e~dafRf45)
4 Scenrb4 meamountDIMCt n n s h r i.nmd and nd WndHionaIOfthe Children behaViOUrvlth dMLRn1ccillngand al least a I n n h iof R$25 Io, all POI hourholds
5Sccodo5 m ~ ~ m o u n t o f M ~ t n n ~ b r I ~ w n d H b n d o f 1 kb~hIYDU~*nhdiPRntulll~~llnd
                                                                            ~ i l d n n                        .t~a.1~V.n~~r~fR$25(ar.IIpM1houuhold.

Source: World Bank calculations, PesquisaNacional por Amostragem de Domicilios 2002



                                                                          EVIDENCE IMPACTFROMOTHERPROGRAMS  OF

Conditional cash transfer programs (CCTs) have becomewidespread in Latin America and the Caribbean
(LAC). An interesting feature o f the implementationof CCTs in LAC i s that most were accompanied by
rigorous impact evaluation studies in their pilot phases. In Brazil, a rigorous evaluation of the Bolsa
Alimentaqgo program suggests that a small monthly transfer of about R$30($12) per family has increased
food consumption by approximately 13%. The results also show significant improvements in diet quality
due to a disproportional increase in beneficiaries' consumption of fruits and vegetables. Results on child
malnutrition were mixed, however. While for one study subpopulation the results suggest a positive
impact on child growth, for another subpopulation the estimated impact was negative. As the authors of
the study conjectured, the subpopulationthat exhibited negative impact on child growth entered early on
inthe program, when rules were still not clear, and there was still a perceptionthat beingmalnourished
was a precondition to eligibility. This misperception might have generated a perverse incentive to slow
the growthof beneficiary


`*Olinto,         Pedro, Saul Morris, Alinne Veiga, and Rafael Flores (2004). "The Impact of the Bolsa Alimentaqb Program on FoodConsumption,
DietDiversityandChildGrowth." Mimeo.



                                                                                                                                87

An ex-ante evaluation of Bolsa Escola (Bourguignon, Ferreiraand Leite, 2003) indicates that 60% ofpoor
children ageing 10-15 not enrolled inschool would have entered school ifthey had accessto the program.
The results indicate, however, that the impact on poverty would be a minor one. The authors predict that
as conceived at the time, Bolsa Escola would reduce the incidence o f poverty by approximately 1
percentage point, and the Gini coefficient would fall byjust a half a point. This is because the per family
transfers under Bolsa Escola were quite small (and much smaller than those under the new BFP).

In Mexico, a thorough evaluation of the PROGRESA program has indicated that the program's
interventions reduced poverty by about 10%. It is also estimated that the depth o f poverty was reduced by
30 percent, and the severity o f poverty by 36%. In addition, PROGRESA appears to have had a positive
enrollment effect for boys and girls inprimary and secondary schools. At the primary school level, where
enrollment rates before PROGRESA were already between 90% and 94%, the results revealed that
PROGRESA succeeded at increasing the enrollment rate of boys up to 1.07% and of girls upto 1.45%. At
the secondary school level, the increase in enrollment effects for girls ranged from 7.2 to 9.3 percentage
points and for boys from 3.5 to 5.8 percentage points. The research findings also suggest an overall
increase in educational attainment of about 10%. PROGRESA students are entering school at earlier ages,
experiencing less grade repetition, and better grade progression. PROGRESA students have lower drop-
out rates and higher school re-entry rates among those who had dropped out. The program is especially
effective in reducing drop-out rates during the transition from primary to secondary school. The results
also show reduced labor-market participation o f PROGRESA children for both boys and girls. Labor-
force participation for boys shows reductions as large as 15 to 25% relative to the probability of
participatingprior to the program. For girls, there are also significant reductions in child labor associated
with PROGRESA.

PROGRESA's evaluation studies also indicate that improved nutrition and preventative care in the
program's areas have made younger children more resilient against illness. PROGRESA children aged 0-
5 exhibit a 12% lower incidence of illness than non-PROGRESA children. In addition, adult members in
beneficiary households were found to be significantly healthier. On average, PROGRESA adult
beneficiaries have 19% fewer days of difficulty with daily activities due to illness than non-PROGRESA
individuals, 17% fewer days incapacitated and 22% fewer days in bed. Visit rates to clinics in
PROGRESA communities grew faster than in control areas. In addition, there was a significant increase
in nutrition monitoring visits, immunization rates and prenatal care. PROGRESA has also had a
significant impact on increasing child growth and in reducing the probability o f stunting for children in
the critical age range o f 12 to 36 months. Estimates imply an increase o f about 16% in mean growth per
year.

             FINANCIAL      SUSTAINABILITY         OF THE BOLSAFAM~LIA PROGRAM

With respect to fiscal sustainability, the program is expected to increase in size and resource needs. As
shown inAnnex 1, the program is expected to reach 11.2 million families by the end o f the project period
(2006), up from 3.6 million families at the start of 2004. A significant share o f these beneficiaries will be
converted from existing pre-reform programs, so the marginal increase i s smaller than ifthe beneficiaries
were entirelynew. Nonetheless, the programwill require a significant but managed increase inresources,
from R$4.3 billion in 2003 (even less for the pre-reform programs in 2002) to R$9.4 billion by 2006. In
terms of shares of total federal primary expenditures and GDP, the program will remain relatively small,
rising from 1.1% of primary expenditures in 2003 to 2.5% by 2006 and from 0.2% of GDP in 2003 to
0.5% by 2006. This rise in spending needs will likely be offset by expected savings from the recently-
approved pension reforms, estimated at 0.4% o f GDP (or about R$8 billion) per year during that period.
The shift inresourcesfrom regressive pensions to progressive conditional cash transfers under the BFP is
an important part of the Government's strategy to reduce poverty and inequality in Brazil. Efficiency
gains will arise from merging the programs, and will also partially offset these higher costs (thus allowing


                                                     88

for greater coverage). The program is also seeking better complementarity and a pooling of resources
with state and local programsfor expanded coverageto further expandthe pool of available resources.




                                                89

                                   Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                                      BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

                  Indigenousand QuilombolaPeoplesDevelopmentPlan(Summary)

Introduction

The goal of the Bolsa Familia Program (BFP) is to reach 11.2 million poor families by 2006. The
program's key objective is to associate to the income transfers, conditionalities that allow access to
sustainable income earning opportunities for these families.      Given the scope o f the Bolsa Familia
Program, this requires that its implementation respects that ethnic and socio-cultural specificities of
differentgroups of beneficiaries (e.g., indigenous andquilombolas).

As part of preparing the proposed project to support the BFP, consultations were carried out with
representatives of the indigenous and Quilombola (afro-descendents) peoples and a diversity of
anthropologists specialized in indigenous and Quilombola issues.      Representatives of the Government
(including MDS) participated in the consultations with representatives o f indigenous and Quilombola
peoples. The purpose o f the consultations was to collect recommendations on:           (a) ensuring that
indigenous and Quilombola groups benefit from the BFP in a culturally-appropriate way; and (b)
monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of the BFP in these groups.           The results of these
consultations form the basis for this IPDP (summary), and the recommendations from beneficiaries and
specialists are included in this document. To facilitate dissemination and disclosure, the IPDP was
prepared in Portuguese, with an executive summary in English. Annexes include information on the
differentsets of consultations. The complete IPDP is available inproject files.


Finally, one consideration that permeated the aforementioned consultations as well as project preparation,
and is worth reiterating in this summary is the fact that the Bolsa Familia i s a flagship program of the
Federal Government o f Brazil. The BFP was already established by law (January 9, 2004), but the
regulations (regulamento) for guiding the implementation of this law are currently being drafted. This
context provides important parameters for both the opportunities and limitations in terms of the
recommendations presented.        Furthermore, it should be recognized that many of the potential issues
highlighted during the consultations equally affect other groups living in remote rural areas and, as such,
the recommendations made duringthe consultations should also benefitthese groups.

Background

It is estimated that there are about 220 different indigenous groups, speaking 180 languages, and totaling
370,000 people living under diverse conditions in Brazil.     As for Quilombola peoples, the statistics are
far less accurate, with estimates ranging from 1,264 communities (Fundaqiio Palmares) to 4,000
communities (ABA CRER) in 2003, located in rural areas of Amazonas, Maranhiio, Sergipe, Bahia,
Pernambuco, Mato Grosso, S2o Paulo, Goihs, and Minas Gerais. However, only a small sub-set of these
are officially recognized communities.

LegalFramework

Indiaenous Peoples.      Up to the 1980s, the Brazilian Government had promoted linguistic and cultural
integration of all the population into a presumed single national identity. To a large extent, the approach
since the colonial period has been the establishment of a homogeneous Brazilian identity, subsuming into
it all cultural specificities that came from different groups in one o f the most diverse societies in the



                                                     90

world.    This stance changed with the 1988 Federal Constitution, Article 231, which moved from
considering Indigenous Peoples as an "almost extinct category" to recognizing them as a differentiated
ethnic group with subgroups with their own particular social organization, language, culture, customs,
traditions, and beliefs. The 1988 Constitution establishes the rights o f indigenous peoples through:
(a) recognizing their different social organization, customs, languages, beliefs and traditions, as well as
the rightsto their land; (b) delegating to the Government the obligation to protect manifestations of local
culture, including that o f indigenous and Afro-Brazilians; and (c) determining that fundamental (basic)
education be available intheir native languages.

Inaddition to the Constitution, indigenous rightsare further established inBrazil's EducationLaw (Leide
Diretrizese Buses,LDB), by Decree 26/1991, inthe Resolutionofthe National EducationCouncil 03/99,
by the National Education Plan (law 10.172/01), and in Law 10.558/2002.              These laws ensure that
indigenous peoples should have access to quality fundamental education that is culturally appropriate and
bilingual, and that indigenous groups have the right to formulate their own pedagogical process. Finally,
these laws also establish indigenous groups' accessto higher education.

Similar to education legislation, there is extensive legislation granting indigenous peoples access to
culturally-appropriate health care. Law 9.836/1999 establishes a sub-system for health care under the
Sistemu Unico de Sazide (SUS).     A series of other Decreesand Portarias from 1999to 2004 deliberate on
the conditions of indigenous healthcare, andfurther differentiatethe rightsofthese groups.

Finally, Brazil also has legislation granting and protecting indigenous rights to their land, as well as
procedures for establishing indigenous territories.

Quilombolas. Although Quilombos have had a formal recognition of their cultural, economic, and historic
rights, these have not been easily translated into titling o f the land where they have lived and survived for
several centuries. Since the Afonso Arinos Act o f 1951, racial discrimination is considered a criminal act,
and according to Article 5 o f the Federal Constitutional of 1988, "racism is a crime for which bail i s not
available." Paragraphs 1 and 2 o f article 212 read that "the state shall protect all expressions of popular
Indigenous and African culture as well as all o f those that contributed to Brazilian civilization," whereas
Article 68 of the transitory constitutional provision states that "the definitive ownership of the
descendantsof the Quilombos to the land they are occupying will be recognized and the state shall make
efforts to issue them titles to their land." The Ministry o f Policies to Promote Racial Equality (SEPPIR)
and the Palmares Cultural Foundation, in the Ministry of Culture, in conjunction with other ministries
(and an inter-ministerial commission), have been involved in promoting policy solutions related to
Quilombos.

Cultural Appropriateness and Indigenousand QuilombolaParticipationinBolsaFamilia Program

BolsaFamilia is a federal programthat combines four cashtransfer programs-Bolsa Alimentaqgo, Cartgo
Alimentaqiio, Bolsa-Escola and Auxilio Gas-into          a single conditional cash transfer program.     The
objectives of the BFP include: (a) reducing poverty and inequality today, through the provision of direct
monetary transfers to poor families; and (b) reducing poverty and inequality tomorrow, by providing
incentives and conditions for investments in human capital on behalf of beneficiary families, and by
linking beneficiary families to complementary services that could help them invest and grow out of
poverty inthe future.

The BFP defines two target groups. The priority target group is those "extreme poor" families with per
capita monthly incomes below R$50 (US$17).              The program also targets those "moderately poor"




                                                       91

 families with per capita monthly incomes below R$100 (US$34)49but higher than R$50(US$17). These
 groups are likelyto include a significant proportion of the indigenous and Quilombola peoples. The BFP
 uses the "Cadastro Unico," a national database of potentially poor households, to identify beneficiaries.
 Current eligibility criteria are based on per capita income of family, though these will be revised to
 incorporate a set of proxy indicators (cesta de indicadores multidimensionais) since experience shows
 that the use of self-declared incomes is not very accurate.

 The program will provide cash transfers ranging from R$15-95 (US$5-33) to target families5' The exact
transfer amount will depend on income levels and household composition.                                           Monthly transfers are
 expected to average about R$71 (US$24) per beneficiary family. Payments are preferably made to the
mothers, as per the Bolsa Familia law.                      The transfers would be conditional on all relevant family
members complying with key human development conditionalities, such as school attendance, children's
vaccinations and health care consultations, and pre-natal and peri-natal care. Important synergies are
expected from the simultaneous promotion of investments in health and education within a family.                                             In
some areas (such as remote and/or indigenous and Quilombola areas), the supply of adequate or the
availability of culturally-appropriate health and education services may be lacking.                                           The BFP is
developing a policy to define co-responsibility requirements inthese exceptionalcases.

While BFP is designed to be inclusive o f all families identified under its pre-determined criteria, if not
carefully considered, certain cultural differences among the indigenous and Quilombola may hinder their
access to this program.               Consultations with indigenous and Quilombola representatives and with
anthropologists highlighted some areas for consideration in both program design and implementation.
The consultations all emphasized that the Bolsa Familia Program should not be considered a
comprehensive solution to the problems faced by these peoples. Key structural reforms and programs are
needed. In addition, with respect to the program itself, the following are the key concerns and
recommendations presentedduringthe consultations.

Conceut of Family. A key aspect o f the BFP i s the identificationo f the family as a unit of eligibility as
well as to determine the amount o fthe benefit. However, the concept o f nuclear family is not necessarily
culturally appropriate for indigenous and Quilombola peoples and its application should be cautiously
thought out during the revision o f the Cadastro Unico. While "misclassification"                                          of a family is a
potential problem, a greater concern is that, due to the ceiling in the benefit per family granted by the
program, some families may feel encouraged to disintegrate into smaller units so as to receive more
benefits. On the basis o f the consultation discussions, specific recommendations include:

      0    Beneficiary families should be defined as production and consumption units, not by physical
           residency. The nuclear family i s the best reference for this definition but there should be
           flexibility; and

           The definition o f a beneficiary family should be done basedon consultations with the concerned
           community, community associations and/or organizations, or through specialized consultants.

Eligibility criteria.         As previously stated, the current eligibility criterion for the BFP is poverty as
measured by the per capita income o f the family. The Government already recognizes that self-declared
income is not an appropriate measure and i s inthe process o f developing a set o f proxy-means indicators



49Brazil does not have an official poverty line and researchinstitutions use different poverty lines that lead to different poverty numbers. The
poverty line used in the World Bank's study is set at around R$80 per month (USS27) and is adjusted for each region using a regional price
index. This resultsin anationalpoverty rate of 28.7%. IPEA'sextreme povertylinewas establishedat R$62, yielding an extremepoverty rateof
14.6%. IPEA calculates the full poverty line as twice the extreme poverty line, or R$124, resulting in a poverty rate of 33.6%. This value is
close to that beingusedby the Government intheir documents.
50The US dollar amount used hereinand thereafter isjust as areference and it is basedonthe exchangerate of US$l =B2.90.



                                                                      92

(cesta de indicudores multi-dimensionais) to determine eligibility.           In order to ensure cultural
appropriateness o f the indicators selected, it was suggestedthat the definition take into consideration the
general situation o f indigenous and Quilombola communities. For this, consultations with representatives
of these groups may be appropriate and the criteria established should be transparent to all. Another issue
that was raised during consultations is the prioritization of beneficiaries on the part of the Government
due to limitedresources duringthe next couple of years. Given the internal closeness of most of these
communities, denying benefits to one potentially eligible family while granting benefits to another may
lead to problems and even disintegrationwithin the community. Furthermore, although others supported
a criteria-based selection for all BFP beneficiaries, indigenous and Quilombola representatives defended
that all indigenous and Quilombola families should benefit from the program. Giventhe aforementioned
concerns, the following specific recommendations were made:

    0    Eligibility criteria should be broader than the family unit, and culturally appropriate to the
         conceptso f indigenous and Quilombola populations;

    0    When selecting the new set of proxy-means indicators to determine eligibility criteria, the
         Government should consider including indicators that are more appropriate to the socio-cultural
         reality of indigenous and Quilombola populations;

    0    Priority criteria should be defined to determine which municipalities / communities will receive
         benefitfirst;

    0    All eligible beneficiaries within an identified indigenous and Quilombola community should
         receive the benefit to avoid creating divisions within a community [indigenous and Quilombola
         leaders defended that absolutely all families within a community should receive the benefit,
         regardlesso f eligibility]; and

    0    The community should be consulted, if exceptions are to be made, and all decisions should be
         transparent.

Cadastro Unico. Under the BFP, all potential beneficiaries are registered under a national household
registry (the Cudustro Unico) which serve as the basis to determine family eligibility. The enrollment of
indigenous and Quilombola families into the Cadastro Unico raises several challenges. Currently, the
Government is still in the process o f fine-tuningthe Cadastro to improve the system of identifyingtarget
populations. Municipalities generally collect and enter the data, and the Caixa EconGmica Federal (CEF)
consolidates the Cadastro database, while the SENARC inthe MDS oversees the whole process. A pilot
of the Cadastro for indigenous populations was carried out in Parani, with the National Health
Foundation (FUNASA) in charge o f registering the indigenous groups. The results of that pilot are
currently under evaluation.

Nonetheless, several issues regarding the Cadastro Unico that could particularly affect indigenous and
Quilombola peoples were raised during the consultations. First and foremost, there i s a concern that
municipal governments may taint the registration process, as indigenous and Quilombola groups are not
traditional members o f the local political electorate. Second, the Cudastro itself may not be a culturally
appropriate instrument, as many o f the questions in the questionnaire are based on concepts that are
biased against these cultures.       Additionally, many of the terms used in the Cadustro may not be
appropriate for these cultures. In addition to the specific recommendations made to the instrument itself,
detailed inthe full IPDP report presentedto the Government, the following suggestions were made:

     0    Register (cudustrar) all indigenous and Quilombola families inthe Cadastro and only then, using
         the agreed eligibility criteria, select beneficiaries;


                                                         93

          Either develop a new registry instrument designed specifically for indigenous and Quilombola
          groups or revise the current instrument to be more culturally appropriate for these groups.
          Involve representatives from these groups inthe process;

          Use community health agents (Agentes Comunitarios de Safide) to register indigenous group^;^'

          Use Quilombola people to carry out the registration of the Quilombola peoples;

          Provide specific training to agents responsible for registering indigenous and Quilombola families
          so that they not impose their own cultural references inthe process;

          Disseminate information about the program, including eligibility criteria, benefits, and
          conditionalitiesto all groups including indigenous and Quilombola populations; and

          Processthe Cadastro Unico inthe Indigenous Sanitary Districts (Distritos Sanitcirios Indigenas,
          DSEI),rather than at the municipal level.

Benefits. As discussed above, under the BFP, families receive a monthly stipend that varies between
R$15 and R$95, dependingon the family's per capita income and the number o f children between 0 and
15 and pregnant family members. Payments under the BFP are made on a monthly basis. Beneficiaries
withdraw benefits from a pooled account usingelectronic benefit cards (EBC) distributedby the CEF (the
law stipulates that EBCs are preferably distributed to women in the household).                                    In the case of
indigenous and Quilombola beneficiaries, the following recommendations were made and incorporated
into the project:

          The definition of the person responsible for receiving the resources should respect the family
          organization and traditions. This meansthat inmany instances, it may not be the female head of
          household;

          Access to benefits by beneficiary families should be guaranteed, such as transportation to the city
          to withdraw the resources;52

          Provide training to staff from CaixaEconGmicaFederal so as to improve service to Quilombola
          peoples and reduce discrimination o f these groups; and

          Beneficiary families shouldhave autonomy inmanaging their resourcesand there should be some
          flexibility as to the timeframe to withdraw resources as monthly withdrawals may be difficult in
          remote areas (the program currently requires withdrawals to be made within a 90-day period).

Conditionalities. The specific conditionalities for beneficiary families include: (i)children untilthe age
o f one must have seven doctor visits per year; (ii)children between 0-7 years o f age must have all of their
vaccines up to date; (iii)children between 7 - 15 must fulfill a school attendance requirement; (iv)
pregnant women must have six pre-natal visits, one peri-natal visit, and vaccines up to date. Compliance
with these conditionalities is to be verified through school enrollment and vaccination records. During
the consultation process, it was agreed that the conditionalities should be maintained for all beneficiaries
of the BFP, but that there should be flexibility in interpreting and enforcing the requirements for


"InthepilotcarriedoutinParankthoseagentswereusedtocollectinformation. Theuseofcommunityhealthagentsisalsocommonpractice
for the CadastroUnico.
"Thisisaproblemaffectingallremoteruralcommunitiesand, assuch, alternativesarebeingconsideredbytheGovernment. As such, the
proposedprojectwould support the developmentof a strategyfor operatingthe program in remoterural areas (including remote indigenous and
Quilombolacommunities; see Component4).



                                                                94

indigenous and Quilombola populations. This is particularly true because of supply constraints and
cultural differences. The following recommendations were made:

     0   Beneficiaries should not be penalized for non-compliance when schools are not available or are
          culturally-inappr~priate;~~

     0   Interpretationof pre-natal care conditionality should be culturally-appropriatewithout stipulating
         the number of visits and allowing for the choice usingtraditional mid-wives and ensuring that the
         visits include appropriate vaccines and lab tests; and

     0   Verification of conditionalities should be conducted by the communities themselves (or trained
          agents) so as to ensure culturally-appropriateinterpretation intheir application.

ProgramStrategiesfor the Emancipapjo ofBeneficiaryHouseholds

The BFP contemplates evaluating and identifying innovations in "emancipa@o" and "bridging"
approaches and service delivery. In this context, the following recommendations were made during
consultations and incorporated into the project:

     0   EmancipaqLio approaches to avoid creating dependency should be designed so as to respect the
          culture and organization o f indigenous and Quilombola peoples, their autonomy o f decision, and
         their environment;

     0    Complimentary programs and services should be planned parallel to the implementation of the
          BFP ina culturally-sensitive way; and

     0    Ensurethat programeligibility and re-certificationcriteria aretransparent andthat indigenous and
          Quilombola communities understand them.

Conclusions

As ethnic minorities, indigenous and Quilombola peoples find themselves at a disadvantaged position at
terms of opportunities and quality o f life prospects. While the BFP is designed to benefit all Brazilians
that fit the eligibility criteria ("the poor"), such social and cultural differences may create entry barriers
for these groups and put them at a disadvantage to benefit from the program.                                    Consultations with
anthropologists and beneficiaries pointed to six general areas o f concern: (i)the concept of family; (ii)
eligibility criteria; (iii)Cadastro Unico; (iv) benefits; (v) conditionalities; and (vi) program exit. While
there was consensus that the overall program design is applicable to indigenous and Quilombola groups,
specific recommendations were made to improve their access to the program.                                         In addition, the
consultations all emphasized that the Bolsa Familia Program should not be considered a comprehensive
solutionto the problems faced by these peoples. Key structural reforms and programs are needed.

ProposedProjectActions to Address Recommendations

The full IPDP was presented and discussed with the Government (which also participated in
consultations), which agreed to consider the recommendations while fine-tuning the Bolsa Familia
Program.       Additionaily, in the context of the technical assistance components o f the proposed loan
(US$15 million), the following recommendations have been incorporated into the project:



53Indigenous peoples are entitled by law to have access to indigenousschools. However, in the case of Quilombola there is no such guarantee
andregularschools are often culturally inappropriate.



                                                                    95

        Ensurethat the updatingofthe CudastroUnico will consider cultural differences, including inthe
        selection of indicators that will be usedto determine beneficiary eligibility.

        Train agents responsible for registering indigenous and Quilombola families so as to ensure
        cultural sensitivity and knowledge inthe process.

        Ensure proper dissemination of BFP information, including eligibility criteria, operations, and
        conditionality, specifically tailored to indigenous and Quilombola publics;

        Continuously     monitor and evaluate the BFP to ensure that indigenous and Quilombola
        communities have access and benefit from the program ina culturally appropriate manner and the
        that the program does not have unexpected negative effects onthe community;

        Provide technical assistance to the Govemment so that it develops a strategy to ensure that
        payments are accessible to groups living in reach remote areas, including indigenous and
        Quilombola communities; and

        Establish a monitoring mechanism that includes representation from indigenous and Quilombola
        peoples.

Specific Monitoringand EvaluationIndicators

The proposed project includes a component (Component 3) that seeks to support the whole BolsaFamilia
Program (including the Bank's contribution to it) in designing and implementing a results-based
monitoring and evaluations system aimed at: (i)monitoring the effectiveness of program delivery, (ii)
monitoring processes and instituting quality controls aimed at promoting public accountability and
legitimacy, and (iii) monitoring outcomes and assessing the program impacts at both the territorial and
household levels.

The Monitoring and Evaluation Component includes four sub-components, each with specific activities
related to ensuring the appropriate participation of indigenous and Quilombola families in the program,
monitoring their participation, and evaluating impact. Whenever possible, data collection and evaluation
will be disaggregated by ethnic categories and qualitative research will specifically monitor
implementation process by sub-groups, including indigenous and Quilombola. The following are specific
monitoring and evaluation activities planned under the project, which will contemplate indigenous and
Quilombola communities:

        Preparation o f regular newsletters and reports with detailed information on program delivery sent
        to representatives o f indigenous and Quilombola groups.

        Design and execution of random quality control reviews to check whether beneficiary
        identification for indigenous and Quilombola families follow adequate program guidelines, and
        whether conditionality compliance as reported is credible.

        Promotion o f citizen oversight and social control through the dissemination of detailed program
         informationto indigenous and Quilombola stakeholders.

        Design and implementation o f in-depth case studies to describe and analyze specific social
        control manifestations.




                                                      96

      0   Analysis o f territorial level outcomes, including specificities of indigenous and Quilombola areas
          (quantitative data will be complemented by the use of focus groups, including in these
          communities).

      0   Analysis of family level outcomes usinga combination of quantitative and qualitative methods.
          This analysis will enhance the understanding of the impact of BFP on key culturally-appropriate
          social indicators and the interactions that the programhas with other aspects of living conditions,
          specific to indigenous and Quilombola families.

Cost Estimatesand FinancingPlan

The Bolsa FamiliaProgram i s estimated to cost the Government of Brazil approximately US$6.5 billion
over the proposed project period (mid-2004 to end-2006). The proposed project will finance US572.2
million (9.3% of the total program budget). O f this, US$551.5 million (Component 1) will be used to
reimburse the Treasury for the direct financing of the BFP (hence the expenditure category is conditional
cash transfers or grants). Another US$15 million (Components 2-5) will be used to provide technical
assistance (and support to project management) to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f the
program. The Bank's participation with a loan size that is only a small share o f the program cost,
nevertheless, will allow for a scale of impact on the content and performance o f the entire program. It is
in this context that the proposed project will carry out a series of activities that will contemplate
indigenous and Quilombola groups, to ensure that they benefit from the BFP in a culturally-appropriate
way and to monitor the program's impact on those groups so as to prevent any negative effect.

While costing out the proposed project, the preparation team identified all the specific activities (i.e.
consultancies, workshops, services, etc.) which should consider and/or benefit indigenous and
Quilombola communities, among other beneficiaries.          From the US$15 million in technical assistance,
approximately US$8.7 million i s allocated to those activities.        The itemized list is included in project
files and summarized below.



                                                                  Total, US$MillionIncluding Contingencies
StrengtheningSystemfor IdentifyingTarget Population                                 0.8
DevelopingaMonitoring and EvaluationSystem                                          5.0
InstitutionalStrengtheningfor ServiceDelivery                                       2.9
Total ProiectCosts-TechnicalComuonents                                              8.7




                                                       97

                           Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                                   BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia




Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project:
Secretaria Nacional de Renda e Cidadania do MinistCrio de Desenvolvimento e Combate 6 Fome, in
collaboration with the World Bank, and with assistancefrom DFIDand IFPRI.

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on tl projectpreparation:
Name                                             Specialty
Kathy Lindert                                    Team Leader I Senior Economist
Maria Madalenados Santos                         Sector Leader
UlrichZachau                                     Operations Director
Marta ElenaMolares-Halberg                       LeadCounsel
Joachim von Amsberg                              LeadEconomist
Mary Sheehan                                     LeadOperationsOfficer
Efiaim Jimenez                                   LeadProcurementSpecialist
Luiz Gazoni                                      Senior ProcurementSpecialist
Zeze Weiss                                       Civil Society Specialist
<JosCJaneiro                                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Regis Cunningham                                 DisbursementOfficer
Suzana Abbott                                    LeadOperationsOfficer
HidekiMori                                       ProgramCoordinator
FrancescaBastagli                                Monitoring and evaluation
Andrea Guedes                                    OperationsOfficer
Ademildes Dantas                                 OperationsOfficer
DanielaMarques                                   OperationsAnalyst
Anemarie Proite                                  ProcurementAnalyst
FabianaImperatriz                                ProgramAssistant
Marize de Fiitima dos S ntos                     Team Assistant
LerickKebeck                                     ProgramAssistant
Consultants:
Pedro Olinto (IFPRI)                             Monitoringand evaluation
BCntdictede laBriBre (DFID)                      Targeting/Monitorin@valuation/Institutional
Tarsicio Castaileda                              Targeting
Laudo Bernardes                                  Institutional strengthening
Andre Ramalho                                    ProcurementSpecialist
Phillippe Leite                                  Economicanalyses, impact simulations

Bank funds expected to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:US$422,000.00
     2. Trust Funds:US$O.OO
     3.  Total: US$422,000.00



                                                   98

EstimatedApproval and SupervisionCosts:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$348,000.00
    2. Estimatedannualsupervisioncost: US$100,000.00




                                               99

                           Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                                BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia


FullIndigenousPeople's Development Plan(IPDP) inPortuguesewith anEnglishSummary.

Detailed project costing tables.

ProcurementCapacity Assessment (approved).

de laBriere,BCnCdicte andKathy Lindert(2003). "Reforming Brazil's Cadastro Unicoto
Improve the Targeting of the Bolsa Familia Program." draft ESW, The World Bank.


Viana, Ana Luiza d'Avila (March 2004). "Programa Bolsa Familia."




                                             100

                                      Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                                               BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

                                                                                                            Difference behveen
                                                                                                            expectedand actual
                                                      Original Amount inUS$ Millions                          disbursements
                                                         ~        ~                     ~~


ProjectID  FY  Purpose                              IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF      Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PO60573   2004 BR Tocantins SustainableRegionalDev   60.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   60.00    0.00        0.00
PO49265   2003 BR-RECIFE URBANUPGRADING              46.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   45.54    1.54        0.00
               PROJECT
PO54119   2003 BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                  30.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   29.70   -0.30        0.00
PO70827   2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.                  60.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   60.00    0.00        0.00
               EDUCATIONPROJECT
PO58503   2003 GEF BR Amazon Region Prot Areas       0.00       0.00     0.00      30.00     0.00   27.50    0.00        0.00
               ("4)
PO78310   2003 BR-CAIXA Water                        75.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   75.00    3.33        0.00
PO76977   2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project           12.12      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   12.12    1.05        0.00
PO80400   2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control I11            100.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  100.00    0.00        0.00
PO74777   2003 BR-Municipal PensionReformTAL          5.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    4.70    1.47        0.00
PO57665   2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION            68.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   59.22   30.41        0.00
               PROJECT
PO57653   2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                  160.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  197.34  -22.78        0.00
PO43869   2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL             62.80      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   60.53    9.36        0.00
               RESOURC& POV.
PO55954   2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY                   65.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   44.68   34.74        0.00
               MANAGEMENT
PO51696   2002 SA0 PAUL0METRO LINE 4 PROJECT        209.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  206.38  116.81        0.00
PO74085   2002 BR SergipeRural Poverty Reduction     20.80      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   15.01    4.38        0.00
PO73192   2002 BR TA FinancialSector                 14.50      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    9.30   -1.31        0.00
PO70552   2002 GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY            0.00       0.00     0.00       8.00     0.00    8.66    2.81        0.00
               PROJECT
PO66170   2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural Poverty Reduction     22.50      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   18.67    3.79        0.00
PO60221   2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN                85.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  111.47   35.68        0.00
               TRANSPORT PROJECT
PO50875   2001 BRCeara Rural Poverty Reduction       37.50      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   21.82    7.57        0.00
               Project
PO50880   2001 BR PemambucoRural Poverty Reduction   30.10      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   23.12   12.17         0.00
PO59566   2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION             90.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   79.01  -10.99         0.00
PO50881   2001 BR PIAUI RURAL POVERTY                22.50      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   14.66    8.57         0.00
               REDUCTION PROJECT
PO73294   2001 BR Fiscal& Fin. Mgmt. TAL             8.88       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    7.23    5.74         0.00
PO57649   2001 BR BahiaRuralPoverty Reduction        54.35      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   29.23    9.06         0.00
               Project
PO50772   2001 BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                 202.10      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  208.53  172.30         0.00
               ALLEVIATION I(SIM)
PO35741   2000 BRNATLENV 2                           15.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     2.32    6.48    8.30         7.37
PO62619   2000 BR INSS REF LIL                       5.05       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    0.36   -0.14         0.67
PO39199   2000 BR PROSANEAR 2                       30.30       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   29.21   28.21         0.00
PO39200   2000 ENERGYEFFICIENCY                     43.40       0.00     0.00       0.00    41.40    1.57   4 1.40        1.03
               (ELETROBRAS)
PO06449   2000 BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH           136.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   83.70   42.55         0.00
               SIM




                                                           101

PO50776    2000  BRNEMicrofinanceDevelopment          50.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      33.11  -16.89         0.00
PO47309    2000  BR ENERGYEFFICIENCY (GEF)             0.00     0.00    0.00     15.00     0.00      15.40   13.15         6.14
PO58129    1999  BR EMER.FIRE PREVENTION(ERL)          15.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       6.19    6.19         2.49
PO50763    1999  BR- Fundescola2                     202.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      17.58   11.75         0.00
PO48869    1999  BR SALVADOR URBAN TRANS             150.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      94.23   93.40         0.00
PO43874    1999  BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE    -       100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     25.00      21.71   46.71         0.00
                 VIGISUS
PO38895    1998  BR FED.WTRMGT                       198.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     40.00      59.15   99.15        99.15
PO38947    1998  BR- SC. &TECH 3                     155.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     88.80       6.73   95.53         0.00
PO06559    1998  (BF-R)SP.TSP                          45.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       3.88     3.88        0.00
PO06474    1998  BR LANDMGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)              55.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      49.42   45.42          3.66
PO35728    1998  BR BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                51.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      12.15    12.15        -3.42
PO43421    1998  BR RJM.TRANSITPRJ.                  186.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      17.17    118.25   135.42         0.00
P043420    1998  BR WATER S.MOD.2                    150.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    125.00     20.86   145.83         0.55
PO57910    1998  BR PENSIONREFORMLIL                    5.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       2.04     2.04        -0.14
PO51701    1998  BRh4ARANHAO R.POVERTY                 80.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00       0.64     0.64         0.00
PO42565    1998  BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                  60.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      17.42    17.42         0.00
PO43873    1997  BRAGTECH DEV.                         60.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      18.52    18.52        18.52
PO06532    1997  FED HWY DECENTR                     300.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     30.00     93.63   123.63       71.29
PO43868    1997  BR RGS LAND MGTPOVERTY              100.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      30.18    30.18       30.18
PO06562    1997  BAHIA MUN.DV                        100,oo     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      16.99    16.99        16.99
PO34578    1997  BR RGS HighwayMGT                     70.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      46.77    46.77       46.77
PO37828    1996  BR (PR)R.POVERTY                    175.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      57.52    51.52        57.52
PO06210    1996  GEF BR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY              0.00    0.00    0.00     10.00     0.00       2.44     3.24         0.20
PO06554    1996  BR- HEALTH SECTORREFORM      -      300.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     21.12     32.64    53.76         0.00
                 REFORSUS
PO38882    1995  BRRECIFE M.TSP                      102.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      9.23     9.23         0.00
PO06564    1995  BEL0 HM.TSP                           99.00    0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     11.64    11.64         0.00
PO06436    1995  Ceara UrbanDevelopment& Water       140.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      3.00      5.23     8.23         8.23
                 Resource
                                              Total: 4,718.90   0.00    0.00     63.00    393.81  2,454.29  1,631.22     373.20




                                                           BRAZIL
                                                 STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                              HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                 InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                           Committed                              Disbursed

                                                        IFC                                     IFC
      FY Approval   Company                  Loan       Equity   Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity    Quasi     Partic.
      1997198       Guilman-Amorim           0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
      1998          IcatuEquity              0.00        19.60     0.00     0.00      0.00      12.48      0.00      0.00
      1999          InnovaSA                 16.25        5.00     0.00    45.00      16.25      5.00      0.00     45.00
                    Ipiranga                 0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
      1980187197
      1999          Itaberaba                0.00         5.34     0.00     0.00      0.00       5.34      0.00      0.00
                    Itau-BBA                 40.00        0.00     0.00     0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
      0/00/02



                                                              102

1999          JOSAPAR             7.57     0.00   7.00   0.00   2.57    0.00   7.00  0.00
1995          LojasAmericana      8.00     0.00   5.00   0.00    8.00   0.00   5.00  0.00
1987192196199 MBR                 20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   20.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2002          Macae               68.61    0.00   0.00   0.00   68.61   0.00   0.00   0.00
0             MacedoNordeste      1.58     0.00   5.00   0.00    1.58   0.00   5.00   0.00
2002          Microinvest         0.00     1.25   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
0102          NetServicos         0.00     5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   4.65   0.00   0.00
1975196       OxitenoNE           2.50     5.00   0.00   0.00    2.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994          ParaPigmentos       15.05    0.00   9.00   0.00   15.05   0.00   9.00   0.00
1987196       Perdigao            8.75     0.00   0.00   0.00    8.75   0.00   0.00   0.00
1989195       PolitenoInd.        1.46     0.00   0.00   0.00    1.46   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994100102    Portobello          0.00     1.15   0.00   0.00    0.00   1.15   0.00   0.00
2000          Puras               3.67     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.67   0.00   0.00   0.00
2003          Queiroz Galvao      40.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998          Randon              5.13     0.00   3.00   0.00    5.13   0.00   3.00   0.00
1990          Ripasa              0.00     5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00
              Rodovia             0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997
1983          sococo              0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1987197103    SP Alpargatas       30.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994195197    Sadia               8.23     0.00   5.17   89.93   8.23   0.00   5.17  89.93
1997          samarco             8.10     0.00   0.00    1.33   8.10   0.00   0.00   1.33
1998          Saraiva             6.92     3.00   0.00   0.00    6.92   3.00   0.00   0.00
2003          Satipel             25.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   25.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
0             SearaAlimentos      0.00     3.88   0.00   0.00    0.00   3.88   0.00   0.00
2000          Sepetiba            27.00    0.00   5.00    8.00  12.00   0.00   5.00   8.00
1997          Sucorrico           3.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1999          Sudamerica          0.00    15.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  15.00   0.00   0.00
0             Suzano              0.00     1.27   0.00   0.00    0.00   1.27   0.00   0.00
2001          Synteko             18.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  18.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996          TIGRE               7.69     0.00   5.00    0.00   7.69   0.00   5.00   0.00
0192          TRIKEM              0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998          Tecon Rio Grande    5.41     0.00   5.50   9.89    5.41   0.00   5.50   9.89
2001103       Tecon Salvador      0.00     0.56   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.55   0.00   0.00
2002          UP Offshore         11.60   10.00   0.00   30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
0/88102103    Unibanco            0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1999          Vulcabras           11.67    0.00   0.00    0.00  11.67   0.00   0.00   0.00
1999          Wiest               0.00     0.00   8.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   8.00   0.00
2001         AG Concession        0.00    15.00   15.00   0.00   0.00   4.29   0.00   0.00
1996197      Algar Telecom        0.00     8.17   0.00    0.00   0.00   8.17   0.00   0.00
2002         Amaggi               30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         Andrade G. SA        40.00    0.00   0.00   20.00  40.00   0.00   0.00  20.00
2001         Apolo                8.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   5.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998         Arteb                20.00    7.00   0.00   18.33  20.00   7.00   0.00  18.33
1999         AutoBAn              27.60    0.00   0.00   23.72  27.60   0.00   0.00  23.72
1993194196   BACELL               0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998         BSC                  6.59     0.00   0.00    3.53   6.59   0.00   0.00   3.53
1993196      BUNGECEVAL           0.00     8.06   0.00    0.00   0.00   8.06   0.00   0.00
1990191192   BahiaSUI             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00



                                               103

1996103       Banco Bradesco               10.00       0.00      0.00   60.00     10.00     0.00       0.00   60.00
1988103       Banco Itau                   25.00       0.00      0.00  175.00     25.00     0.00       0.00  175.00
1997          Bompreco                     10.42       0.00      5.00    0.00     10.42     0.00       5.00    0.00
0             Bradesco-Hering              7.50        0.00      0.00    0.00      7.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
0             Bradesco-Petrofl             7.50        0.00      0.00    0.00      7.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
1994196       CHAPECO                      17.85       0.00      0.00    5.26     17.85     0.00       0.00    5.26
2002          CN Odebrecht                 51.78       0.00     20.00   113.57    51.78     0.00      20.00  113.57
1973178183    CODEMIN                      0.00        0.40      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.40       0.00    0.00
2003          CPFL Energia                 40.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1992          CW-Caderi                    0.00        0.51      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.51       0.00    0.00
1995          CambuhyMC                    1.88        0.00      0.00    0.00      1.88     0.00       0.00    0.00
              Copesul                      0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1997
0197100       Coteminas                    0.00        0.53      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.53       0.00    0.00
1980192l93   DENPASA                       0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1995196198102 Distel Holding               0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1998          Dixie Toga                   0.00        15.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    15.00       0.00    0.00
1987196197    Duratex                      8.33        0.00      0.00   25.67      8.33     0.00       0.00   25.67
1999          Eliane                       25.60       0.00     13.00    0.00     25.60     0.00      13.00    0.00
1998          Empesca                      5.00        0.00     10.00    0.00      5.00     0.00      10.00    0.00
2001102       Escola                       0.00        0.28      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.25       0.00    0.00
2000          Fleury                       7.71        0.00      6.00    0.00      7.71     0.00       6.00    0.00
1998          Fosfertil                    6.82        0.00      0.00   30.68      6.82     0.00       0.00   30.68
1998          Fras-le                      8.00        0.00     10.00    0.00      8.00     0.00       6.70    0.00
1994          GAVEA                        3.75        0.00      5.50     0.00     3.75     0.00       5.50    0.00
0            GP Cptl Rstrctd               0.00        9.67      0.00     0.00     0.00     9.51       0.00    0.00
2001         GPC                           9.00        0.00      0.00     0.00     9.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
                          Total portfilio: 779.52     145.67   142.17   659.91   640.42    111.04     123.87 629.91




                                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment

              FY Approval     Company                          Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.
              2003            Amazonas Water                 0.02         0.00       0.00       0.00
              2002            Andrade                        0.00         0.00       0.00       0.10
              2000            BBA                            0.01         0.00       0.00       0.00
              2002            Banco Itau-BBA                 0.00         0.00       0.00       0.10
              2001            Brazil CGFund                  0.00         0.02       0.00       0.00
              1999            Cibrasec                       0.00         0.01       0.00       0.00
              2003            Duratex I V                    0.00         0.00       0.00       0.01
              2002            Macae                          0.00         0.00       0.00       0.28
              2002            Net Servicos2                  0.05         0.00       0.00       0.00
              2002            Suape ICT                      0.01         0.00       0.00       0.00
              2004            TermoFortaleza                 0.06         0.00       0.01       0.11
              2004            UBBSwap Gte                    0.02         0.00       0.00       0.00
              2002            Unibanco-CL                    0.00         0.00       0.00       0.15

                                   Total pendingcommittment:    0.17      0.03       0.01       0.75




                                                            104

                                                Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                                  BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia
                                                                L a t h  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America    middle-
                                                      Brazil 8 Carib.    Income      Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(miliions)                          l74.5     527       2,411                     Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atas method, US$)                        2,830     3280       1,390
GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                         494.5     1,727      3,352                            T
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                             13        15        1.0
Laborforce (%)                                             17      2.2         1.2   GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                     per                                     primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             capita                                nrollment
Poverty(%of populationbelownationalpovefty line)          22
Urban population (%of totalpopulation)                    82        76         49
Lifeexpectancyatbirth(pars)                               69          71       69                            i
Infant mortaiity(pper looOlivebirths)                     30        27         30
Childmalnutrition(%ofchildren under5)                       6         9         11              Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource(%ofpopulation)           87        86          81
Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage d+J                            12         11        0
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)        152       0 0         111    -           Bazil
   Male                                                   196       0 1         111      -       -Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                 '69       P8         1x1

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982    1992      2001      2002
                                                                                      Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                              261.7  390.6     509.0      452.4
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                    211     18.9      212        8.3
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                                                                            Trade
                                                  7.6    x1.9      0.2        15.8
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      20.4     214      20.2        215
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                        15.3    20.1      19.6       18a

Current account balancelGDP                      -5.6      16      -4.6        -1.7
InterestpaymentsiGDP                              3.4     0.7       3.0        3.0
Total debtlGDP                                   33.3    33.0     48.3        51.3
Total debt servicaiekports                       81.9     211     76.4        702
Present value of debtlGDP                                         52.6        58.4
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                     334.2                                  Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02   2001     2002 2002-06                                                     -
(averageannualgroruth)
GDP                                       2.6     2.7      14         15       3.4      -Bra,?!/

GDP oercaDita
       .    .                             0.7     1.4      0.1      0.2        2 2                  Lower-middle-income QrouD
                                                                                                                         - .
                                                                                                                                    3


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                       9.0     7.7         6.1       6.1
Industry                                         45.6    38.7      22.3       21.0
  Manufactuiing                                  34.6    24.7       14.0       0.2
SePI ices                                        45.4    53.6      7t6        72.9
                                                                                                                                 -
Private consumption                              69.6    61.5      60.6       59.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                     xl.0     l7.1      8.2        8.3
Imports of goods andsewices                       8.3     8.4       14.2       0.6                   -GDI           -GDP


                                             1g82-92 1992*02                          Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgroruth)
Agriculture                                       2.5     3.5        5.7
Industry                                          1.6     2.3      -0.7
  Manufacturing                                   0.5      16         14
Services                                          3.2     2.8         1.9
                                                                                   -
Private consumption                               0.7      3.9       0.8
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      7.1     0.9         10        1.0  -20-
Gross domestic investment                         4.1      2.1       -11       -5.2
Imports of goods and services                     3.9      7.6        12      -12.8                -Exports         -Imports
                                                                                                                                   d




                                                                      105

                                                                                                                         Brazil
                                                    ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982        I992     2001    2002      Inflation ( O h )
Domestic prices                                                                                                                 1
(%change)
Consumer prices                           100.5        9516       7.7     7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      104.8       968.5       7.5     8.5

Government finance
(%of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Currentrevenue                                                  22.7     24.1            97        98     99    00    01
Currentbudget balance                                             3.0     3.1
Overallsurpius/deficit                                            3.8                   -GDP          deflator -CPI

                                                                              "*"T
TRADE
                                          1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                    Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total eworts (fob)                                   35,793   58.223  60,362
 Coffee                                               2,534    2,932   3,049
 Soybeans                                             2,696    2,726    2,199
 Manufactures                                        23,787   32,901   33,001   50.000

Total imports (cif)                                  20,554   55,572   47.219
 Food                                                   850     169     1,085   25,000
 Fueland energy                                       3,069    6276     6,281
 Capitalgoods                                         6,335    14,808  11,593        0

Ewort priceindex(S95-130)                    73          92       94       95           96     97     98    99   00   01     02

Importpriceindex(S95=WO)                     65          63       114      115                    .Exports       mlmports
Terms of trade (S95=rOO)                     1?2         147      82       82


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                    Current account balance t o GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services             21,967      38,999   67,545  69,968      0
Imports of goods andservices             24,761      25,7l7   72,653   61,863
Resource balance                         -2,794       0,282    -5,108   8,05      1

Net income                               -0,510      -9,382   -29,743  -8,191   -2
Net currenttransfers                          2       2,243     1,638   2,390
                                                                                -3
Currentaccount balance                  -6,302         6.143  -23.20   -7,696

Financingitems (net)                       11101      8.926    29,795  -3,570    -4

Changesin netreserves                      5,201     -15,069    3,418   11,266   -5
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      3,994      23,754   35,866  37,823
Conversion rate (DEC,loca!AJS$)         6.52E-11     1.64E-3      2.4     2.9


EXTERNAL DEET and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982        I9S2     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstanding and disbursed     93,932       P9,060  245,844  232,075
  IBRD                                    2,694        7,238   7,963    7,710                   G:      A:7.710    .,c
  IDA                                         0           0         0       0

Total debt service                        29,215       8,647  54,322   51,636
  IBRD                                       411       19u      1,362    1,518
  IDA                                         0           0         0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
 Officialgrants                              24          38        81       0
 Officialcreditors                          966        -936    2,742      9 6
 Private creditors                        7.580        5,a88   -1781   -9,541
 Foreigndirect investment                  2.910       2,061  22,636        0
 Portfolio equity                             0        1,704   2,482        0                  F:
World Bank program                                                                         l52.327
 Commitments                               1,090       1,344    1,624   1,276     A IBRD                           E- Bilateral
 Disbursements                              623          581    1,639   1,384     B IDA
                                                                                   --        D Other multilatefal
                                                                                                -                  F Private
                                                                                                                    -
 Principalrepayments                        215        1,266     828    1.063     C-IMF                            G- Short-term




                                                                   106

                               Annex 15: Letterof DevelopmentPolicy
                                      BRAZIL: BRBolsaFamilia

(INFORMAL TRANSLATION)




                      Ministry of Social Development and Eradicationof IIunger
                                            Minister's Cabinet
                             Esplanadados Ministdrios -Bloco "C", 5" anciar
                                    70046-900 - BrasilidDF - Brazil
                                     Phones:(55-61) 313-1690/1626
Letter OUGAB-MDS

                                                                                     Brasilia, April 14, 2004
Mr.VinodThomas
BrazilCountry Director
InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
Brasilia, DF - Brazil

Dear Mr.Thomas,

                Re.: In reference to theProposalfor Support to the Bolsa Familia Program

Itis with great pleasurethat we forward youthis document onpoliciespertainingto the re-organization of
the Federal Government's Social System.

Despite its diverse and multidimensional characteristics, and given its multiple determining factors, the
social reality of Brazil is vastly marked by poverty. Two thirds o f the country's population is afflicted by
poverty in its several facets and to various degrees o f intensity. In addition to the magnitude of such
challenge, it i s estimated that almost half o f all families considered poor are living in conditions of
extreme - approximately 11.2 million families have a per capita income o f up to % of the minimum
wage.

The context o f social exclusion as a result o f this situation stems from the accentuated levels o f disparity
that have historically accompanied the process of distribution o f wealth and social capital in the country.
Great difficulty has been faced inpromoting change inthis matter, even duringmore potentially favorable
periods such as those o f accentuated economic growth that could have been taken advantage of in the
undertaking of measures aimed at benefiting the less-privilegedpopulations. Not even duringthese more
prosperous periods was the documenting of relevant re-distribution policies capable of altering the
perverse notions represented by the perpetuation of social inequity possible.




                                                      107

In light of this deeply embedded situation, the recent years have been marked by the presence of a set of
initiatives in the scope of social policies focused on the mitigation o f the most dramatic challenges
imposed by extreme poverty. Although the programs enacted did not have a deper si nature capable of
eliminating misery, they have been o f immense contribution in the reduction o f poverty's most ominous
consequences. These programs have been remarkable in developing the basic potentials o f individuals
(especially those o f children and young adults in literacy programs), as their implementation is associated
to the obligation o f beneficiaries in meeting certain conditions - especially pertaining to education and
health.

An important step was taken toward optimizing and improving existingcash transfer programs with the
creation of the Bolsa Familia Program (ProgramaBolsaFamilia -PBF) in October of 2003. The Bolsa
Familia Program resultedinthe fusion of the Bolsa-Escola, Bolsa-AlimentaqBo, Auxilio-Gfis, and CartBo
Alimentaqb programs. This unification fostered the improvement o f managerial and administrative
optimization andwas not aimed at revoking the permanenceo f programs it would befall. Instead, it aimed
at striving for improved conditions in project delivery and the effective definition of objectives.
Furthermore, in this case, the unification represented the effort to overcome characteristics of public
policies undertaken in the country and that are both remarkable and depreciative. Some of these
characteristics include: i)pulverization of resources; ii)elevated management and administrative costs;
iii)overlapoftargetgroups;iv)competitionamongexecutingagenciesofdifferentongoingprojects;and
v) lack of inter-sectorial coordination and articulation.

The Bolsa Familia Program is a more ample and coordinated response to poverty than those that had
previously been promoted by the Federal Government to address the country's poorest families. In a
similar way as the succeeding programs and to those that will shortly be replaced, the Bolsa Familia
Program i s founded on the concept that if the worst consequences resulting from extreme poverty are
combated (lack of access to basic goods and sanitation services, malnutrition, low levels o f formal
schooling and high rates o f school evasion, perpetuation of illiteracy among the poorest adults, lack of
access to basic health services, etc.), a significant step will be taken inthe direction o f conquering a new
set of living standards marked by the principles o f citizenship.

At the rate the Bolsa Familia Program is moving, and if we consider the recently established goal of
incorporatingan additional 901 families residing in metropolitanareas by the end o f June, a total number
of 6.5 million families will have been reached out to by the end of 2004. Considering that the average
amount of benefits has increased substantially in comparison to the standards o f the previous programs
and that the newly encompassed contingencies did not have access to any o f the previous programs, it i s
estimated that R$6.35 billion be consumed by cashtransfer provisions untilthe end o f this fiscal year.

Hence, even though the above-stated estimate is very close to the original allowance o f the General
Budget of the Union (OrcamentoGeral da UniGo- OGU)and that the difference can be suppliedfor by
more favorable results o f tax revenue in comparison to the estimates o f the Budgetary Law, contracting
this loan from the World Bank is both relevant and appropriate. The risks of not meeting the established
milestones both in regards to increasing the number of beneficiaries as well as in regards to the average
amount of cash transfers received by families (as inthe case o f families that were selected from rosters of
previous programs) are significantly reduced through this loan.

Inwhat concernsthe description of the object of the loan request to the World Bank, it is also important
to mentionthe importance and relevance o f access to the resourcesthat will be employed infinancing the
defining, planning, and implementing o f a national articulate system for monitoring and evaluation of
measures gearedtoward institutional strengthening and to the continued improvement and updating of the
Bolsa Familia Program's procedures for the identification and selection o ftarget groups.



                                                       108

The loan request to the World Bank to support the Bolsa Familia Program encompasses the 2004-2008
time period and is composed of two phases. The first phase will take place between 2004 and 2006,
whereas the secondphasewill take place between 2007 and 2008.

This current proposal is entitled Support Project for the Bolsa Familia Program and is comprised by the
following components:

Component 1: supporting and increasing the Federal Government's financial capacity through
disbursement of the OGU by the National Treasury so as to meet the objectives of cashtransfers stated in
the 2004/2006 PluriannualPlan.

Component 2: strengthening and improving the system for identifying and classifying eligible
beneficiaries. This implies a set of ample and complex measures: investments in information technology,
supplying municipalities with the equipment neededto efficiently register beneficiaries, training of local
managers, reformulation o f the Cadastro Unico questionnaire, creation o f eligibility criteria of families
basedon a multidimensional set of poverty indicators.

Component 3: developing a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System for the Bolsa Familia Program.
This includes three sub-components: development of the concept for the overall M&E system with the
objective of increasing the effectiveness of the Program; monitor program processes to provide feedback
on the quality of service delivery and program implementationwith the objective o f ensuring its efficacy
and legitimacy; and monitor and evaluate key outcomes and the impact o f the program at the family and
territorial levels with the objective o f gauging the possibilities o f beneficiary families having access to
means of earning sustainable autonomous incomes.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening. This component's objective i s to strengthen the operational
institutional framework that is directly responsible for delivering the Program by strengthening program
management, developing a solid communications and dissemination strategy to disseminate information
on the Bolsa Familia Program to managers, beneficiaries and to the society in general. This includes
mechanisms to motivate and disseminate Bolsa Familia Program's innovative management and its
articulationwith complementing programs, as well as to disclose other initiatives incombating poverty.

Component 5: Project Management. This component addresses the allocation o f resources to provide
support to existing institutional structures associated to the Program, and finances incremental costs
relatedto management and supervision of Project activities.

The Program will be monitored accordingto scheduleand to performance-based disbursement conditions.

The World Bank's supervision missions and the project's executing agency will carry out supervision of
project milestones, inaddition to supervision through periodical audit reports.

Iclosethis letter with the certainty ofbeingable to count onthe WorldBank's support inthe
implementation o f such an important Program for Brazil.

                                                Best Regards,

                                               Patrus Ananias
                                              Ministerof State




                                                    109

110

111

112

n




  113


MAP SECTION


