Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB797 
Project Name 
BR Bolsa Familia 1st APL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (60%);Health (20%);Primary education (20%) 
Project ID 
P087713 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Federative Republic of Brazil 
 
Ministerio de Desenvolvimento Social e Combate a Fome 
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco C, DF, Brazil, 70058-900 
Tel: 55-61-313.1630 
Fax: 55-61-313.1728 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 10, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 7, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 17, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Brazil’s Government is committed to realizing the country’s large potential for welfare improvements 
through simultaneous actions on the economic and social fronts.  Deeper social progress is essential to 
improve the quality of life of the least advantaged groups.  The importance of achieving visible and rapid 
social gains while maintaining economic stability is further highlighted by the ambitions, high 
expectations, and hopes that rest on this particular administration.  Rapid achievements on the social side 
would consolidate broader support for economic responsibility and difficult reforms, thus strengthening 
the foundations for growth and for even faster social progress in the future.   
Despite impressive progress over the past decade, challenges remain.  Education indicators still lag due to 
Brazil’s low starting point, particularly among the poor.  Disparities remain in health care funding across 
regions, and in utilization rates across socio-economic groups.  Poverty has remained fairly constant since 
the mid-1990s even if the poverty profile has changed, with the effects of the recent economic slowdown 
being felt primarily in metropolitan areas in the Southeast.  In fact, poverty levels in metropolitan areas 
increased sharply, with the Southeast share of poverty increasing from 17-26% from 1998-2001.  Poverty 
incidence among youth also increased, and poverty rates continue to be especially high for those with low 
levels of education, as well as for indigenous and afro-descendent (quilombola) populations.  Related to 
these disparities, Brazil is still one of the world’s most unequal societies: with a Gini coefficient of 0.59 
for incomes, the richest 1% of the population receives 10% of total monetary income—the same share as 
the poorest 50%.  Analysis shows that income inequality in Brazil stems primarily from unequal access to 
education and a high skill premium for labor, along with a highly regressive pension system. 
Higher quality and more equitable access to education (including secondary and tertiary education) are 
key to reducing poverty and inequality in the long run.  However, the positive impacts of education 
reform take time to materialize.  Reforms to social assistance programs and a more equitable pension 
system can achieve complementary results sooner and substantially reduce inequality and alleviate 
poverty. 
 
Page  2
 
 
Reform Agenda: Integrating Social Assistance Programs. 
 As part of its dual focus of maintaining 
macro stability while achieving more equitable growth and rapid social progress, the Government recently 
initiated sweeping reforms to improve its social safety net.  These reforms seek to integrate several 
federal programs, including Bolsa Escola, Bolsa Alimentação,  Cartão Alimentação, and Auxílio-Gás.  
Although each of these programs maintained its own emphasis (promoting schooling, health care, food 
consumption, or compensating for adjustment), they all provided cash transfers to roughly the same target 
group of poor families.  Each program was managed with separate administrative structures, beneficiary 
selection processes, and banking-sector contracts for payments issuance.  These separate structures 
created inefficiencies and administrative duplications, resulted in considerable gaps and duplications in 
coverage, and missed important synergies from jointly promoting education, health and nutrition. 
 
Given these inefficiencies, the reforms seek to integrate these programs into a single, improved 
conditional cash transfer (CCT) program called the “Bolsa Família Program (BFP).”  The objectives of 
this safety net integration reform include: (a) consolidating and rationalizing existing federal conditional 
cash transfer programs; (b) promoting efficiency in the use of public resources; (c) improving the system 
for identifying the target population; (d) leveraging synergies from jointly promoting education, health 
and nutrition incentives; (e) strengthening monitoring and evaluation; and (f) leveraging opportunities to 
promote vertical integration in the social safety net between federal and sub-national programs.   
 
These reforms, and the design of the new Bolsa Família program, were supported by the First Integrated 
Human Development Policy Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) and technically by the programmatic Brazil 
Social Assistance (BRASA) ESW program (see below).   
 
The Bolsa Família Program.
  With this platform, the objectives of the new BFP itself include: 
(a) reducing poverty and inequality today, through the provision of direct monetary transfers to poor 
families; and (b) reducing poverty and inequality tomorrow, by providing incentives and conditions for 
investments in human capital on behalf of beneficiary families, and by linking beneficiary families to 
complementary services that could help them invest and grow out of poverty in the future.   
 
The BFP defines two target groups.  The priority target group is those “extreme poor” families with per 
capita monthly incomes below R$50 (US$17).  The program also targets those “moderately poor” 
families with per capita monthly incomes below R$100 (US$34)
1
 but higher than R$50 (US$17).  
Payments are preferably made to the mothers, as per the Bolsa Família law.  
 
The program will provide cash transfers ranging from R$15-95 (US$5-33) to target families.  The exact 
transfer amount will depend on income levels and household composition.  These amounts were set with 
the goal of minimizing the number of people benefiting from the previous programs that could lose under 
the integrated program.  Monthly transfers are expected to average about R$71 (US$24) per beneficiary 
family, significantly higher than average benefits of about R$24 (US$8) in total for the previous 
programs.
2
  On a per capita basis, this represents about 19% of the poverty line used by the World Bank, 
12% of IPEA’s poverty li7ne, and 6% of the minimum wage.  While these transfers could create adverse 
incentives to work (causing, for example, a reduction in total adult hours worked), available evidence 
suggests they do not.   
                                                          
 
1
 Brazil does not have an official poverty line and research institutions use different poverty lines that lead to different pov
erty numbers.  The 
poverty line used in the World Bank’s Poverty Assessment is set at around R$80 per month (US$27) and is adjusted for each regio
n using a 
regional price index.  This results in a national poverty rate of 28.7%.  IPEA’s extreme poverty line was established at R$62, 
yielding an extreme 
poverty rate of 14.6%.  IPEA calculates the full poverty line as twice the extreme poverty line, or R$124, resulting in a pover
ty rate of 33.6%.  
This value is close to that being used by the Government in their documents.   
2
 d’Ávila Viana, Ana Luiza (February 2004).  “Programa Bolsa Família.”  Prepared for the World Bank in preparation for the Shang
’hai Scaling 
Up events.  
Page  3
 
 
The transfers would be conditional on all relevant family members complying with key human 
development conditionalities as part of an important policy shift towards focusing assistance on the 
family (rather than on individuals).  Previous programs provided support and conditionalities only for 
some individuals within the family.  For example, under Bolsa Escola, school attendance was only 
required for up to three school-aged kids, but not for any more than three children.  The same was true for 
Bolsa Alimentação.  In addition, synergies are expected from the simultaneous promotion of investments 
in health and education within a family.   In some areas, the supply of adequate or the availability of 
culturally appropriate health and education services may be lacking.  The BFP is developing a policy to 
establish co-responsibility requirements for beneficiary families in these cases. 
The interaction between targeted CCT programs and the provision of more universal “supply side” 
services for health and education is mutually complementary: (a) on the one hand, the provision of quality 
health and education services is clearly a crucial requirement for conditional transfers to work; as such, 
efforts are being made to simultaneously invest in such services; (b) on the other hand, even if health and 
education services were universally available, CCTs would be needed to help alleviate common demand-
side constraints (direct and indirect costs) that prevent poor households from taking up these services.  
Investments in both the BFP, and in the supply and quality of health and education services, are thus 
crucial elements of a balanced human capital development strategy.  An inter-ministerial social committee 
has been established to help ensure coordination among the social sector ministries (and the Ministry of 
Education, for example, has also established a special secretariat to focus on the issues of inclusion and 
diversity in education, including coordinating links with the BFP).  
In addition, an important policy emphasis for the BFP is to foster bridges between Bolsa Família 
beneficiaries and other complementary services so as to help promote their “
emancipação
” (development) 
and to help them escape from poverty (porta de saída).  Indeed, Bolsa Família has opted not to establish 
rigid time limits for beneficiaries, but rather to help reduce their dependency on social assistance by 
fostering their development through these links.   
Bolsa Família is rapidly becoming one of the Government’s major social initiatives.  It surpassed its 
target of 3.6 million families in its first three months of operation in 2003 (reaching 3.615).  The program 
targets coverage of 11.4 million families (or about 44 million people) by 2006 and 12.7 by 2007, which 
will represent a significant scaling up of social assistance as compared with the (overlapping) coverage of 
its predecessors.   
Meeting these targets will require a significant but managed increase in financing, reaching a total of 
R$31 billion (US$11.5 billion) over the PPA (multi-year plan) period from 2004-07.  The planned budget 
is R$5.8 billion (about US$2 billion) for 2004, which is already over R$1.5 billion higher than spending 
on the separate programs in 2003, mainly due to the higher average benefits paid to Bolsa Família 
beneficiaries as compared to those on the previous programs.  In terms of shares of total federal primary 
expenditures and GDP, the program will rise from 1.1% of primary expenditures in 2003 to 2.5% by 2006 
and from 0.2% of GDP in 2003 to 0.5% by 2006.  This rise in spending needs will likely be offset by 
expected savings from the recently-approved pension reforms, estimated at 0.4% of GDP (or about R$8 
billion) per year during that period.  The shift in resources from regressive pensions to progressive 
conditional cash transfers under the BFP is an important part of the Government’s strategy to reduce 
poverty and inequality in Brazil.  Efficiency gains will arise from merging the programs, and will also 
partially offset these higher costs (thus allowing for greater coverage).   
 
The program is also seeking better complementarity and a pooling of resources with state and local 
programs for expanded coverage to further expand the pool of available resources.  This includes various 
types of partnerships, including: (a) some that seek vertical integration with existing local 
bolsa
-type 
programs (that would allow for a pooling of federal and local resources to either expand the number of 
Page  4
 
 
beneficiaries covered or increase the benefit levels); and/or (b) some that seek to link beneficiaries of the 
BFP with complementary services.  
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The broad objectives of the BFP are to reduce poverty and inequality and promote human capital 
investments among poor families through the provision of direct monetary transfers to poor families and 
incentives for investing in human capital.  As a Sector-Wide Approach, World Bank assistance would 
broadly support these same objectives.  As the World Bank’s financial contribution is relatively small 
(US$520.2 million, or about 8% of total conditional cash transfers under the BFP), it would be most 
accurate to state that overall reduction of poverty and inequality is the 
ultimate
 objective of the Bank’s 
assistance under the proposed project.  The proposed project would seek to strengthen the BFP’s ability to 
achieve these broader objectives of reducing poverty and inequality and promoting human capital 
development by supporting: (a) a consolidation of conditional cash transfer programs and reductions in 
gaps and duplications in coverage; (b) a strengthening of the system for identifying the target population; 
(c) the development of a monitoring and evaluation system for the BFP; and (d) a strengthening of the 
basic institutional functioning of the program.   
The proposed project is at the center of one of the core pillars of the Bank’s CAS – achieving a more 
equitable Brazil – and is closely aligned with corporate priorities of achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  The BFP will directly contribute to the reduction of poverty (MDG 1) and 
inequality in the short- and long-term.  In coordination with other government programs, many of which 
are Bank supported, it will also contribute to reducing malnutrition (MDG 1), achieving universal 
education (MDG 2), reducing child mortality (MDG 4), and improving maternal health (MDG5) through 
the demand-side incentives it provides for investments in education, nutrition and health (for pregnant 
women and young children). 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed Project will support one of the Government’s flagship social initiatives: the Bolsa Família 
Program.  
First
, it would help the Brazilian authorities to carry out and improve the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the BFP over the course of the project period, reducing overlaps and filling gaps in 
coverage. 
Second
, the World Bank loan would also help to ensure that the program receives priority and 
is protected from possible budget cuts during the project period.  
Third
, the proposed project would, at 
the same time, contribute to the financing of Brazil’s critical development priorities overall.  
Fourth
, the 
loan would provide critical additionality in technical design and implementation.  The activities supported 
by the loan to strengthen the system for identifying the target population, monitoring, evaluation, and 
institutional arrangements seek to provide important value added with respect to the entire program.  
In 
addition, 
performance incentives (see below) to pace disbursements against the productive activities of 
the BFP with technical improvements to the program, as well as on-going World Bank involvement in 
supervision throughout the project period, would help augment the impact derived from the technical 
components.  As such, the World Bank’s participation with a loan size that is only a small share (less than 
10%) of the BFP over the project period would nonetheless allow for a scale of impact on the content and 
performance of the entire program.   
This first ambitious 
program-wide
 sector investment operation (SWAp) builds on lessons learned in 
smaller SWAp components in previous projects, in Brazil and elsewhere.  It also paves the way for the 
use of SWAps in Brazil, as set out in the FY04-07 CAS, in support of high priority government programs 
where similar Bank policy and technical additionality can have a strategic and catalytic impact on a sector 
or large program.   
Page  5
 
 
The proposed project will draw on the significant technical assistance that the World Bank has been 
providing to the Government for the conceptualization and design of these reforms since March 2003, 
following discussions between President Lula and President Wolfensohn.  This support has been provided 
under the umbrella of the Brazil Social Assistance Program (BRASA, EW-P078828-ESW), a 
programmatic ESW/AAA program, including assistance on the overall design of an integrated 
program, issues pertaining to the system for identifying and selecting beneficiaries, and monitoring and 
evaluation of the program.   
The proposed project would also build on and complement the on-going PSRL program in the Human 
Development (HD) sectors, which emphasizes actions to enhance equity, improve the quality and 
efficiency of social programs, and increase accountability in the social sectors.  It will also entail 
significant synergies with the proposed HD Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), which would assist the 
Government in developing institutional capacity to monitor the progress and impact of its social policies.  
Specifically, the proposed TAL would provide support to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and 
Statistics (IBGE) to strengthen their household survey system for the purposes of monitoring and 
evaluating social policy, including the generation of data that would be highly relevant for monitoring and 
evaluating the performance of the BFP.  The TAL would also support a strengthening of monitoring and 
evaluation in education and health, which entails valuable inter-sectoral linkages for the BFP. 
More generally, the World Bank has acquired considerable technical expertise around the world in 
strengthening targeting systems, developing monitoring and evaluation systems for conditional cash 
transfers, and in promoting the types of institutional innovations envisaged for the BFP.   The Bank team 
consists of specialists who bring considerable international experience in each of these areas. 
4. Description 
 
The proposed first phase APL project (mid-2004 to end-2006) would consist of five components: one 
component that would reimburse the Government for expenditures on conditional cash transfers under the 
BFP; three mutually-reinforcing technical components to help improve the quality and basic architecture 
of the program; and a small component for project management.  
Component 1: Conditional Cash Transfers (Grants) (US$6,493 million in project costs; US$500 
million in loan financing).
  This component would provide support to the Government in consolidating 
and rationalizing conditional cash transfers, and in reducing duplications and gaps in coverage of the 
BFP, as part of a broader and balanced strategy for economic and human capital development.  For this 
component, the World Bank would reimburse the Treasury a share of the expenses on conditional cash 
transfers made under the BFP during the project period.  The category of disbursements would be cash 
transfers (BF grant transfers).  Disbursement percentages would increase as key technical improvements 
(“milestones”) are made, as discussed above.    
Component 2: Strengthening the System for Identifying the Target Population (US$3.7 million in 
project costs including contingencies).
  This component would provide assistance to improve the 
mechanisms used to identify the target population of the BFP, which constitute a key element of the basic 
architecture of the program.  With a more accurate system for identifying the target population, the 
program will achieve better redistributive efficiency, with a higher share of its resources going to the 
poor, and will be able to cover a larger share of the poor.  It will thus serve as a more efficient instrument 
for reducing poverty and inequality in Brazil.   
As with its predecessors (pre-reform programs), the BFP selects beneficiaries from a national database of 
potentially poor households called the “Cadastro Único.”  While the construction of the Cadastro Único 
sought to integrate household registries across the (previous) multiple programs in a very short period of 
Page  6
 
 
time, there are several aspects of the system that could be improved.  To do this, Component 2 of the 
proposed project will support activities to strengthen the system for identifying the target population of 
the BFP and overhaul the Cadastro Único system in several key areas: (a) clarifying the strategic 
framework for the overall system including conducting a study to identify other programs that could 
potentially use the Cadastro for eligibility determination; (b) revising the eligibility criteria for the BFP 
and the Cadastro questionnaire and data collection strategy, taking into account different local realities 
reflecting urban vs. rural settings (including population and poverty density) and diverse cultural, ethnic 
and racial characteristics of the populations; (c) reducing administrative errors in the Cadastro Único; and 
(d) enhancing the legitimacy of the Cadastro Único system; (e) strengthening the technical and 
technological capacity of the Cadastro Unit in MDS to monitor, verify and use the Cadastro Único, as 
well as the capacity of municipalities and other potential cooperating institutions for carrying out data 
collection and beneficiary selection.   
 
Component 3: Developing a Monitoring and Evaluation System (US$6.7 million in project costs 
including contingencies).
  This component  would support the design and implementation of a solid 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system.  Such a system would constitute a key element of the basic 
architecture of the program, and one that the Government has made a top priority since the launching of 
the BFP.  To support this, Component 3 of the proposed project will support: (a) the development of a 
strategy for the overall M&E system and support for capacity building in MDS in this area; (b) the 
strengthening of Bolsa Família’s management information system (MIS) which would provide up-to-date 
information on program activities and outputs; (c) the development of instruments to monitor program 
processes to provide feedback on the quality of service delivery and program implementation and to 
detect problems so that they can be corrected early, including (i) inter-government processes; (ii) annual 
Quality Control Reviews to monitor BFP processes (including verification of health and education 
conditionalities, the selection of beneficiaries, and payments); and (iii) support for citizen oversight 
(“social control”) mechanisms; and (d) the development, execution, and analysis of qualitative 
instruments and quantitative surveys to monitor and evaluate key outcomes and the impact of the program 
at both the “territorial” (municipal and sub-municipal) and family levels.   
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening (US$4.2 million in project costs including contingencies).
  
This component would support the strengthening of the basic institutional functioning of the BFP in terms 
of: 
\01\02
Strengthening of the operational institutional framework, including the legal architecture of the 
program (developing needed 
regulamentos
, operational guidelines, norms, etc. for the BFP and 
the Cadastro Único);  
\01\02
Strengthening program management, including: (a) clarifying and strengthening institutional roles 
for the basic functioning of the program itself, including developing a matrix of responsibilities, 
clarifying information flows for the Cadastro Único, and developing and implementing a system 
for verifying human capital conditionalities; (b) providing training and technical assistance on the 
system for verifying human capital conditionalities; (c) developing a strategy for operating the 
program in remote areas; (d) defining possible mechanisms for inter-governmental partnerships to 
help in expanding the program, increasing the level of benefits, and/or linking BFP beneficiaries 
to complementary services; and (e) developing an inter-municipal information network to share 
good practices, experiences with implementing conditional cash transfers and the BF Program 
across municipalities;  
\01\02
Developing a solid communications and dissemination strategy with consideration of culturally- 
and ethnically diverse publics, including: (i) establishing a “hotline” number with trained 
operators to answer questions on the program and the Cadastro Único (for the general public, 
Page  7
 
 
beneficiaries, other officials, etc.); and (ii) designing, printing and disseminating information 
booklets (
cadernetas
) for beneficiaries (including information about benefits and 
conditionalities); and 
\01\02
Evaluating and piloting social welfare innovations in “self-sufficiency” and “bridging” 
approaches and service delivery.  This sub-component would support initiatives (Subprojects) to 
help BFP beneficiaries develop tailored strategies for growing out of poverty (self-sufficiency or 
“
emancipação
” strategies) and gain access to complementary programs and services (bridging 
services).  These initiatives could involve various approaches, including: (a) social worker 
support to help beneficiaries develop these self-sufficiency (
emancipação
) strategies and bridging 
access to complementary services; and/or (b) the development of “one-stop shops” where 
beneficiaries can gain access to information about a variety of social services (including the 
BFP).  Some similar experiences have also been developed at the local level in Brazil.  The sub-
component would thus support; (a) international study tours and exchanges to share information 
on these various “
emancipação
” and “bridging” approaches; (b) consultancies and workshops to 
help design mechanisms for piloting and evaluating such approaches under the BFP; and (c) an 
“Innovations Fund to Promote the Self-Sufficiency (
Emancipação
) of BFP Beneficiaries” 
(Subprojects).  The adoption of Operational Guidelines satisfactory to the World Bank for these 
Subprojects will be required prior to disbursement on this sub-component.   
Component 5: Project Management (US$0.7 million in project costs including contingencies).  
The 
project will support existing institutional structures in MDS and a Core Management Committee (“
Nucleo
 
Gestor
”), led by the Executive Secretary (SECEX) and made up of managers of the relevant units in 
MDS, that would oversee the project.  To provide such support, the proposed Project will finance 
incremental costs related to management and supervision of Project activities.  These costs include a 
committee of external consultants that would help advise on overall project activities and strategy, 
consultants on each of the three technical components, consultants for the fiduciary and operational 
aspects (procurement, financial management, project planning and supervision), office equipment, and 
travel expenses.     
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL & 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT*
 
6513.5 
(of which the IBRD loan will reimburse 500.0 
in expenditures for conditional cash transfers under 
the BFP, provide 15.0 for technical assistance and 
project management, and provide 5.2 as capitalizatoin 
of the front-end fee)
 
* The total IBRD loan is US$520.2 million.  The BFP conditional cash transfers to beneficiaries (grants) to be reimbursed by th
e loan 
are funded with government resources that are largely earmarked for that purpose.  
 
6.  Implementation 
 
 
The Borrower will be the Federative Republic of Brazil.  The proposed project will be implemented by 
the newly-created Ministry of Social Development (MDS). MDS was created on January 23, 2004 with 
the objective of further integrating the management of Brazil’s social programs (as part of a broader 
integration strategy that also covered the integration of conditional cash transfer programs into the BFP).  
The MDS integrated three previous entities, including the Extraordinary Ministry for Food Security 
(MESA), the Ministry of Social Assistance (MAS), and the Executive Secretariat for the Bolsa Família 
Program (which was previously under the Presidency).   
Page  8
 
 
The MDS structure includes 
inter alia 
an Executive Secretariat (SECEX) under the Minister, which 
oversees two special departments, a Directorate of Special Projects (DPE) and a Secretariat for Planning, 
Budget and Procurement (SPOA), and which supervises the activities of five secretariats, including the 
Secretaria Nacional de Renda de Cidadania (SENARC); a secretariat for other social assistance programs 
(e.g., BPC-LOAS, PETI, Agente Jovem); a secretariat for food security; a secretariat for 
articulação 
(policy); and a secretariat for monitoring, evaluation and capacity building.  The SENARC oversees the 
operations of the Bolsa Família Program.  The BFP is also guided by the decisions of the President, 
supported by the recommendations of an inter-ministerial board (
Conselho Gestor Inter-ministerial do 
Program Bolsa Família - CGI), 
which is responsible
 
for policy coordination and promoting partnerships 
between the various sectors and levels of Government and with civil society.
 
 Institutional arrangements 
for various functions of the program also involve a number of other actors.   
To promote a mainstreaming of project activities and to contribute value added to the overall Bolsa 
Família Program, the proposed project will not be managed by a separate, specially created project 
management unit.  Instead, project management will be led by a Core Management Committee (CMC, 
Nucleo Gestor
), headed by the Executive Secretary (SECEX) and including managers from the relevant 
units of MDS, with support from technical and operational teams and advisory committees.  Overall 
strategic guidance would be overseen by the 
Núcleo
 
Gestor.
  Technical and content aspects would be 
managed by a technical team, and operational aspects (supervision, procurement, financial management) 
would be managed by an operations team in the Operations Department of the SENARC.   
7. Sustainability 
 
Three factors shape the sustainability of the BFP: Government commitment; the credibility and quality of 
the program; and fiscal sustainability.   
First, as discussed above, the BFP is Brazil’s flagship social program and it plays a central role in the 
Government’s development strategy.  Overall commitment to the BFP is extremely high, both in terms of 
support from the highest levels of government and in terms of broad support in the different branches of 
government (as evidenced, for example, by the rapid passage of the law establishing the program).   
Second, while rapid expansion is aimed at fulfilling the high expectations attached to the program and the 
need for quick results, investments in the quality of the program are also crucial for ensuring the 
sustainability of the program.  A solid system for accurately identifying the target population is the 
foundation of the program’s credibility.  The proposed project seeks to strengthen this system (the 
Cadastro Único) under Component 2.  Institutional strengthening – including a clarification and 
strengthening of the institutional roles for core program functions (such as the system for identifying the 
target population and the verification of conditionalities) and a solid communications strategy – is also 
central to improving and maintaining the program’s credibility.  Component 4 will support efforts to 
strengthen these functions.  Quality control processes are also crucial for building credibility and 
providing program managers with needed feedback to identify and correct problems as they arise.  The 
development of such processes will be supported by Component 3.  A solid impact evaluation can also 
promote sustainability of the program by demonstrating the program’s effectiveness and results.  This has 
been the case for conditional cash transfer programs in other countries – such as Mexico’s PROGRESA, 
where a solid demonstration and quantification of positive outcomes resulted in the resilience of the 
program across administrations (though the name was changed under a new administration).  Component 
3 will support the design and implementation of a baseline impact evaluation survey, which would then 
be followed up by an evaluative survey in the proposed second APL project.   
Third, with respect to fiscal sustainability, the program is expected to increase in size and resource needs.  
The program is expected to reach 11.4 million families by the end of the project period (2006), up from 
Page  9
 
 
3.6 million families at the start of 2004.  A significant share of these beneficiaries will be converted from 
existing pre-reform programs, so the marginal increase is smaller than if the beneficiaries were entirely 
new.  Nonetheless, the program will require a significant but managed increase in resources, from R$4.3 
billion in 2003 (even less for the pre-reform programs in 2002) to R$9.4 billion by 2006.  In terms of 
shares of total federal primary expenditures and GDP, the program will rise from 1.1% of primary 
expenditures in 2003 to 2.5% by 2006 and from 0.2% of GDP in 2003 to 0.5% by 2006.  This rise in 
spending needs will likely be offset by expected savings from the recently-approved pension reforms, 
estimated at 0.4% of GDP (or about R$8 billion) per year during that period.  The shift in resources from 
regressive pensions to progressive conditional cash transfers under the BFP is an important part of the 
Government’s strategy to reduce poverty and inequality in Brazil.  Efficiency gains will arise from 
merging the programs, and will also partially offset these higher costs (thus allowing for greater 
coverage).  The program is also seeking better complementarity and a pooling of resources with state and 
local programs for expanded coverage to further expand the pool of available resources.
 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The choice of project design benefits from lessons learned in Brazil’s relatively long and rich history with 
conditional cash transfers (both at the federal and at the local levels) and on international experience.  As 
discussed above, it also builds on the findings of an on-going programmatic sector study (the BRASA), 
particularly the in-depth work on safety net integration reforms and targeting.  Among the main lessons 
learned from these experiences are: 
(a) Instrument.
  Experience to date – albeit still very limited – reveals that as an approach, SWAps 
offer an enormous opportunity for leveraging up the Bank’s own financial contribution to provide 
impact on an entire sectoral program (rather than just at the project level).  By relying on the 
Borrower’s fiduciary framework (in this case for financial management only), the SWAp 
approach is responsive to client requests for a streamlining of Bank requirements by eliminating 
the need for maintaining parallel records and procedures only to satisfy the Bank’s own 
requirements.  In addition, task manager experience with an ongoing SWAp in Brazil indicates 
that the end result of streamlining fiduciary systems and requirements is that the Bank’s 
supervision process becomes focused more on providing technical advice and addressing sectoral 
issues that may arise, as opposed to focusing on procedural requirements that are best handled by 
fiduciary specialists.   
(b) Importance of strong borrower commitment, ownership and leadership.
  There is no doubt 
that the BFP has both high-level and widespread commitment.  Indeed, it is the Government’s 
flagship social initiative.  Support for the consolidation of conditional cash transfers as a way to 
build on previous successes and bring them to a new level of performance has been widespread, 
cutting across political parties, branches of government (with strong executive support and rapid 
passage of the Bolsa Família Law by the Congress), academic circles, civil society and even the 
media.  It is generally believed that such integration will improve the efficiency and equity of 
these instruments.  Internationally, providing conditional cash transfers to poor families has been 
shown to be an operationally feasible and politically acceptable approach to social assistance.  
Research has shown that concerns about cash subsidies being “assistentialist” can be overcome 
by: (a) linking the assistance to desirable behaviors such as sending children to school and for 
health care visits; and (b) giving the transfers to mothers whose decisions regarding the intra-
household allocation of resources often favor children’s nutrition, health and education.  Both of 
these conditions are features of the BFP.  Other concerns about possible “welfare dependency” 
can be alleviated by efforts to link beneficiaries to other complementary services that could help 
them “grow” out of poverty (as will be developed under the BFP, with the support of the 
proposed project).   
Page  10
 
 
(c) Importance of accurate selection of beneficiaries.  
Internationally, the impact of transfer 
programs on poverty and inequality has been considerably higher with an effective system for 
identifying and selecting beneficiaries.  Recent evaluations (including one conducted under the 
BRASA programmatic ESW) suggest that several aspects of Brazil’s Cadastro Único – the 
household registry from which Bolsa Família beneficiaries are selected – should be improved.  
Given its importance as a critical feature of the basic architecture of the program, the proposed 
project will support key activities to strengthen the system for identifying the target population of 
the BFP (and the Cadastro Único system).   
(d) Impact on educational attainment.
  Conditional cash transfer programs have improved 
educational indicators and outcomes.  An ex-ante evaluation by Bourguignon, Ferreira and Leite 
(2003)
3
 found that Brazil’s Bolsa Escola Program (one of the predecessors to the BFP) 
significantly increased the share of children in school and decreased the share that were only 
working.  Using similar methodologies, simulations suggest that the BFP could significantly 
increase total educational attainment and reduce repetition rates.  Mexico’s 
PROGRESA
 program 
(a conditional cash transfer program now called 
Oportunidades) 
has had significant impacts in 
improving educational attainment of the poor, raising total years of schooling by an additional 
0.66 years.  It has also contributed to increasing enrollment and reducing repetition and drop out 
rates.  
(e)  Impact on health and nutrition.  
Conditional cash transfer programs have also improved health 
and nutrition indicators, but care must be taken in avoiding the use of anthropometric indicators 
for eligibility purposes. Mexico’s 
PROGRESA
 program significantly improved nutrition and 
helped make young children more robust to illness.  IFPRI’s evaluation of the Bolsa Alimentação 
Program (one of the predecessors to the BFP) shows it had a significant impact on food 
consumption and dietary diversity.  Nonetheless, despite these positive impacts, the program had 
a surprisingly negative impact on child growth.  Since most of the mothers selected to participate 
in the program were former beneficiaries of a program (“ICCN”) that previously distributed milk 
and oil exclusively to underweight children, it is possible that beneficiary mothers assessed that 
the continued eligibility of their children would be negatively affected by their achieving normal 
weight.  This kind of strategic behavior had been widely reported by health workers monitoring 
ICCN beneficiaries.  The IFPRI evaluation also found that the Bolsa Alimentação program had a 
small positive effect on the growth of children who had not previously benefited from the ICCN 
program.  The implications of these results underscore the importance of not using 
anthropometric indicators for eligibility purposes and investing in significant public information 
campaigns to promote the positive messages of growth promotion.  In fact, the BFP includes 
growth promotion as a condition of receiving benefits for very young children, and does not base 
eligibility on evidence of malnutrition.   
(f)  Emancipatory Strategies and Bridging to complementary services.
  International experience, 
suggests that efforts to link (“bridge”) beneficiaries of transfer programs to other complementary 
services and to help them develop “emancipatory” strategies can be an effective way to help them 
“grow” out of poverty and reduce their dependence on social assistance.  The proposed project 
would support the development of 
emancipação
 and bridging approaches.   
(g) The need to establish a solid monitoring and evaluation system.  
Any new, large-scale social 
sector program needs to have a system to monitor program activities (MIS), implementation 
processes, beneficiary satisfaction and service delivery, and program outcomes and to evaluate 
program impact.  Such a system would include formal information mechanisms (such as surveys 
                                                          
 
3
 Bourguignon, François, Francisco H. G. Ferreira, and Phillippe G. Leite (2003). “Conditional Cash Transfers, Schooling, and Ch
ild Labor: 
Micro-Simulating Brazil’s Bolsa Escola Program.”  World Bank Economic Review, Vol. 17. No. 2.  
Page  11
 
 
and audits), but also citizen oversight mechanisms (social control) to promote transparency and 
accountability.  The proposed project supports the development of such a system for the nascent 
BFP.   
(h) Institutional and implementation capacity.
  Programs of this nature require sophisticated 
administrative capacity.  Although Bolsa Família is a new program operating under a new 
ministry, it builds on the foundations established by the pre-reform programs (e.g., maintaining 
the channeling of payments to beneficiaries in a fairly direct manner through Brazil’s extensive 
banking system).  In addition, many of the staff involved in the Ministry of Social Development 
in general and the BFP in particular have extensive prior experience managing or working on the 
federal pre-reform programs or similar local CCT programs.  The proposed project supports the 
strengthening of institutional capacity both at the federal and sub-national levels (via training, 
systems strengthening, consultancies, etc.). 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
OD 4.20 requirements were met with the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan in Annex 10 of the PAD.  
Consultations were held with representatives of indigenous and quilombola populations and 
anthropologists working with these groups as an input into the preparation of the IPDP. 
 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
 
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
Full Indigenous People’s Development Plan (IPDP) in Portuguese with an English Summary. 
 
Detailed project costing tables. 
 
Procurement Capacity Assessment (approved). 
 
de la Brière, Bénédicte and Kathy Lindert (2003).  “Reforming Brazil’s Cadastro Único to Improve the Targeting of 
the Bolsa Família Program.”  draft ESW, The World Bank.  
 
Viana, Ana Luiza d’Ávila (March 2004).  “Programa Bolsa Família.”  
 
10. Contact 
point 
Contact: Kathy A. Lindert 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: 55-61-329-8610 
Fax:  
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  12
 
 
Email: Klindert@worldbank.org 
 
11. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
