Dwunmng of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6066-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 176.5 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO SUPPORT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
IN THE ETHIOPIAN ECONOMY
May 27, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 6066-ET        Type: (PR)
Title:  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IN THE E
Author: BHATTASALI, D.
Ext. :34031 Room:J10129 Dept. :AF2CO
Thi doemadt has a vestdcled dibuoi sad asy be sed by Id?kI *ulMy In the pelonnawse of
thek olid ldues. Its codeoft may "d Mhewls be  bdoi d uUbohs Wodd Baonk sutbhbdhn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEm
(as of Aprl 27, 1M)
Cunrecy Unit   = Bir
US$1            = ErnS
DlBkT           = US0.2
ERRP         Emergency Recovery and Recon ction Program
GDP          Gruss Domeic Product
ICB          lMernation  Compeive Bidding
IFC          Intenational Finance Corporation
ODA          Oversmas Development Administion (UK
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
QR           Quantitive Restriction
SAP          Structua Adjustment Facility
SPA          Special Program  of Asstance for Africa
TGE          Trsitional Government of Ethiopia
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
FSAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFMFCLL USE ONLY
eC RQL pAim&sN BE Ew3ImII
PRESI1DENTS REPORT1'
Page
CREDff  AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY                            ...............................  i-i
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  ........ I
A. Recent Political and Econonic Developmens  ............................  I
Political Developments ........................................  1
Economic Perfomance Under The Previous Government  .                  .................   2
Economic Perfbrmance Since Mid-1991  .............................  3
B. Medium Tenm Macroeconomic And Structural Policies  .......................  5
Rehabilitation ..............................................  6
Macroeconomic Stabilization  .....................................  6
Structural Reform  ...........................................  8
Safety Net . ................................................ 9
Exteral Resource Needs  ......................................  9
C. Bank Group Assistance Strategy  ...................................   11
ExistingProgram   ...........................................       11
Future Assistance Goals And Satg    ..............................  11
Conditions For The Bank's Enlarged Program Of Support .................  13
Bank Support After The Transitional Period ..........................  13
I. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PRoGRAm, 1993-94   ...................  14
A. Strategy  .       .................................................   14
Objectives ...............................................  14
Basic Consideradons  ........................................   14
B. KeyIssues AndActions .........................................   15
Macroeconomic Stabilaidon  ...................................   16
Support For The Private Sector  .................................   20
Groundwork For Next Phase of Adjustment ..........................  27
1/      This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Messrs. Deepak Ehattasali (AF2CO,
Task Manager); J. Short and T. Burton (ODA, Consultants); M. Ruedin (Switzedand); C.
Norrl5f (Sweden); G. Olanrewaju and P. Mwanabutwe (African Development Bank); and
Abbay Deshpande and Fayez Omar (AF2ET). Mr. Enzo Grilli (DPG) was the Lead Advisor,
and Mr. Kazi Matin (AF4CO) was the peer reviewer. The Country Strategy Statement was
prepared by Mr. Lee Roberts (AF2CO). The maaging Division Chief and Department
Director, respectively, are Mr. Michael F. Carter and Mr. Francis X. Cola9o.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton. I



MI. TEE PROPOSED CREDff  ...........         ...................t..    28
A. SizeAndEAoect.dCofinancu.g 28
S. Disbursement                                                             28
C. Procurement 29
D. Management, Monitoring and Account     ................... 29
E. CoordinationWithM FAndOther Dono  ............................. 30
F. Conditionaity..                                                          30
IV. BENEFIS AND RIMS.31
A. Benefits .31
B. SocialImpact .... .                                                      32
C. Risks   ..33
V. RECOMM&ENDATION .34
ANNEXES
I. Economic Indicators.                                                     35
HI. Letter of Development Policy and Matrix .41
M. Supervision Plan .54



EMS[ SuLiAL Al>AlIS CREDff (SAC 1}
CREpl AMI PLQGAHMSt Y
IlqM   :            Govement of Ehiopia
Amout:             SDR 176.5 million ($250 million equivalent)
Wms                Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
DSIeUm:             SAC I will support the first phase of the economic policy of the Transitiona
Gover ment of Ethiopia (GE). The TOE's economic objective is to reduce
poverty tirough rapid labor-inive growth. This is to be achieved through
a fundamental trasfomation of the economy from cetralized planning to
makets, with a dominant role for the private sectr.  In the period
immedialy follow;ng its assumption of power, the TGE cocetaed on
rehabilitation and relief to cope with the problems of civil disruPton,
exeme poverty and physical devastation caused by prolonged interna
conflict. Since late-l99M, when agreement on a PFP was reahed, the focus
has shifted to reconstuction and strucora reform. In the first phase, the
program will consist of two main components: support for ecoAomic
stabilizaton, and support for the priae sector. For this, the following
actons are covered by SAC I: adjustments in key economic prices (exchange
rate, fiance and wages); improvements in domestic resource mobilization,
icluding a reduction in the fiscal imbalance; changes in the boundary
beween public and private economic activity; promotion of price signals and
competition; introduction of a market-based system for allocating foreign
excuange; trade reftoms; and safety net policies for those affected by
structural adjustment During the SAC I implementation period, the TOE
will also build institutional capaciies and conduct studies to assist in
designing the next phase of the economic reform program.
Economic growth is critical for reducing Edtopia's extreme povert.
EcOnOmic stabilization though fiscal reforms and the correction of
disttioos in key prices will promote domestc resource mobilization,
thereby reducing over time Ethiopia's high reliance on foreign assistce.
A review of public expenditures wil underpin strucur improvements in the
fiscal position, while helping the TOE to carry out efecve programs of
spendig fbr growth. Combining such measures with stronger economic
incentives, through trade refrm, the decontrol of prices, and the reduction
of public sector monopolies, will help esablish a broader role for market
signals and greater opporuiies for the private sector. The provision of
foreigl exchange to the private secor wil stimulate growth in agriculture,
where most of the poor are, and will encourage increased private trade and
g. Moreover, improved pricing of key inputs, combined with
he implementation of a more flexible labor code, will promote the use of



Ii
labor, which Is Etopi's most abundant fictor of production. This wiU
have a direct effect on reducing poveny. Finally, the removal of bottleneck
to upots will allow Ethiopian producers to expand production beyond the
confines of the weak domestic market.
Ria:                Ihe major risk is political. Democratization, nationality rights and regional
devolution are at the core of current politcal activities. The continued
mantance of security and reestablisment of the normal processes of civil
administration are essential to support economic activity. The front-loading
of refrm meures, the demouated commitment of the TOE, and the
absence of large social diions minimi  the risk of a major derailment
of ihe structural adjusutm  program. If the program is implemented
successfully, availability of the second tranche of fumding would prevent a
potential disruption of external support in the period during which an elected
Government assumes power in early-1994. However, although the TGE's
perfrmance on the economic front has been impressive, it is important to
reogcize that it is, as yet, inewerienced in implementing structral reforms
and dealing with markets and the private sector. Technical skills are in short
supply. Ihereore, the risk of weak implementation canot be discounted.
Not all of this risk can be migated. However, selective use of exal
technical assistance, carefid monitoring, combined with a willingness on the
part of the administration to make mid-course corrWctions, if necessary, wfll
minimize this risk.
Economic Rate
ofltdrn:            Not applicable.
Eatiaed
Mhe Credit will be disbursed in two tranches: $150 million equivlent upon
effectveness, and $100 million after a performance review to be held aroud
June 1994.



REPORT AND RECOMMATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TIE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP*ENT ASSOCIATION
1TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO SUPPORT SRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
IN THE ETMOPLAN ECONOMY
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed First Struchtu
Adjustment Credit (SAC I) to the Governwet of Ethiopia. The proposed Credit of SDR 176.5
million ($250 million equivalent) is to be disbursed in two tranches. It would be on standard
IDA term, with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    The proposed SAC I wil serve as a program under which early reform measures and
prwparations for later phases of adjustment will be undertaken. It will support a program to carry
out the initial phase of the economic policy of the Transitiona Government of Ethiopia (rGE).
The program, announced soon after it took office, was elaborated in the first-year Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1992/93-1994/95. The Executive Directors of the Bank, meeting
as a Committee of the Whole, discussed the PFP on November 19, 1992. The Country
Assistace Staegy for Etiopia was also discussed at that time, during presentation of the Road
Rehabilitation Project. The proposed SAC I operation fits within this Strategy. The Credit will
complement a recovery program supported by the multi-donor Emergency Recovery and
Reconstfction Program (EI), and the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) from the IMF
approved in November 1992. Several external donors also intend to support ihe SAC I reform
program, both dtrough direct cofinancing as well as parallel financing. They include the African
Development Bank, Council of European Communities, Denmark, Germany, The Netherlands,
Sweden, Switzerland and the United States.
L COUNTRY POUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Political and Economic Developments
Polital Deveopments
3.     The Government of Mengistu Haile-Mariam came to power in 1974, after deposing
Emperor Hafle Selassie. After a iong and devastating civil war, in May 1991 a coalition led by
the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front assumed power in Ethiopia, while the
Eritrean People's Liberation Front came to power in Eritrea. Following a "National Conference
on Peace and Demoray" in July 1991, the TGE was formed under a Charter that requires
national elections to be held at the end of a "transitional period" of approximately two-and-a-half
years. The stats of Eritrea, reintegrated with Ethiopia under a United Nations' resolution in
1950, was determined by an inteonally-supervisedreferendum on Aprfl 23-24, 1993. Voters
provided an overwhelming mandate for independence, which was declared on May 24, 1993.
Meanwhile, the TGE has iniaed an etensive program of political and economic devolution to
establish a federal system of govermen, and national elections are ploposed to be held in early-
1994.



-2 -
Economic Performance Under The Previous Goverment
4.    Ethiopia's considerable economic poeal has remained largely unexploited becase of
the political and economic problems of recent years. With 53 miliion people, it is the second
largest coutry in population in Sub-Saharan Afica. Uts known naual resources include gold,
platinum, taalum, soda ash, potash and atr  gas. However, except gold, none of these
resources has been exploited on a large scale. Instead, since 1974 the eoonomy has been based
upon a near-stapant agriculture sector, a narrow group of agricuItural exports, the producdon
by parastauJs of all basic wage goods and some raw materias, and a large volume of seevices
provided almost entirely by the public sector.
5.    Since mid-1984, when the previous Government adopted the Ten-Year Perpectve Plan,
the following major factors have influenced Ethiopia's economic performance: (a) state planning
and adminis ve controls over investment, rroduction and trade displaced market mechanisms;
(b) private entrepreneurship was replaced over time by the participation. of government
departme  and public entpdses in all major economic activities; (c) there was a diversion of
domestic (upto 15 percent of GDP annually) and foreign resources from economically-productive
sectors toward the maitanc of iternal security and conduct of the civil war; (d) afier sharp
improvement due to the coffee price increases of 1985-86, there was a steady fall in the exten
terms of trade (by nearly 35 percent); (e) the country suffered from large variations in weather
coditons, including a severe drought that caused extensive famine in 1984-85; (t) it received
the lowest per capita level of development aid in Sub-Saharan Africa; (g) the growth rate of
Ethiopia's population rose from 2.7 to 3.4 percent per year, more than double the rate of growth
in real income; and (h) economic policies that afected the key economic variables (for example,
the real exchange rate, interest rates, effective axation) were often poor, depressing rates of
reurn to exports, savings, investment and production, and were instrumental in creating a large
underground economy.
6.    Although the previous Government began to itroduce some reforms in earny-1990,
Ethiopi's economic condition had deteriorated markedly. A tight squeeze on foreign exchange
and contnuing war losses undermined the ability of the Government to manage the economy.
By mid-1991, when the TGE assumed power, much of the economic infrastructure was destroyed
or in an advanced state of disrepair. As a result, factories and farms lacked raw materials and
spare parts. Real output per capita had declined over the previous three years by more an 6
percent. By 1991, the gross investment rate had fallen to 10.4 percent of GDP, down from 15.8
percent just three years earlier. War, famine, and reductions in social spending had decimate
the human resource base. With a per capita income level of $120 per year and falling, infant
mortality rate of 134 per thousand, life expctncy f 47 years, and prmy   school enrollment
of 36 percent, its social indicators were among the lowest in the world. Neady 50 percent of'the
popuation was suffering from absolute poverty, with an estmated average per capia daily calorie
intake of 1,750-only 80 percent of the level determined to be necessay for a healthy life. Added
to this were the massive social cost of death, injury and dislocation in the wake of the civil war.
Recorded eangs from exports had collapsed to $276 million in 1991, compared to $459 million
In 1980. Debt servicing (accals basis) stoad at 79 percent of exports of goods and non-facr
services in mid-1991, compared to 7 percent in mid-1981, and debt servicing arrears had reached
$408 million. In addition, as a result of the effects of ealier fiscal imbalances and acute
shorages during the last months of the civil war, the rate of inlation rose to 45 percent,
compared to an average e of 5.6 percent over the previous three years. The budget deficit for



-3-
the fiscal year 1990/91 was 13 percent of GDP (including grants and accrued debt servicing), and
domestic bank fincing of the deficit reached 9.6 percent of GDP. She current account balac
of pamen deficit, before official asfers, reached 8.9 percent of GDP for fiscal 1990,91 (3.4
percent of GDP including all transfers). Gross official reserves had fallen to about one week's
worth of imports.
conoic Performance Since Mid-1991
7.    Given the stuation inherited by thfe TGE, it would be unrealisdc to have exwected a rapid
chnge in economic perfrmace without a resolution of Ethiopia's binding foreiga exchage
constaint. Although the shortage of raw materials, intermediate goods, and spare parts has
persisted, this constraint has been eased ptally through the ERRP. Real 'iutput, which fell by
over 5 percent duing 1991/92, is esmated to have grown by 6.5 percent in 1992193. These
estima  are subject to more than usua uncertity, given recent disruptions in Ethopias
statistical base. Nevertheless, several reliable production indicators suggest that a noticeable
revival in growth could be unlerway. Thus, for example, the production of cereals and pulses
rose by over 8 percent, and is estied in 1992f93 to be about 5 percent higher than the record
1990 level. The net production oe staple foods is also esdmated at 8 percent higher ta the
previous year. However, both domestic savings and investment, as proportions of GDP, have
continmed to decline. Ihe former reflects the return of private consumption to historical levels
and lower-t -expected revenue collections. The decline in the investment rate reflects a slow
response on the part of the private sector, inadequately offset by capital expenditures from the
TGE's budget.
8.    As assessed by a recent PFP review mission, there are some favorable signs with regard
to the aggregate macroeoonomic balances. Despite a sharp fall in government revenues, the drop
in militay spending is expected to moderate the budget deficit (excluding grants) for 1991/92 at
13.2 percent of GDP, compared to 16.5 percent the previous year. Similarly, for 1992/93, the
deficit b expected to be below the 11.8 percent of GDP assumed in the PFP. Import
compression restrained the cuent account bace of payment deficit to 8 percent of GDP
during fiscal 1991/92, down from 9 percent a year earlier. Again, the expected outcome for
1992193 is lower than the 16.2 percent of GDP deficit anticipated at the inception of the PFP
stabilization program. By end-March 1993, the year-over-year increase in the general price level
was only 7 percent, despite the devaluation of the Birr (the first since 1973) from Birr 2.07 to
Birr S per US Dollar in October 1992. In addition, gross international reserves now stand at
about 8 weeks of imports, compared to 7.2 weeks targeted in the PFP program. The successfil
completion of Paris Club negotiaions in December 1992 resulted in a rescheduling, on eanced
concessional terms, of Ethiopia's debt service (mcluding arrears) with a cut-off date of end-1989,
a three year framework for the rescheduling, and an initial consolidation period of December 1,
1992 to October 31, 1993. Debt relief secured from Paris Club creditors fr the initial
consolidation period is estimated to amount to $207 mhlion.
9.    Ethiopia's recent performance suggests that the TGE is beginng to asset control over
basic macroeconomuc management However, the size of economic imbalances remains daunting
ard unsustainable. Viewed from a different perspective, resource requirements are especially
large. Becase of the emergency recovery program and donor support (ERRP), imports have
begun to recover, some critical imputs have entered the economy, and dormant production
capacities are being reactivated gradually. In addition, improvements in the policy environent



-4-
for agIcultue, acoompanied by improved distribution of fertilizers, seeds and pesticides, have
already delivered visible gains, both through increased production and exports. Nevertheless,
contined macroeconomic stabiizaton and radical strucUra adjustment measures will be neded
to transform the economy and create the basis for a more robust and sustainable growth
performance. This will ned to be complemented by large flows of concession resources.
10. There are several potential sources of economic growth. In the near- and medium-term,
agriculture will continue to be the mainstay of the economy. It contributes about 45 percent of
GDP and 85 percent of merchandise export eaings (coffee, pulses and hides and skins). Nearly
two-thirds of exot go to the European market, through well-established market links. For
example, coffee and hides and skins exporting continued even at the height of the civil war,
although at lower volumes due to domestic supply disruptions. Increases in agAcultural export
volumes by 1995/96 to at Ikast the 1990 levels, combined with improvements in quality, wil have
a favorable effect on foreign exchge eangs and the domestic growth rate. However, the size
of the domestic market, existence of large food impomt imd availability of large cultivable areas
suggests that significant potendal also exists in food crop production. Peasant field crop activity
supplies nearly 40 percent of agricultural output, but performance has been disappointing until
recenty despite the considerable scope for achieving higher yields and incomes. Increases in
output through agricultural extesification and improved technology and extension, especially in
the livestock sector, are judged to be feasible over the medium-term. In tha near-term, the
avaiability of critical inputs, restoration of transport, institution of more liberal distibution
networks, improved publik security, and good weather will be the main factors helpin,
agricuural production.
11.   Nearly 80 percent of the popuation depends directly on agricultural income, and nearly
three quaters of the poor live in rura areas. Impfoved agricultura performnce is, therefore,
aWlso the key to increasing effective demand in the economy, generatng a higher level of domestic
savig and invesiAent, and meeting basic needs. This undoubtedly would provide a strong
gowth stimulus to the m  a       sector, which is almost entirely domestic market oriented
and largely under state ownership. However, the limited size of the private sector implies that
in the near-term, manufacturing efficiency wiU come mainly from the increased autonomy of
public enterprises and, as the availability of foreign exchange increases, from a phased
liberalization of the import regime. Nevertheless, private sector participation in all sectors needs
to be encouraged through the rapid removal of barriers to entry, improvements in incentives
combined with a looseing of production and trade controls, and pro-active measures to ease the
availability of inputs and foreign exchange. Because of Ethiopia's low wage costs, there is scope
for considerable growth in labor-intensive exports. These include leather goods, garments, and
processed agricultural products. In addition, the cost advantage extends to several import-
competing industries, such as building materials and wage goods. As effective demand picks up,
the potential for labor-intensive domestic production is expected to be realized tough an
expansion of private sector production.
12. Potentially, the mining sub-sector and services are important sources of future growth.
The former contributes less than one percent of GDP now. Several studies and geological
explorations suggest that, besides gold, other metallic mineral deposits, including other precious
metals, also exist. Ihe hydroelectric and geothermal sources of power and deposits of naul
gas remain largely unharnessed. Installed capacity is only about 1.2 billion Kwh, compared to
an estimated potential of 60 billion Kwh. Only 10 percent of the population is connected to



-5-
electric power, and other utilities are developed poorly by African standards. Ibis is true also
for banking, transport and communication services, which may be expeced to expand as growth
revives In the economy. Here too, the entry of the private sector, both domestic and foreign,
would be a critical facbr in providing investible resources and pressure for condual increases
in efficiency and improvements in quality.
B. Medium Term Macroeconomic And Structural Policies
13.   The Transitional Government of Ethiopia articlated it's economic goals and strategy in
two basic document. In November 1991, the TGE published a statement entitled "Ethiopia's
Economic Policy Dhuring The Trnsitionaa Perima' In September 1992, with IDA and the IMP,
the Govenment formulated the Policy Framework Paper for the period 1992/93 to 1994/95. The
former document states explicitly that the TGE would sidestep issues that are likely to be
controversial and concentrates on solutions t urgent economic problems upon which broad
consensus can be reached." In this, it recognizes the potential for disagreements among members
of the existng coalition that rules Ethiopia until general elections are held. Also, it responds to
a situation where public administration and the knowledge base may not be adequate, but where
policy errors could be cosy or irreversible. So, the TOE has postponed for later consideration
some Important areas of economic reform. Chief among these are ownership (but not user rights)
in land, private ownership of financial institutions, and price decontrol of a few selected services
and goods. Conversely, while the document oudines a policy for the transitional period, "it
would be open to continuity during the post-tansitional period with only minor adjustments."
Thus, the TGE does not limit its economic policies merely to the short term. The PFP, which
encompasses a broad range of demand- and supply-side measures covering a three-year period,
shows this clearly.
14.   Ethiopia's main economic goal is to reduce absolute poverty. This poverty is of two
kinds-chronic and transitory. Of the 17 million chronically poor (32 percent of the population),
three quarters live in rural areas. Their poverty has the following causes: lack of economic
opportunities; little or no access to productive assets and natural resources; and underdeveloped
human capital-poor health and education, including lack of skills. The population affected by
transitory poverty is heterogeneous, and includes mDre than 490,000 refugees. Vulnerability to
the effects of recurrent droughts accounts for most people in this group. Also, much of the civil
population dislocated by the war and military personnel demobilized when it ended in 1991
belong to this class. Altogether, about 50 percent of the population lives in absolute poverty.
15.   The TGE has adopted a three-fold stae  to reduce poverty. First, it intends to reorient
economic structures and policies to stimulate a rapid growth of incomes and employment. ITis
will enhance the economic opportmities available to all Ethiopians. Second, it intends to build
human capital to enable the poor to take advantage of the new income-generatig opportuities.
To achieve this, it will improve their access to education and training, health care, and other
social services. A strategy for human resource development is being prepared by the TGE,
including measures to tackle Ethiopia's rapidly growing population. Third, special measures are
also being put hito place to employ large numbers, who cannot obtain work through other lteans,
in labor-intensive public works programs to rebuild or expand essential infrastucture.



-6-
16.   The implementation of such a strategy Involves four main clusters of aions. These are:
(a) the           of existing economic and social lnfrastructure, and provision for selective
expansions and reguar ma_itenace; (O) maioeconomic slbzation to reduce the large
imbalances that characterize the economy; (c) MCU rform to transform the economic
system and to provide access to basic social services by the poor; and (d) the estatlishment and
malntenanc of an efficient and transitory eafg    to cope with the current social crlsis that
affects half the populaton. We discuss each of these below.
Rebabilitation
17.   Early economic rehabilitation actions concentated on the repair and replacement of
esseti economic assets and infrasucture and the provision of key imputs to squeeze out higher
growth from existing facilities. The ERRP, under implemention since May 1992, represents
the core of this effort. This program provides seeds, fertilizers, spare parts, constucton
material, hding and equipment for the rebabilitation of social infrastructure (health and
education) and   portion (for example, trucks and buses, ports, the railway, and civil
aviation). Ihere is a special focus on the rehabilitation of transport and road networks. The
density of roads in Ethiopia is significantly lower than in most other African countries. Here,
actions involve, for example, improvements in the road maintenance capacity of the Etidopian
Roads Authority. Rural roads are especially scarce. This has an adverse effect on both the
production and markeing of crops intended for the domestic and export markets. Therefore, the
Govenment intends to complement the initW efforts under FRRP by beginnig a program for
such roads during 1993, using largely community-based prog..ns. Rehabilitation of the lifeline
Addis Ababa-Assab road is also underway. The next phaset of investments and reforms in the
area of physical nfrastructure, while continuing to focu on Immediate reconsuction, will
introduce the additional consideration of selective upgrading and expansions of infrastructure to
support the mediumterm needs of the economy. These needs are enormous, and must be
assigned pnorties within detailed sector programs. Transport and distribution infrastructure will
contine to draw the major part of public infrastructure spending. However, the revival of
growth will result in the rapid emergence of shortages in energy supplies. Energy consumption
per capita is less than one-seventh the average level for low-income countries. Further
development of hydropower potental and exploitation of natural gas as an altermative energy
source, also for potential export, are planned.
Maroeconomic Stabilation
18.   Low and stable inflation, appropriate investment and production incentives, and
unintrrpted avaiability of foreign exchange are essential supports for encouragir' the private
sector, hence the sustained growth of incomes and opportunities. In the PFP, thtii lovernment
has moved to design a coherent macroeconomic framework to revive growth, mprove the
effectiveness of public and private investments, and to support the change to a market-based
economy. The main elements of this framework are: (a) increased domestic resource
mobilization, through an enhanced government revenue effort and improved incentives for private
savings; (b) reduction in the fiscal imbalance and inflationary financing of the deficit; (c)
correction of price distortions; and (d) reduction of the extern  imbalance through appropriate
incetives for exports and restructurng of extrna debt servicing.



-7 -
19.   (a) Today, forelgn savigs (oans and grants) fund all of domestic investment in Ethiopia.
Both public ad private savings will need to rise sharply to keep Ethiopia's growth path stable
and susainable. Historically gross investment has averaged about 15-16 percent of GDP. To
achieve faster growth In output and employment, Ethiopia requires an increase by the end of the
PFP period (19949  to about 24 percent of GDP. In addition, higher growth will require sharp
increases in the efficiency of public investment, and in their effectiveness in complementing
private economic activity. Raising goverment savings to finance investment is less an
expenditure than a revenue problem. The later has falen from traditional levels of 25-30 percent
of GDP to 15 percent this year. Revenue goals consist of convertir- to a market-based system
of assessment and collection, overdue adjustmens In rates and covurage, and Improvements in
tax coordinton and administration Regarding private savings, increased incomes, improved
tation of income, and stable and low inflation are the main elemants that will provide the right
incentives. The introduction of positive real interest raes will encourage greater savings through
the financial system.
20.   (b) The fiscl deficit (including grants but excluding foreign loans) iS eWpected to rise
initly from the fiscal 1991/92 level of 10 percent of GDP, but then decline by the end of the
PFP period to about 8 percent of GDP. The deficit remains large because of the vast resource
needs for rehabiliaion, reconstuction and resetdement. However, the potential inflationary
effect of the large deficit will be reduced by foreign concessional financing. All domestic bank
financing of the deficit will be stopped by the end of the PFP period. Besides the revenue
measures mentioned above, actions to contain current expenditures-reducing the growth of the
wage bill, limiting purchases not required for operations and maintenace in the economic and
social sectors, and cuttg budgetary subsidies-are also planned. A comprehensive review of
public expenditures is needed to direct this effort.
21.   (c) Price flexibility will play a significant role in stabilizing the economy by contributing
to a supply response. Initally, it can be expected to bring prices rapidly in line with actua
demands and supplies, correcting the major distortions that occurred under the previous
Government. Adjustments in some key prices-official exchange rate, deposit and loan inteest
rates, public sector wages-have already occurred, or are underway. These measures will provide
a better guide to investment and production, especially when supported by product price
liberlization and adjustments in tariffs for selected public services. Although recent price
changes mav not yet have Improved the domestic terms of trade for agricultur-necessary to
lessen food shortages, stabilize prices, and increase the incomes of the poor-incentives for
tadeable goods production have improved markedly. The TGE proposes to continue price
decontrol at both the wholesale and retail levels.
22.   (d) Due to Ethiopia's massive import needs, the externa deficit is expected to widen to
about 21 percent at the end of the PFP period. A sharp increase in disbursements of extera
concessional financing, to an average of about $950 million during 1992/93 to 1994/95, combined
with total debt relief of about $1.36 billion, are required to finance the deficit and the
accumulation of a prudent level of reserves. Although actions to improve the externa balance
can only be expected to show results over the medium term, a set of coordinated measures is
proposed. While providing stronger price incentives for the production of tradeable goods,
acdons to reduce the inherited anti-export bias in Ethiopia's economic system will be given a high
priority. The maintenance of a competitive exchange rate is key, to be coordinated with
appropriate dcanges in the trade regime. This will be synchronized with the expanded provision



-8-
of foreign exchange to the private sector for external payments. Further, a significant
enhancement of the convertibility of the Birr will occur by the end of the PFP period.
Structural Reform
23.   The TGE recognizes that the generation of growth to reduce poverty will involve a
structural        a, rather than mere reforms within the existing system. The challenge
is to transform a highly directed centrally planned system to one based on the functioning of
markets. In this system, the private sector would play the key role in production, and the public
sector would focus on providing stable and supportive policies, critical infrastructure and
iform ation, and support for hum   resource development. The TGE's economic policy has
detailed an extremely ambitious program in this area, perhaps with inadequate attention to the
complexity of the process. Structural reforms will stretch over several years, and will require
contuous evauaon and anodification as economic conditons change. The sequencing of
reforms will need to be tailored to implementation capacities. It will also be designed to benefit
from complementarities, minimize transitional costs, and build support for the program both
domestically and abroad. Ihey wil build on the steps already underway for generating economic
recovery and stabilization (paras. 18-22 above). This phase, which is the focus of the proposed
SAC L will provide the private sector with expanded opportunities. This would be achieved
through an improved enabling environment, reducing barriers to entry into activities reseved for
the public sector, and greater access to inputs, especially foreign exchange. The following phase
of adjustment will begin the difficult process of reforms in the public sector and financial system.
For this, a stronger knowledge base and significantly greater policy making and institutional
capacites are required.
24. There are several policy and institutional measures for improved efficiency In resource
use and structura change. Chief among them are those that will ensure increased scope for the
prvate sector and competitive markets, closer integration of Ethiopia with the international
economy, and human resource development. Initially, the TGE has atempted to create markets
by freeing some prices and distribution, and by diminishing the monopoly of parastats in a few
sectors. Further, major pieces of legislation have been promulgated or are planned to support
the establishment and operation of markets. These include revisions of laws governing
investments, labor, public enterprises, general business, fiancial institutions, and taxes. As the
economic reform process unfolds, it wiUl be necessary to formulate implementing regulations, also
to modify existng legislation in the light of experience. Improvements in economic management,
including better support for macroeconomic stabilization, are also planned. These include
changes in policies and insfitutions concerning taxation, foreign exchange allocation, money and
banking, and trade. In agriculture, support for an enhanced supply response will focus initially
on guaranteeing land user rights, maintaining or deepening the liberalization of prices and
distribution, privatzing state farms, and improving the access of farmers to inputs and
agricultural support services. For parasuals, reform will begin by hardening the budget
constraint, strengthening management autonomy, and reducing the size of selected firms. In
addition, efforts to reduce the monopoly power of parastatas will continue, especially in trade,
transport and construction. Later measures will focus primarily on the financial sector, public
enterprises, civil service reform and the security of landholding.
25. As adjustment proceeds, structural measures to realign the budget toward more effective
social spending, especially the expansion of access by the poor to health and education, wil



-9-
increasinly become the focus of the reform effort. The enhamced quality of primary education
and health care, combined with a better geographical spread of facilities, will be given priority.
Development of a coherent stay    and programs for improving access to basic social services
Is under way, but will take some time.
Safety Net
26.   ITe TGE has embraced two differnt, but related, concs of the safety net. The
massive poverty-both chroic and transitory-that affects Ethiopia requires urgent attention. The
gains from structural reforms will be visible only with a lag. The TGE has started to move ftom
the wasteful regulation of prices of essential consumption goods to better targeted interventions
to support the consumption and incomes of the poor. It is considering the use of cash-
denominated vouchers for the purchase of food and kerosene in urban areas and production inputs
in rural areas, and the introduction of a labor-intensive public works program. Always, the
programs wiUl be targeted narrowly, they will be trsitory, and will be accounted for explicitly
in the budget. The second concept of a safety net relates to mitigating the social costs that
inevitably arise during the expenditure-switching and expenditure-reducing phases of stabilization
and reform programs. Tle October 1992 public sector salary adjustment, intended to compensate
partially for recent price increases, represents one aspect of suck measures. Here too, the TGE
intends to focus on a narrow targeting of benefits to groups affected by the adjustment program.
In this regard, steps are underway to design appropriate retrenchment schemes for public
employees made redundant by the early measures to limit parastatal monopoly power and
introduce hard budget constraints. To complement and direct this effort, the I-GE has established
a National Economic Reform Task Force, under the Prime Minister, which wil monitor the
entire reform process.
Extenal Resource Needs
27. Ethiopia's undoubtedly massive resource needs cannot be estimated with great precision,
given the complex nature of its reconstruction and development challenge. In addition, under the
previous Government, Ethiopia had accumulated eternal debt servicing arrears. In November
1992, arrears on hard currency debt servicing stood at $595 million, while arrears on debt owed
to the former Soviet Union stood at Rubles 795 million. In March 1993, becuse of the Paris
Club rescheduling, and assuming comparable terms on a flow basis from non-Paris Club creditors
(but excluding Ruble-denominated obligations), it is estimated that Ethiopia may receive debt
relief equivent to $723 million for 1992/93, $162 million for 1993/94, and $143 million for
1994/95. This would enable it to bring down the projected debt sericing ratio (for scheduled
payments) fiom 38 percent and 30 percent in 1993/94 and 1994/95, respectively, to 20 percent
and 18 percent for the same years. The TGE has contacted all official creditors to reschedule
Ethiopia's debt service and ousanding arrears in line with the terms detmined by the Paris
Club. If the Rubledenominated debt is taken into account, non-Paris Club creditors would need
Jo provide more concessional debt relief than in the Paris Club agreement if the financing gap is
to be closed. A recendy concluded bilateral agreement has indeed provided significantly better
terms. Discussions are exected soon with the Govermment of Russia on the outstanding Ruble-
denominated debt.
28.   Inplemeon of the stabilization and structural reform measures described above should
trengten the balance of paymens, but only gra y. Export eags now cover bary one-



- 10-
fifth of total import needs. In recet years, earing from non-factor senrices-reflecting
increased earnings by Ethiapian Airlines and Ethiopian Shipping Lines-reached nearly 50 percent
of export earnings. In addition, with the introduction of h am  (own resources) Imports
by the private sector in the lat-1980s and inflows for relief operations in the aftermath of the
1984 drought, private transfe  grew rapidly, averagig 40 percent of export earnings. Both
sources of foreign exchange cushioned the effect of the large trade deficit. In 1991 and 1992,
import volumes fell dratically, reflectng mainly the sharp reduction in military and other
government outlays as well as a decline in general imports for production. However, as growth
revives and imports are restored to their historical levels, the importance of increased exports will
be heightened. For the PFP period 1992/93 to 1994/95, import volumes are projected to rise at
an average rate of 9 percent per year. An etern  reserves target of roughly three months of
imports is considered appropriate, which would imply an annual increae of about $130 million.
The availability of inputs, improved domestic security and transport, and recen actions to
improve exchange rate incentives will have a favorable effect on exports. Even so, it is expected
that the volume of traditional exports in 1994/95 will remain below the levels reached in 1988
and 1989.
29.   As shown in Annex I, the projected level of imports of goods and non-factor services is
$ 1.8 biXlion in 1993/94; in 1991/92 they were $1.3 billion. After accouitng for the recent debt
relief obied through the Paris Club and comparable terms from other official creditors,
scheduled iterest and amordzation payments for 1993194 are estiatd at $327 million; for
1994/95 they are estimated at $312 million. The total foreign exchange requirement for 1993/94,
consistng of imports of goods and services, amortization payments, and an increase in gross
official reserves, is $2.3 billion, while foreip exchange eangs are expected to provide about
$1.2 biUlion. Of the difference, $598 million is expected to be funded through disburse
from exist  commitments, leaving a fimancing gap of $492 million. For 1994/95, this gap is
projected at $522 million. These gaps will need to be covered by disbursements from the
proposed SAC I and associated cofinancing, as well as by yet-to-be-identified sources. The
sccessfid completion of the current debt reschedling discussions with non-Paris Club creditors
will offer additional relief.
30.   Total disbursements from SAC I for 1993/94 are estiated to reach $130 million.
Provided early progress is made by the TGE in establishing a trade verification mechanism for
procurement under the Credit, as much as $20 million of the first tranche of $150 milion is
expected to cover the retroactive financing of imports undertaken during the last two months of
the 1992/93 fiscal year. In addition, disbumn  from cofnanciers are projected at $175
million, leaving a residual gap of $25 million to be funded by disbursements from new
commitments. For 1994/95, SAC I disbursements would consist entirely of the second tranche
of $100 million. Cofinancing amounts are estima  at $27 million, leaving a residual gap of
$252 million. Clearly, for both 1993/94 and 1994/95 there is need for additional debt relief and
project and quick-disbursing funds to cover Ethiopiaes projected balance of payments deficits.



C. Bank G6op Assitace Strategy
Eisting Progra
31.   Before May 1991, the Bank Group restricted its actvities in Ethiopia to a core IDA
lendig progam, and one active IFC operation. The failure of the previous Govenment to
produce a coordinated reform progrm and the continued state of civil disruption limited the size
and nate of the 1DA portfolio. Ite 16 operations from ths period that are now in the portfolio
repreented a total commitment of $729 million. Ihey responded to high priority needs for social
support, as well as the need to ensure that infrastructure woud be in place to support a program
of development once agreement was reached on policy reforms. However, implementation of
many of these projects slowed because of the adverse policy environment, insutional constaints
restilug from rigid monopoly arrangement in the implementing agencies, and contuing
isci as the war escalated. IFC limited its activities due to the severe restrictions imposed
by the Government on the private sector. The only IFC operation was a largely undisbutsed
1989 equity investment of $7.8 million in petroleum and nat    gas development in the Red Sea,
recently canceled.
32. In 1992, the Bank coordinated a consortium of donors to support the TOE's efforts to
reoonstruct its war-tom  infucure, jump-sart economic production, provide essential
medicines, and launch a pilot social fund to provide support for community-led efort to rebuild
destroyed local facilities. The multi-donor ERRP (see para. 17) has succeeded in mobilizing
about $600 million in total etal support for Ethiopia's immediate needs. The sum includes
a new IDA commitment of $150 million and $80 million restuctured from the exsti  portfolio.
TMe undisbursed portion of IDA's current portfolio in Ethiopia is large-$645 milion out of $975
million in exist  commitments (icluding ERRP and the Road Rehabilitation Project)-reflecting
mainly the unsettled condiions of recent years. However, disbursement of the IDA-supported
portion of the emergency program is better than the average for both Ethiopia and Sub-Saharan
Africa. Ii November I992, the TGE indicated that it had established several groups to review
all projects to restrucure them as appropriate and speed up disbursements.
Futue Assisbnce Goal And Sttegy
33.   While no investments are planned, given the improved policy environment IFC intends
to become more active in Ethiopia if the TOE can maintain peacefud conditions and deepen
measures to stimulate private investment.  Investment priorities would focus initialy on
supporting the privatization of selected industrial public enterprises; financing the rehabilitation
and expansion of these enterprises; and helping writh financial sector reforms that establish private
sector instutions and mechaisms to mobilize funds for private investment.
34. Ethiopia has been a full member of MIGA since July 1991. To date MIGA has not
insured any investments in Ethiopia, and has registred only one expression of inerest for
investment in the transport sector. Ihe policy advisory and foreign investment advisory services
have not yet been active in Ethiopia, although contacts have been made recendy by a FIAS team
with the TGE's investment office.
35. The aim of the Bank's assistance program will be to support the Government's efforts to
reduce poverty. There are three main strands to this support. Ihe first consists of measures that



- 12 -
will result in employment generating and enrometally sustainable growth, the most efective
and sustainable basis for eradicating poverty. The second consists of measures that will rapidly
improwve the quality and distribution of essential soci services, and build the base for longer
term human resource development, with a special focus on improvig the economic participation
of women The hid strand consists of providing general, but non-lending, support to establish
safety-nets to protect the most vulnerable from the transitory negative effects of adjustment. The
TOE has accepted the responsiility for making its own budgetary provisions for these measures,
but its capacity to do so will depend in part on the local counterpart of quick-disbursing balance
of payments support that will come from the Bank and other donors.
36.   The Bank has set four specific &oa8 in griot areas for the remainder of the transitiona
pVjo4. So long as there Is adequate progress toward adjustment goals, we will provide an
increased level of support oompared to the previous core program.
37.   Th' Bank's participation in the TGE's program to revive investment and production
will be supported initially by the proposed SAC I. IDA also will support selected initiatives that
complement direct measures for economic growth and employment. These include a National
Seeds Project to improve the quality and distribution of improved seeds, and a Fertilizer Project
to improve the distribution and widen the use of feriizer in the peasant sector. In addition, the
reconstruction of economic infrasucture will be supported by the Road Rehabilitation Project
(approved by the Board on November 19, 1992), and a Public Works Project which will use
labor-intensive methods to contime actions strted under the ERRP to rehabilitate key roads,
water supply and other priority fcilities, and to support conservation efforts. Finally, the Calub
Gas Project represents the first exploitation of Ethiopia's large gas reserves. It wiU provide an
important alternative to reliance on traditional energy sources, will contribute to environmental
conservation, help the development of the disadvantaged Ethiopian-Somali region, and provide
alternative employment to women fuelwood carriers. Because of the proximity of the project site
to the border with Somalia, adequate secuity wiUl need to be ensured.
38.   Five Bank initiatives are proposed for Improving the access of the poor to basc
educedion and health services. Initially, the existing Family Health Project ($33 million, of
wbich nearly 85 percent remains undisbursed) will be restructured to support the urgent
rehabilitation of health facilities and improve health sector management. This will be followed
by an operation to improve matal healt, id care and family planning, probably through the
provision of essential supplies. ThWd, the existing Seventh Education Project will be restructured
to strengthen the focus on basic education. The fourth activity will be the monitoring of the
ERRP's pilot social fimd, to lay the basis for broadening the pilot both in scope and to other parts
of the country. Finally, during the traisitional period, with other donors the Bank wiUl launch
a major human resource development study to support the TGE's planning efforts for this crucial
sector, to develop a strateg for the dhange from relief to development aid, and to lay the base
for famre Bank and donor operations in this area.
39.    The third specific goal for the transitional period wil be to contribute to the
development of a sound analytical base for investment in several sectors. Besides human
resources development, discussed above, the other major studies proposed are: (a) agricultural
sector memorandum (including a review of small-scale irrigation schemes); (b) rural roads study;
(c) a national environmental action plan to follow the soon-to-be completed forestry action
program; (d) updates of previous studies on the financial and industrial sectors; (e) energy sector



- 13 -
review; (f) a review of public expenditures; and (g) additional work on poverty assessment (to
eted the assssment prepared in 1992 as an input for the PFP). Also, the Bank will arnge
cooperative work plans with UNDP to strengthen economic policy analysis and sector planning.
40.   Finally, the Bank will support the TGE's efforts to set up an effecve donor
coordination medcani, and to help mobilize donor support for its programs. With its
agreement to enter a program of adjustment, Etiopia is now eligible to participate in the Special
Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA). A successfil Consultadve Group meeting took place
during November 23-24, 1992, at which donors pledged to Ethiopia over $1.2 billion for the
period up to mid-1994.
Conditions For The Bankl's Enlarged Program Of Support
41.   For FY93 and FY94, the Bank plan to provide an enlarged program of support totalling
about $800 million. This level of support is contingent on three factors, besides maintenance of
the macroeconomic framework supported by the SAP from the IMF and laid out in the PFP.
First, adequate progress in designing and carrying out the first phase of structural reform
measures.  Second, adequate implementation of both the restructured portfolio and new
operations. Third, main ning a reasonable political and security situion. If such a framework
i not in place, IDA lending could drop to a core program of not more than $150 million a year.
Such a program would focus on major social investments on which progress is possible without
need for a comprehensive policy reform.
Bank Support After The Transitional Period
42.   Once the new elected Government assumes office, the Bank will revisit its strategy, level
of support, and program priorities. Assuming policy continuity ater the transitional period, the
Bank will continue to pursue the central goal of poverty reduction. This will be achieved by
expanding support for the adjustment process, further measures to stimulate producdon and
employment, additional efforts to expnd essential infrastructure, and by carrinyg out a human
resource developmen program. On policy reforms, attenion will focus on a second phase of
measures to build the confidence of private investors. This would include liberalizing and
diversifying the financial sector, firther reducing regulatory constraints, and restructuring and
privatizing state enteprises. To support production and employment, help will be given for
agricultural research and extension, expansion of the mral roads network, improvements to trunk
roads and urban and rural water supply, additional investments in transport, tapping Ethiopia's
hydroelectric potential, and improvements in telecommunication to support business expansion.
Building on the National Environmental Action Plan, the Bank will design a project for the
implementation of its major findings and priorities. For improving social services, the Bank will
take several initatives, building on the findings of the forthcoming human resources development
study. These will include improvements in the financing and delivery of basic health and
nutritional services, family planning, and primary education (including the participation of girls),
and support to the Government and regional administrations in efforts to restructure the provision
of social services.



- 14-
I. SRUCTURAL ADJUSTNT PROGRAM, 1993-94
A. Strategy
Objectives
43.   As descrbed in paras. 23 to 25, the TGE is engaged in a comprehesive progm  of
Structural reforms. This program aims to transform the  uments of economic management
and ras investment, particularly by the private sector. It also aims to reduce the size and scope
of the public sector, alow market signas the primary role in allocating resources in the economy,
mobilize a lager volume of domestic resources, and improve the quality of social services for
all Ethiopians, while improving access for the poor. In the first phase, the TOE will carry out
only the most urgent reforms to revive growth in the economy. The proposed First Strucural
Adjustment Credit will provide a resource tansfer to Ethiopia to support three groups of
measures: (a) to aid i impleme ithe macroeconomic stabilization framework descrdbed in the
PFP; (b) to address initdal constrais to iereased participation by the private sector in
employment creation; and (c) to help identify and design later phases of reform. By focusig on
these three areas, SAC I will create the conditions for stmWating a strong production response
in the Ethiopian economy, thereby generating the impulse for growth in employment and the
reduction of poverty.
Basic Considerations
44. 3Ethiopia's extreme poverty, massive rehabilitation and reconstruction needs, and
unsusnable macoeconomic imbalances make impiementation of its strucural reform program
exceptionally complex.  Moreover, its underdeveloped private sector institutions and
epreneurship are unable to compensate filly for the limied (ut high calibre) capacity of
public agencies to manage the dhange from a planned to a market economy. To complicate
mauers fiurher, a resolution of the political siuation will come only after the successfi
completion of general elections which, according to the Transitional Charter, should take place
by January 1994. Under such circmstunc, more thm usual care is needed in designing the
ambitious program of policy and insttional reforms idenified by the TGE in its econom..
policy statement of November 1991, and in the PFP.
45. SAC I wiUl cover a set of structural adjustment measures that conforms to five basic
considerations.  *st, the measures should support and be consistent with the macroeconomic
stabilization framework identified in the PFP, vital for the revival of growth. Second, the private
sector should participate more actively in the generaton of growth and employmenL Initially,
this would consist of a set of measures to improve the enabling environment, including increasi
the availability of foreign exchange for its operation and expansion. Foreign exchange
availability will be especially helpful for agriculture, where reforms have proceeded rapidly but
shortages of inputs and some institutional bottlenecks continue to hamper production and sales
(both domestic and foreign). As most of Ethiopia's poor live in rural areas, actions in the
agriculture sector wiUl have both a direct and indirect effect on reducing poverty. Third, the
timing and scope of reform measures should be tailored chiefly to the mandate and tenure of the
Transitional Government, to ensure the fill ownership and political feasibility of the program.
However, it should include elements that would favor continuity in the basic thrust of official



- 15 -
policies beyond the transitional period. Fourth, there is a need to focus on critical elements of
c rapy and knowledge building to help desig  and implement later, and possibly more
"difficult', pbases of the structual adjustment program. Finally, there will be some losers from
this first phase of reform, chiefly in unofitable parastals exposed to market competition and
hard budget constrain. There is a need even at thbis early stage to ensure that an adequate safety
net exists to provide support for affected public sector employees.
46.   SAC I contains mnay up-front actions, some of which have been taken already since
agreement on a PFP was reached in September 1992. Structural measures that, to be effective,
would require improved macroeconomic conditions, complex preparation, or which fall outside
the mandate of the TGE, wil be crred out at a later stage of the adjustment program. Such
measures include, for example, the major part of civil service reform, public enterprise
restructing and privadzation, land policy and financi  sector development. However, as
identified below, some initial and preparatory measures in each of these areas will be carried out
during the SAC I implementation period. In addition, a set of actions to be taken by early-to-nid
1994 (hat is, before release of the Second Tranche) are included in the program. Although they
are integral component of the first phase of the reform effort, additional time is required far
their Implementtio. These conditions are also itended to mainn policy continuity and to
avoid a possible hiaus in the flow of etnal resources while the elected Government assumes
office. Morewver, while monitoring implementation of the PFP and thie SAP will provide IDA
and the IMF with periodic assessments of the maceconomic situation, the Second Tranche
conditions will offer additional checkpoints to evaluate the implementation of struchtral reforms.
47.   The imortance of agricultural growth in the overall strategy is undeniable. The potental
exist for raising productvity on existing lands, also for opening new lands for development.
The need to stem resource degradation is also apparent. Finally, many opportnities for the
diversification of agricultural products have been identified already. More than elsewhere in the
eonomy, raising growth in agricultre wUi have the quickest payoff for labor absorption, poverty
reduedon and foreign exchange enings. To achieve this, there is need for better incenive,
security of landholding and competition policies, for investments in supportive infastructure, and
for easy access by the private sector to production inputs. The TGE has deepened some price
and market liberalization measures iniiated by the previous Government in 1990. This is seen,
for example, in the liberalization of grain marketing, the abolition of mandatory grain delivery
quotas, the legal guarantee of peasnt' land use rights, and in the freedom to set up large private
commercial faums and use hired farm labor. The issue of property rights in land is under
considerable debate; however, it is not expected to be resolved during the transitional period.
Instead, SAC I will support faster growth in agriculture through three sets of measures: providing
the private sector access to foreign exchange for imports; completion of market liberalization so
farmers' incentives do not get squeezed by inefficient parastatal intermediaries; and maintenance
of a competitive exchange rate to stimulate agricultural exports.
B. Key kssues And Actions
48.   The key issues to be addressed under SAC I are discussed below, with a description of
the specific actions that will be carried out. Ihese are reflected in the reform program policy
matrix attached to the TGE's Letter of Development Policy, shown as Annex II. They fall into



- 16-
ree areas: macroecnomic stabilization, support for the private sector, and groundwork for the
next phase of adjustment.
Maereeconomlc Stabilization
49.   The size and nature of macroeconomic imbalanc in Ethiopia were described earlier
(paras. 18-22). The second-year review of the PFP for 1992/93 to 1994/95 will be completed
by end-June 1993.  Based on a preliminary evaluation, the TGE's performance on
macroeconomic stabilization has been exremely good. Tbis is true especially for fiscal control
and reductions in the rate of inflation, where targets have been met or exceeded. As the SAC
I measures are fully consistent with the PFP, the current success on the stabilization front may
be attributed pardy to early intiatives in carrying out this reform program. The main actions
under SAC I in support of macroeconomic stabilization are: (a) correction of distortions In key
prices; and (b) strucural improvements in the fiscal position.
50.   (a) Distortions In Key Prices. Rigid prices, with their attendant adverse effects on
resource mobilization and allocation, have been an unfortnate feature of the Ethiopian economy
in the past. For example, since February 1973 the Birr was peged to the US Dollar at a rate
of 2.07. However, the real exchange rate has flucuated, reflecting movements in the Dollar and
in relative prices between Ethiopia and its trading partners. In real terms the Birr appreciated
by 83 percent untRi mid-1985, depreciated by 39 percent between mid-1985 and mid-1988, and
aeciated again by more than 10 percent between mid-1988 and mid-1991. The slow growth
of tradeable goods production, especially exports, and the deterioration in the structural trade
balance may be attributed pardy to the distorting effects of the real exchange rate. Moreover,
until recendy, a significat part of Ethiopia's traditional exports was sold abroad tough llegal
channels, where producers' earnings reflected the higher paralel market exchange rate.
51.   Simily, efficiency in resource allocation has been impaired through distrtions in other
key prices. The controlled interest rates for savings, which ranged between 1 and 7.5 percent
per year, were mosty negative in real terms after 1986. Lending rates, which ranged between
2.5 and 10 percent, were also negative in real terms for most classes of borrowers. Moreover,
differential rates and other restrictions applied to different classes of borrowers (with strong
discrimination against the private sector), thus segmenting the credit mark"t. Che price of labor
services was also relatively inflexible. In the public sector, wages for thos% 1 the lower brackets
were adjusted either annuly or every two years. For senior personnel, they were either ftozen
for long periods or a general maximum was specified. All employment was channelled through
labor exchanges or though intra-Government transfers of personnel. Reguatory controls
severely impair  labor mobility. As described in previous Bank reports, cumulatively the
structure of prices, wages, interest rates and the exchange rate resulted in a strong anti-export
bias, promoted an underground economy, misallocated financial savings, and led to serious factor
market rigidities, therefore lowering aggregate efficiency in the economy.
52. The SAC I program includes several measures to correct distortions in the price of
foreign exchange, financial capital, and labor. Ihe TGE has ompIeted the following measures:
(1) A dvuation of the curreacy from Birr 2.07 go 5 per US Dollar, or 58.6 rcent in
Dllar tm.



- 17 -
(ii) Upward ajustm  in dps and Iaon  tet And the eliminatio of distinctsqx
kniS=aWubU ta =Lbtwem. As of October 1992, savings depst rates
have been raised from 2 to 6 percent per year to 10 percent, while time deposit rates
have rin fom 1 to 7.5 perce  a year to 10.5 to 1I percent. Although there are some
differences in borrowing rates by line of economic activity, loans for productive purposes
and trade in agricultural inputs range between 11 and 15 percent per year. Given the
TOE's success in lowering the inflation rate to single digits, the current structure of
interest rates offers strong real incentives for increased deposit mobilizaion and improved
efficiency in the use of credit.
(iii) Public SeI=  salary crases of 5 to 110 percent. to imro-ve real wage incentves.
The increases in public sector wages, which affected nearly 210,000 employees at an
estimated total cost of Birr 127.3 million (or 4 percent of budgeted current expenditures
for 1992/93), partially compes  for increases in the cost of living and narrow the wage
differential between the public and private sectrs.
(iv) Reovg of restrions a th  myent of labor. The TOE  .3act a new Labor
Code in Jamnary 1993 (Proclamation No. 42/1993). Ihe Code provides employers with
adequate flexibility in the use of labor while providing workers with the protection of
adequate notice of layoffs and due process procedures. The latter are transparent, and
their costs predictable. Wage determination is largely free of government interventon.
Gender-based provisions are designed in a manner tbat should not discourage the
employment of women. In general, the new Code will allow Ethiopia's labor costs to
be modest, making it very competitive within Africa.
53.   The following additional actions are proposed under SAC I:
i.)  anemeu   Qf the exager           restore pa  maintan   opis exten
Cinm i       mgan      minin   smu ing.
(H) OterlY reviews n a  adjusments of deposit and Ian rates to maintin them at
psrea levgls.
54.   (b) Structural imravements l[n Tle Fical Positio. A major objective of the TGE's
economic reform program is to shift the boundary between public and private spheres of
economic activity, markedly in favor of the later. This is to be achieved, in the first instance,
through a refousing of public expenditures, and then through ihe introducdon of appropriate
competition and divestiture policies. Due to their complexity, most of the latter will be
undertaken once the basic policy and insfitutional preconditions exist.
55.   In the short-run, however, te public sector's fiscal role requires examination, not only
for balance, but also for the effectiveness and efficiency of expenditures in reactivating growth.
As noted in para. 20, Ethiopia's large resource needs imply that the fiscal deficit wil rise before
it falls. How should this reduction occur over the long tetm, given the choice between
emphasizing an increased revenue effort and a lower level of expenditures? Sharp cuts in military
spending and a low implementaton rate of the capital budget have already dropped government
expenditures from a peak of 46.5 percent of GDP in 1989/90 to 28.5 percent of GDP in 1991/92.
In the 1992/93 Budget, secuty-related current expenditures were cut to about 27 percent of the



- 18-
total, from about 59 percent In 1989/90. Nevertheless, to allow for increased public investment
in economic and socia infastructure, there is need for a major effort to curial budgetary
subsidies and contaln the wage biUl, to which the TOE is committed. A hard budget constraint
has been Imposed on all parastatals, under which their operational losses will no longer be
supported from the Budget. Although selecive equity and capital contnbutions may be given,
no supplemental Budget allocations will be made, cross arrears among parastatas and with
govenment departments will be eliminated, and no government guarantees will be provided for
their domesdc borrowing. A thorough review of the civil service will be necessary to improve
performance and contain the wage bill. In addition, financial management within the core
government agencies needs to be strengthened-including thq; budgeting and accounting of donors
fiuds and the resulting counterpart-and the productivity of public expenditure raised.
56. Restoring revenue collections, which have fallen from 31.4 percent of GDP in 1989/90
to a projected 19.9 percent of GDP in 1992/93, is an equally important consideration for the
near-term. A revenue effort equivalemn to 21-22 percent of GDP is considered within reach for
the PFP period. Starting in 1974, the tax (and customs) system was progressively adapted to a
centrally planned economy. It requires basic structura changes if revenue is nt to be at risk in
the new economic environment and, in particular, if appropriate incentives are to be given to the
private sector. A broader range of economic transactions will be conducted by private sector
entiies, as opposed to public agencies. Therefore, the relatve balance between tax and non-tax
revenues as a source of public sector financing will need to change. Besides broadening the base,
punitive and disincetive effects from the rate stmcture need to be eliminated. Otherwise, as
centralized controls on the economy are dismantled progressively, tax evasion will become
rampant The entire range of revenue instruments reqiures a fmdmental reappraisal. The
objective of reforms would be to ensure adequate revenue buoyancy through an improved rate
stucure and broader tax base, conversion of the tax regime to be compatible with a market-based
incentive regime, and improvements in collections through building better institutional capacities
in the core revenue agencies. In addition, the coordination of tax rate and base changes with
exchange rate and trade reforms, and widi the regional devolution of fiscal responsibilities, are
challenging high-priority tasks.
57.   Under SAC I, the TOE has completed several actions in this area:
(i) Personal income taxes were revised in October 1992 to corMect ta thresolds for
inflation, reduce the number of tax bracket frm 17 to 10. and lowe the hi"es
margnal tax rate frm  85 percent go 50 perce
(ii) Except coffee. which contributes 85 percent of export taxes or one percent of to
tax revenues, all export taxes have been eliminated. In addition, at the time of the
devaluation of the Birr in October 1992, the five percent import levy, used in the past
to subsidize exports, was also abolished.
(il) All exprt subsidies were ended after the devaluation.
(iv) Procedures ha  been pu in place for the centlized budging ad accouint of
e       ants and cunterart funds. In the past, many exte   donors placed grant
funds with individual Ministries. Accounting and control of such finds, and the resulting
counterpart has proved to be difficult, and expenditures In some cases did not fully reflect



- 19 -
national priorities. The changes introduced by the authorities are expected to strengthen
budgety processes as well as to improve the effectiveness of expenditures out of
extenal grants.
(v) To the exten pOs. l  tal gram=  are nOW channeled through the Bude
rfth  than trough individual Ministry accounts. as in the ast. However, even those
which continue to go through Individual accounts (refleci  prior agreements with
external donors) are accounted for in the government budget, and audited in the same
manner as the budgetary acount,
(vi) Tether with IDA. a    ic expenditure review for the cental and regional
Govm     s was iiated in Apl 1993. The review will be conducted in two phases,
the first of which assesses the TGE's strategies in key economic and social sectors and
examines the broad alocations in the forthcoming Budget for 1993/94. Based on more
comprehensive analysis, the second phase of the public expenditure review, expecte to
involve several externa donors, will have broader coverage (see para. 58-iii below).
(vii) AUreement a b    reahed that. bgi      in 199I/94, rental income will be
included in the dnt  of im    fr    oses. ITis is required to broaden the
revenue base, especially as the TGE proposes to transfer state-owned housing to the
private sector, which will activate the property market. Ind-ivduals as well as business
enteprises    be liable for such taxes at a rate lower than the marginal personal income
tax rate, after a 'tax holiday' period of three or five years, depending on the size of the
Property.
(*viii) TraW=n, admsld  kdDinishave bRDeen inidiatefd in thie nlad Ro eveu
and theQcustoms UaitmU =. Besides the TOE's own initiatives since the begining of
1992, IMF assistance has been sought to introduce a program of capacity-building that
includes designing training courses, preparing work manuals, and establishing units for
monitoring tax fraud and conducting criminal investigations. A study recommending
chages in the orgaizationa structure of both departments was submitted recendy to the
Council of Ministers for approval.
58.   To promote struc    improvement in the fiscal position and raise the efficiency and
effectiveness of public expendi, the TOE will carry out the following actions before Second
Tiche Re :
Oi By December 1993 it will comlete a review of the civil servic. This would include
civil service cemuses, and an examination of civil service functions and wage and
persomnel policies. It is intended to assess the quality of staff, identify redundancies and
the need for retenchment, and to design appropriate structures to strengthen regional
administration. The ultimate objective of the review is to assist in designing and
supporting a structure in which most eivil service fkmctions and personnel devolve to the
regions.
(ii) On revenues. corrate and nn-corporate grofits taxes wil be djuste. They wiUl
be lowered to a rate below the personal income tax rate. This would conform to the
widespread international practice of broadening the base while lowering rates so as not



-20-
to unduly distort Incentives. The new tax rate would assist Ethiopian firms in becoming
more competitive with fim  in neighboring countries. To broaden the base, capital gains
would be included. The TGE will unify the marginal rates on corporae and non-
corporate businesses, and the number of tax brackets for non-corporate profits tax will
be reduced. Corporate taxes are now levied at a flat 50 percent rate. The last revision
of the non-corporate profits tax occurred in 1989/90, when they were lowered from 89
percent to 59 percent. However, the current rate is still considered high, and revisions
will be based on the results of a study that is underway. In addition, the coverae of
sale,s taxes wll be increased by including mQoxble services-all consultancy services.
advrznaW . and inmet.
(iii) hM uli exenditure review will be omleted. Based on the review. a action
plan will he agreed with IDA to implement its findings in the Budget of 1994/95 and
beyond, and to introduce a rolling public investent progra. Consequently, the review
will cover all non-defense budgetary spending by the central and regional governments,
it will review budgetary and related planning processes, and it will examine the role of
government spending in the economy, including the coordination of public and private
spending.
Support For The Private Sector
59.   Almost two decades of discrimination against the private sector have stifled its
development. Peace, combined with the TGE's progress in deregulating the economy, has
provided the private sector with increased opportnties. As dereguation proceeds, positive
measures are needed to enable it to take advantage of the new opportunities. For this too, there
is a vast agenda. SAC I will support the initial critical phase, which consists of actions in the
following areas: (a) increased availability of foreign exchange for use by the private sector; (b)
price decontrol and creation of competitive conditions; (c) improvenents in the trade regime; and
(d) reducing state ownership and operation of assets.
60.   IDA staff have provided for the TGE's consideration several recommendations to improve
the a      n   of investment reguations, including rn   at an appropriate dme of
the recently approved investment code (May 1992). The code is insufficiently clear in some
respects and contains fiscal and other incentives that have not proved very successful in other
countries. It is unlikely that the code will constrain domestic investment in the near fiture, if it
is inrpreted liberally. However, over the medium term, potential barriers to the enty of large
fims and foreign investors, and the over-reguation of investment, will need to be addressed.
Concurrently, the TGE will need to address problems associated with the repatriation of
dividends, a  exernal payments for royalies and technological services. IDA has recommended
that the code be reviewed in the light of experience, and either eliminated or modified to redress
the potential problem of excessive bureaucratic discretion in its application.
61.   (a) Eorng exchange f  the rivt se . Within Ethiopia's acute global shortage of
foreign exchange, the private sector has been especially deprived. In the past, because of
limitatiens on private investment and production, most fanaiah  (own foreign exchange)
imports of the private sector consisted of durable consumer goods (about 10 percent of total
merchandise imports). Increased private ecowmic activity is bound to raise foreign exchange
needs as well as to change the structure of private sector imports. In partial response to such



-21 -
demands, siace October 1992 the TOE has released more than BlrT 205 million ($41 million) for
private sector imports. Also, nearly Birr 615 mfllion ($123 million) is earmarked for private
sector imports during the 30-month implemeion period of the ERRP. The revival of growth
in agriculture, critical for both food security and the sector's direct and indire effect on poverty,
depends on the availability of inputs and equipme, and on the construction or rehabilitation of
on-fam investment. In addition, private participation in manufactring and services will raise
the demand for inputs and new imvestment, much of it consisting of imports. Therefore,
providing the private sector with efficient access to foreign exchange for such purchases is a
central feature of SAC 1, and will be an important instrument for rapidly transforming the
productive structure of the Ethiopian economy. In addition, foreign exchange should be priced
to reflect market demand. Despite the recent devaluation of the Birr by 58.6 percent in Dollar
terms, the parallel market rate for the Dollar has averaged at least 30-35 percent higher since
October 1992. High tariffs, combined with severe foreign exchange controls, imply that the
official rate of the Birr continues to be overvalued. Once market-based pricing of foreign
exchange is itroduced, allocative efficiency requires that this rate be applied broadly to a wide
range of transactions. Thus, continued favorable treatment of public enterprises, which will need
evenally wo compete on an equal footing with the private sector, also would need to be ended.
62.   Under SAC I, the TGE announced   fn eane aucti, effective May 1, 1993.
The auction will be conducted openly every two weeks by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE),
i the presence of prospective bidders. Except for imports of pharmaceuticals, fertlizers and
petroleum, official contributionsto international organizations, and official debt servicepayments,
foreign exchange from the NBE will be provided at the auction rate. Initialy, access to foreign
exchange through this system will be limted principally to imports regulated by a negative list.
The composition of this list is intended to restrict non-productve use of the county's scarce
official foreign exchange resources, but also to protect some categories of domestic manufacture.
The negative list will be modified before Second Tranche Release to liberalize imports further.
Snefically.. at kast the fbllowing items will be removed from the list: items number 245
(uelwood. wood charcoal): 246 (wood in the rough): 247 (other wood in the rough): 248 (wood
shaned or simuljy worked): 634 (veeer. plywoo boards) 635 (wood manufactures. n.e.s.):
663 (mineral manuftures n.e.s.): 693 (wire products and fencing gills'): 699 (Wanufatures af
metal): and 893 (articles of Wlascs). The fanc ya&   system of financing imports will continue
to operae. A tetable for unification of the official and auction rAtes of exchange was agreed
during preparation of the PFP.
63.   (b) Price decontrol and competitive conditions. Price controls have existed for a long
time in Ethiopia. The output prices of industrial parsstatals, deemined chiefly from a 'cost-
plus fonmda, remain subject to control at the ex-factory level, while retail outlets operate at free
market prices. Coneqeny, in an economy chacized by shortages, large profits can be
made by distributors, while firm-level production disinentives and inefficiencies could persist.
Many manuactured goods (for example, pharmaceuticals, building materials) and most state
services-including housing, utilities-are supplied below market prices. There are marked
weaknesses in the quality of goods and services and the product market ualy has been
char ized by conditions of excess demand, a legacy of the centrally contolled economy.
64.   Usually, there is only one parastatal supplier of services and industial products. The
Government has acted to remove public enterprise monopolies in freight transport and has
liberalized road freigir tariffs. This is a strongly positive measre given the critical role of road



-22-
trasport in Ethiopia. However, several parastatals have dominated large segments of commercial
activity, which reduced private entry and was also instrumeal in raising the costs of distribution.
The down-sizing or ending of state involvement in the distributive trades is desirable, and will
be phased. Ihe abolition of monopoly power in the produedon of tradeable goods is especiWly
desirable, sad a frt step In this direction has been taken through passage of the investment
regulations in 1992. Under SAC I, the TOE has completed the following action: frzmal
elimsin   of the monopoly nower of Agricultr Marketing Corporation. ad sbseent
difimaning of thie Domestic ]Distribution CoxpoSaion and thie hnpo=tE=rt_CXrain
65.   The TGE has moved cautiously in the area of price decontrol, seeking to avoid the large
"price spikes and inflationary experience of other economies Involved in the tramition from
centra planning to markets. Recognizing the importance of agriculture, the TGE continued with
the price liberaizadon measures introduced by the previous Government in 1990 and 1991.
Many agricultural products and privately-imported goods are in practice sold at decontrolled
prices. However, it has condnued to provide direct ex-factory price gaidelines to industri
parastatals. Under SAC I the TGE has decotolled all manufactured product prices. except nine
tradeable goods produced by paras -scement corrunated roofln- materials, mails.
reinforcement bar for construction, four tyes of textIelamns (khaki. nylon, traditionAal
kbujaditL cotton yarn. and sugar. Directives have been issued to the managers of all parastatals
informing them of the decontrol, also instructing them to assume fiJl autonomy in pricesetting.
These goods will continue to be made available at fixed prices through public retail distribution
channels. The ex-ficty prices of all nine products will be adjusted to import parities plus an
mount up to the prevailing (and declining, see paragraph 72) import duty. Because of this
measure, and despite the continued price control of three critical imported goods-petroleum,
fertilizer and phmaceuticas-Ethiopia has moved further in the area of price liberalization thn
most of its neighboring countries. Combined with gradual liberaization of the trade regime, it
is expected that increased competitive pressures will raise efficiency in the economy.
66.   Coffee plays a significant role in the Etiopian economy. Nearly 10 million people
direcdy and indirectly depend on coffee cultivation and processing for a living. It has the
potential to contribute more than half of Ethiopia's export earnings in the next three years. The
current structure of the coffee sector may not, however, be conducive to exploiting this potenal
fully, given strong govermment involvement in the domestic and export marketing chain, as well
as in coffee processing. The Ethiopian Coffee Marketing Corporation-a parastatal-processes
more than half the sun-dried coffee in Ethiopia, while service cooperatives process an additional
40 percent. Not only does the private sector, therefore, have only a 10 percent share of
processing, it is restricted to a 20 percent share of exports. On the basis of past assessments
conducted by IDA, farmgate prices as well as export earnings may have been affected adversely
by such restictions. The TGE intends to decontrol the coffee sector in stages. Towards this
end, by Second Tranche Release a study for the phased liberalization of the coffee sector will be
conmleted. Is findings will be reviewed jointly with IDA. and an action plan will be agreed with
MDA t implement its recoendtions.
67.   (c) Trade reform: Trade policy in Ethiopia has been carried ou through foreig
exchange controls, tariffs and discriminatory domestic taxes on imports, quantitative restricions
(QRs) operaing through a long negative list and administered through trade licensing, and export
prohibitions, taxes and subsidies. This system, with the associated indirect tax regime, results
in variable and non-transparent protection, low revenue buoyancy, an anti-eport bias, and



-23 -
difficult administration. Foreign exchange controls restrict the level of imports, allowing an
overvaluatlon of the real exchange rate compared to a more liberal import stance.
68.   Ethiopia's import regime is complex, subject to abuse, and its different elements poorly
coordinated. Taxes and fees on intnational trade are administered in a variety of forms-import
duties, sales taxes, excise taxes, import liceme fees, and other Custom's charges. The protection
ghven to domestic economic activities through the tariff and indirect tax structure is high, and
varies through time and across activities. For many sectors, although effective protection
estmates are unavailable, nominal protection levels are clearly high because import duties range
from zero to as much as 230 percent. There are 25 ad val m duty categories, rising in groups
of 5, 10, 1S or 20 percentage points. There are also specific duties on some 159 product groups.
In addition, sales taxes on imports are 12 percentage points higher than on domestic production
(24 percent compared to 12 percent). This gives domestic producers additional protection.
Specia sales taxes on imports (which are similar to excise taxes) are also 12 percentage points
higher than on domestic production, except petroleum products. There is a wide range of rates-
with domestic production paying between zero and 587 percent-and a proliferation of taxes
within the same product grouping.
69.   The recent devaluation of the Birr increased the local currency price of imports by 142
percet, thus raising nominal protection levels further. There is need to offset this increase while
simplifyig the application of import and idrect taes, makg their mcidence more unform,
and coordiatng the different taxes more rationally. An appropriately-valued exchange rate is
a critical instument in this regard, and would allow for a lower average nominal tariff for the
same level of protectio   Similarly, a lower rate structure combined with improved revenue
administratin could lower the incidence of smuggling, which disprotects several domestic
producers. Further, despite a statutory average nominal tariff rate of 34.4 percent and high
indirect taxes of 24 percent, the effective rate of all levies on imports amounts to only 20 percent,
a sign of the massive tax base erosion and potental for variable nominal protection built into the
system. Protection policy can be improved by reducing the many import duty exemptions given
to certain classes of importers, also the 588 product groups that have been "zero-rated" for
import duty purposes. In addition, there are several inconsistencies in the duty and indirect tax
structures that need to be resolved. For example, import duties are applied to the c.i.f value of
imports plus one percent. Sales taxes on imports are levied on the same value, and MQ on the
duty inclusive value. This reduces the nominal protection given to domestic producers (by the
product of the sales tax and duty rates). Finally, the easier availability of foreign exchange for
prstatal imports, and the itmite  injection of foreign exchange from the central bank for
private sector imports, results in differentdal access to rents for importers of finished goods, and
differential levels of protection for users of imported inputs.
70. Ethiopia's export potenttal remains largely unrealized. Merchandise exports consist
almostenirely of coffee (68 percet of the total in 1989/90), hides and skins (14 percent), pulses
(2 percent) and gold (2 percent), sold mainly in the European market. It is estimated that by
1992, the volume of such exports had fallen to roughly half the level achieved in 1988 and 1989.
Domestic supply consraint and incentives were largely to blame, many of which are beginning
to be taced. For the future, on present price projections and expectations of a return to just
below the 1988 and 1989 volumes, the value of exports of these traditional products may be
expected to rise by nealy 30 percent annually until 1994/95. This would imply a volume
increase of nealy 25 percent per year, reflecting the reactivation of domestic production capacity.



- 24 -
After that, and once earlier levels of production are reached, increases in traditional exports are
epected to revert to lower growth rates (4-S percent per year in real terms).
71.   For the medium- and long-term, a structural improvement in Ethiopia!s external sector
will require higher growth and a diversification of foreign exchange earnings. Manufactured
exports are virtually non-existent, despite Ethiopia's competitive advantage of low wage rates,
large labor force, and trade quota fiee sus. Areas with good export potent  include leather
and leather products, processed food, and texties and garmen. However, manufacturers face
a domestic policy environment biased against exports, including inadequate exchange ra
incentives, high tariffs on imported inputs, and cumbersome government regulations governing
investment, production and port clearance. There is negligible relief given to export enterprises
to offset the high level of protection offered import-competing industrial enterprises. The existing
inport duty drawback system has not provided exporters with adequate access to imported inputs
at international prices, and requires modifications to enhance its effectiveness. Finally, foreign
investment in export industries-found critical in providing capital, technology and market access
for nascent developing country exporters elsewhere-was restricted in the past by the regulatory
framework.
72.   The TGE has recognized there is a clear need for reform of the trade regime, and for
close coordination with tax ard exchange rate reforms. Conversion of the tax system to make
It compatible with a market economy, protection of the revenue base, transparency and greater
uiformity in protection, reduction of anti-export bias, and simplification of trade revenue
administrtion are all on the agenda for reform during the PFP period. The following actions
have been agreed under SAC I, to be implemented through the government budget for 1993194,
due to become effective on July 7, 1993:
,3) Classification of iMioted items under the Harmonized System.
fi) Conversion of all specific import duties into ad valorem rates.
CMii) Unification of the sales tax on imports and the general sales tax at 12 percent.
(iv) &plication of a maximum duty rate of 80 percent reduction in the number of zero-
tariff uroduct groups from 588 to 77. and reductiorn in the number of ad valorem duty
brackets from 25 to 10.
(v) Review and reduction in the number of classes of importers who receive import duty
exemptions shifting. where possible. as many remaining imports i the "zerq rated
sdule (Schedule 1).
(vi) Streamlininj and broadening me scope of the impot duty drawback system for
=fs to accornmodate dabcsof sales taxes piaid on domestic pautcases of !rMut
by  rter  and to speed Dayments.
(vii) Indicating in the Letter of Development Policy a plan for lartely reducing the level
and dispersion of imort duties over an agreed time horizon.



-25 -
(viii) Based on a recentyWcompleted review. reducing license fees (incluina the anual
repewal fee) on coffee exporters. nermittinif prvate entry into the marketing and exor
of aum arabic (with the intntion of eventualy allowing private production once
^Dgiatgtw safe ga i  laned elimnad fie threquirement that
traders be members of a Chamber ogf Commerce.
73.   The tariff and indirec tax reforms proposed by the TGE will meet the objectve of
introducing greater aministrative and economic effciency while preserving the Government's
fiscl position. A conservative estimate of the net effect of the proposed changes, based on the
current (Birr 5 = $1) exchange rate and the lower levels of imports of 1990/91 and 1991/92,
shows that it would be strongly positive. During the first phase of structural adjustment, the
tradeff between reenue protection and lower levels of protection has been resolved in favor
of the former. It is expc  that later phases of the reform program will reduce protection in
phases, drawing on a comprehensive review of productive efficiency and existing levels of
effective protection in the Ethiopian economy.
74.   (d) Reduc  state ownprshig of assets. In 1989, it was estimated there were 7,684
private enterprises in Ethiopia, of which only 7 percent employed 10 or more works, and less
an one percent employed 50 or more workers. The average fixed capital of enterprises was
Birr 30,000. Together, they contributed an estimated 2.4 percent of GDP, largely in paper and
prtng, metal working, and chemical (rubber, soap, and plastic), leather and wood products.
Although their number may have increased since then, the size distribution has been skewed
fiurer in the direction of small enterprises. By contrast, there were 203 state enterprises,
employing on average more ta 400 workers, with an average fixed capital of Birr S million,
which contnbuted 6.6 percent of GDP. Of this mmaber, 162 firms fell under the Ministry of
Industry, while 41 oprated under the supervision of other Mmities-for example, State Farms
Development, Construction, Energy. In addition, there were many producer cooperatives.
Public enterprises participated in, and were usually monopoly suppliers for, every segment of the
market for commercial goods and services, beyond the monopoly they enjoyed in the provision
of utilities, transport, and infastucture.
75.   The debiitating effect of state ownership of productive assets in Ethiopia has been
documented extensively. The state enterprises were closely controlled and protected from
competition, both in the manufactre and sale of goods and in access to inputs. Ihe resulting
rigidities and inefficiencies played a significant role in the poor performance of the economy.
Although most visible in the m  ri  sector, where nearly all of value added can be
attributed to 15 public industri enterprises, the results have been poorest in agriculture. The
absence of either ownership or user rights in smallholder agriculture reduced incentives for
private investment in land. Also, massive resources were poured Into state farms, but with
extremely poor rates of retur. Lately, state-owned industrial enterprises have shown levels of
capacity utilizaton as low as 25 percent, due mainy to shortages of raw materis, spare parts
and imported inputs. Losses have been mounting at many firms and, although the fnancial
performance of several state-owned industrial and service monopolies has been good, the
economic returns often have been low or negative (for example, in shoes, textiles, and
beverages).
76.   New legislation governing public enterprises was enacted in 1992 (Proclamation No.
25/1992). It is expet  that this will enable the authorities to phase-in increased autonomy for



- 26 -
such firms. By complementing other initiatives-exposing these firms to greater competition,
subject  them to hard-budget constraints, and down-sizing them as necessary-the eavironment
for rasn the efficiency of public enterprise is being established gradually in Ethiopia. Some
liqions and restru s have also occurred. Several state farms have been dissolved.
Further, two major paatatals-Building Construction Authority and Maritime Transport
Authority-were closed, resulting in the retrenchment of 16,600 employees. State ownership of
the national housing stock, retail outlets, travel and tourism is also widespread, if not complete.
The early divestiture of such assets is feasible, both from the point of view of social acceptability
and relative ease of implemention. However, the main public enterprise restructring and
divestiture actions will occur during the next phase of structural adjustment, afe the principles
and practice of commercial opertion of state enterprses have been established moreffirmly,
financial markets are stronger, and an adequate legal and regulatory framework for competition
is in place.
77.    The following actions have been taken under SAC I:
(1) Classification of all public   ds     a irdn tQ their ulime ownship status.
This was completed in February 1993. As in the investment code enacted in May 1992,
several important areas of economic activity have been retained in the public sector.
However, a major part of the public enterprises operting in other lines of activity will
be divested. Over the short term, that is in the next 24 months, the mumber to be
divested in the agriculture sector is 89. The Ic iger term plan is to divest 16 additional
entaprises, and to retain 4 under government control. In the industrial sector, 50 firms
are to be divested fully in the short term, while an addional 23 will be divested
partially, some in the short term, while others within three years. Over a longer period,
the divestiture of an additional industaW 28 firms has been planned. Most of the firms
in this latter category are large monopolies, and their divestitre is expected to be
complex and effective only if an adequate competition framework is in place.
(-i) Development ad issue of directives to all government agencies on a policy and
.mehaism for the retrenchment of ublic sector eployees. Changes in the functions
of the public sector, the liquidation and divestiture of public enterprises, and their
exposure to market competition and commercial operation can be expected to result in
the retrenchment of employees. In addition to the 16,600 employees mentioned above,
about 3,600 employees in industrial corporations, other parastals, government
departments and the judiciary have also been dismissed. To date, compensation has
largely followed existig regulations, specifically the rcently enacted Labour Law and
the Pensions Law, but has also taken account of collective agreements, which take
precedence. While payments have been prompt, variations in the application of the laws
were reported in the perod before the new Labor Code was promulgated. Sometimes,
retrenchmen packages have been augmented by employment promotion and lending
schemes. The need for uniform and transparent policies has been recognized through the
issue of the new directive, and the Governmn  intends to protect "due process* in
retrenchment decisions in addition to providing at least the minimum severance payments
required by law.
78.   Two additional actions have been proposed by the TGE:



-27 -
(1) By Decebr 1293 it wHI comIplete a study and issue a Government decision for the
sale of state-wne buses to the private stor. A study will be conducted initially to
ideiy from among the approximately 530,000 units owned by the Government those
hat were constructed before 1974, those buit by *he Housing Agency since 1974, those
that belong to the municipalities, and privat houses that were appropriated by the
previous Government. Based on this, a policy decision will be made, and a phased
program introduced for their sale. A task force is currently working on valuation issues,
but it is envisaged that technical assistance from IDA or other sources will be required
to complete the work in a timely fashion.
(ii) Be1fre Second Tranche Release it will pt Mg for sale throgh a public amnouncement
all retal shops and at least 29 hotels and restants it owns.
Gromdwork For Next Phase of Adjustment
79.   The advsability of sequencing strucur adjustments carefilly has been stressed during
the preparation of SAC I. An effort has been made to fous on measures to reach the most
importan economic goals, and to ensure that the means to execute structural reforms exist. Up-
front delivery of actions is intended to ensure the success of the program carried out during the
transitional period and immediately after it, but also to provide the latitude to concentrate scarce
administrtive resources on preparing for a deepening of the adjustment process.
80. Later phases of adjustment will require a broader knowledge base and greate technical
sophisicaton.  Moreover, the content of the program is expected to change.  While
maroeconomic stabDization efforts wIll contiue in the contex of PFP agreements, increased
emphasis will need to be given to issues of aliocative and productive efficiency. This has several
implications. First, efficieacy in the alocton of resources will be achieved by building
competitive markets, and by closer integration with the inteional economy.  Second,
ieaing the level of output generated by any given level of inputs will be achieved by a marked
sif in the boundary between public and private production, and by reducing or eliminating
cosdy controls. Third, increased growth combined with an enlargement of the market economy
wil likely cause a strucua shift in the demand for skills in the economy, so human resource
policies will need to become more flexible and demand determined. Thus, the next phase of
reforms is licely to contain actons on competiton, privaizauon, trade development, financial
sector reform, market-responsive education and training policies, and reducing inefficient controls
and disincetives in the productive sectors.
81.   To ensure that adequate technical analysis and implementation capacity underpins later
phases of reforms, the TGE has proposed to carry out several studies ad capacity-building
actions under SAC I. Several studies are underway, and are being conducted independently by
tLe authorities. These include: competition policy, privatization and divestiture; civil service
reform; tariffs and efficiency; human resources strategy; and export promotion. Because of their
importance, the content and quality of these studies require careful review. The following new
sudies are also planmed: sector programming and aid coordination; statistical priorities; financial
sector strategy; and poverty monitoring. For capacity-building, in addition to the current and
proposed inidatives in revenue administration (para. 58), actions will focus on two main areas:
computerization of the core economic agencies and staical offices; and strengthening auditng
and accounting functions and training. It is expected that partial funding support for the studies



-28-
and capacity-bding measures will be provided by externa donors, chiefly UNDP. A
has been reached with IDA on terms of reference for hie studies and cpacity-buildine measures
m. THE PROPOSED CREDfT
A. Size And Expected Cofinandng
82.   The borrower is the Government of Ethiopia. Me proposed size of the Creiit is $250
million in quick-disbursing funds. The Credit amount is about 8 percent of the level of
merchamdise imports needed to support the projected growth rate of the economy during 1993/94
and 1994195. Representatives of several exneal donors participated in the appraisal of SAC I
during January-February 1993, and will cofinance direcdy or provide parallel financing: African
Development Bank, UNDP, Sweden, and Switzerland. In addition, the following donors bave
also indicated their intention to support the program through direct or parallel cofinancing:
Commission of European Communities, Denmark, Germany, The Netherlands, and the Unked
States. In total, the amount to be committed by other donors for cofmancing SAC I is estimated
currently at about $280 milion, to be disbursed during 1993/94 and 1994/95.
B. Disbursment
83.   The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches.  The first tranche of $150 million
equivalent would become available immediately upon effectiveness (July 1993). The second
tanche will be available for disbuement approximately twelve months later, following a
performance review by IDA. The Credit proceeds are intended exclusively to finance the foreign
exchange costs of Ethiopia's general imports. The local currency funds generated as a
countepart to the foreign exhange proceeds will be available for use in the TGE's budget.
84.   Since this is the first quick-disbursing Credit to Ethiopia, IDA staff have mssist  the TGE
in establishing appte disbursement procedures.  Tmis includes the simplification of
documentation requirements, which will consist of the final invoice, bill of ladWshipping
documents, and evidence of payment. To ease disbursements, at least two special accounts
(separately for IDA funds and those from cofinmciers) will be established in US Dollars at the
National Bank of Ethiopia, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. To facilitate procurement
and dibursement, an inial deposit of $30 million will be made in the special account for IDA
funds. Applications for replenishment of the account will be submitted monthly, or when
withdrawals reach onequarter of the amount advanced. Applications will be fully docmnented
with respect to payments against contracts of more than $500,000. Reimbursements for payments
against contracts below this threshold will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, with
the Minstry of Finance designated as the authorized signatory for the submission of withdrawal
applications to IDA. However, the National Bank of Ethiopia will be responsible for scutnizing
and retning all required import documentation, and for the preparation of summary sheets for
disbursements.



- 29 -
C. Procuremet
85.   The proposed Credt would finance 100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of general impots,
excluding luxuy goods, military equipmen, and environenaly hazardous products defined
under the Standad Inraional Trade Classification, imports bought under contracts of less than
$5,000 equivalent, and items finced by other sources. The last Country Procurement
Assessment Report was completed in 1985. I noted that the laws and decrees governing the
procurement procedures of Etwiopia were In broad conformity with the World Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. This was verified in April-May 1992 during preparation of the ERRP
opemion, and more recenty during the ppraisa of SAC I.
86.   A major component of SAC I is the establishment of an aucton to allocate foreign
exchage on as broad a basis as possible (para. 62). Staring May 1, 1993, the auction will be
the only source of official foreign exchange for the facing of all imports except fertilizers,
phmancuticals, and peroleum purchased by the Government. It is  pected, therefore, that
SAC I fimding will be used mosdy to finance the imports of critical inputs and capital goods by
the private sector and public enterprises.
87.   Imports above $1 millon would be procured according to simplified ICB. Public sector
procurement procedures are based largely upon competition, both open and limited. Few
instces of direct conract  exist; however, they are always undetaken on the basis of vendor
lists that are reviewed and updated reguarly. Accordingly, procedures used by the public sector
would be acceptable for all procurements below the ICB threshold. Private sector procuement
for amounts below $1 million will follow established commercial practies. Access to the foreign
exchange auction, through which such imports will be procured, requires the presentation of X
im  invoices fom a minimum of two sources, showing clearly a breakdown of f.o.b. and
freight costs. Trade verification mechanisms do not exist in Ethiopia. However, the TGE is
expected to conclude a contract with a trade vcrification frm shortly, and preoshipment inspection
procedures will be instituted before SAC I fumds are disbursed. Trade verification will apply to
all imports funded through SAC I and by direct cofinanciers.
88.   Retroactive finacing would be acceptable up to $50 million (20 percent of the Credit
amount) for eligible import payments made not more than 90 days before the signing of the
Credit. This will allow the Government to maintain an adequate flow of recrent imports during
the last quartr of 1992193. Financing of petroleum products will be limited to $25 million, and
will continue to be conducted according to IDA's abbreviated bidding procedures established for
procurement under the ERRP. The project management unit established for the ERRP wil assist
with procurement that involves advertsement, bidding, and bid evaluaion procedures. All other
procurement will be coordinated by the National Bank of Ethiopia, under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA.
D. Man        , Monitorig and Accounts
89. The Ministry of Finance will have responsibility for the overall management of the
reform progm  supported by SAC L A govemment-appointed SAC I coordinating group has
also been established. It is chaired by the Minister of Finance, and includes the Minister of
Planning and Economic Development, the Governor of the Natonal Bank of Ethiopia, several



- 30 -
Preidential advisors, and expert staff from the core economic Ministries. The coordiaing
group has worked closely with IDA and IM  staff in preaing this refbrm program, and will
continue to monitor its implemention. As there is a strong "learning-by-doing" element in the
implementation of the reform program, and given the large needs for studies and Insitutonal
support, MDA staff from headquatters as well as the Resident Mission will need to work closely
with the SAC I coordnatig group.
90.   The National Bank of Ethiopia will maintain records of all t actions under the Credit,
using sound accounting practices. Audits of all accouns, completed by auditors acceptable to
IDA and according to procedures agreed with IDA, will be submitted by the Ministry of Finance
no lawer tban si moths after the end of each fiscal year. Due to the massive disruptions of the
past two years, the number of overdue audits of IDA operations in Ethiopia bad reached
unacceptable levels. Technical staff from IDA are working with the TGE to deal with the
backlog as rapidly as possible, and a major part of the backlog had been cleared by end-May,
1993.
B. Coordination With IMF And Other Donors
91.   Effective donor coordination is an important goal of the Bank's assistance strateg in
Ehdopia. The TOE, IM  and Bank have worked closely in designing the refbrm program
descrbed in tlie PFP. In addition, macroecnomic checkpoints, proposals on fiscal measures,
and market-based mecms to allocate foreign exchange have been formulated joiny. At the
successful Consultatve Group meeting of November 1992, donors pledged over $1.2 biUlion in
assisace to Ethiopia, and have subsequendy discussed a broad range of collaboration to assist
in the development of specific sectors. As noted above, several exernal donors have strongly
endorsed the TGE's strucural reform program. Representatives of several donors participated
in the Appraisa. In addition to mobilizimg extemal understanding and support for the adjustment
process, the joint appisal has resulted in a harmonization of disbursement and procueent
procedures. In addition, close coordination with the broader community of donors through direct
contact with their headqu s pesomel as well as through the Bank's Resident Mission in
Ethopia has resiuted in an exceptional level of additional funding support for SAC I of about
$280 million. Thus IDA's financial contribution in support of the first phase of the TGE's
structural adjustment program is less than one-half of the total. Coordination with UNDP on the
studies and capacity-building components of the Credit will also ensure that the TGE is able to
monitor technical assistance activities more closely, within the comprehensive framework it has
developed with the former.
F. Conditionlity
92.   The Letter of Development Policy and attached policy matrix (Annex U) describe specific
measures that have been or will be taken during the initial phase of the SAC I program. During
the entire period of implementation of SAC I, the TGE will maintain (a) an appropriate
framework to promote stabilization; and (b) an appropriate exchange rate to restore Ethiopia's
exernal competitiveness and minimize smuggling.
93.   The following actions will be taken before December 31. 1993:



-31 -
(a)    The civil service reiew agreed in the PFP will be completed.
(b)   A study will be completed and Government decisions issued for a phased
program to sell govanment-owned houses to the private sector.
94.   The following actions will be completed before release of the Second Tranche:
(a)    On revemnes: (i) corporate and non-corporate profit tax rates will be adjusted to
have the same marginal rate of not more than the personal income tax rate, and
to broaden their basis to include at least capital gains; and (ii) the coverage of the
sales tax will be increased by Including all consultancy services, advertizing and
entertainment
(b)   The efficiency of public expenditures will be raised by (i) implementing in the
governmen budget of 1994/95 the recommendations of the public expenditure
rview agreed with IDA; and (ii) intoducing a three-year rolling public
investm  program in its budgetary process.
(c)    All statowned retail shops, and at least 29 hotels and restaurants will be put up
for sale through a public announcement.
(d)   Ihe size of the negative list for imports will be reduced by eliminating as least
the following items: number 245 (fuelwood, wood charcoal); 246 (wood in the
rouh); 247 (other wood in the rough); 248 (wood shaped, or simply worked);
634 (veneers, plywood boards); 635 (wood manuctures, n.e.s.); 663 (minera
manufactures, n.e.s.); 693 (wire products and fencing grills); 699 (manufures
of metal); and 893 (articles of plastics).
(e)    A study for the phased liberalization of the coffee sector will be completed, its
finns reviewed with IDA, and an action plan agreed with IDA to implement
its reconmnendations.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Bendits
95.   Both the economic and social impacts of the SAC I measures and related actions are
epecteto be stongly positive. 'he generation of growth, by relieving the foreign exchange
botdteneck, is critical to reduce poverty. The inital effect of the program is already visible in
agriciture, where improved incentives and selective decontrol have permitted farmers to respond
to the favorable rains by raising the production of cereals to peak levels. Continued progress on
this ront will reduce the food deficit, while generating additional incomes for the vulnerable
groups. Macroeconomic stabilization, combined wfith reforms to correct price distortions and the
decontrol of muturing prces, wil create a favorable envionment for private investment and
production It will also guard against inappropriate investments, as economic and financial



-32-
profitability are brought closer together by the operadon of freer markets. Improved pricing of
foreigp exchange, capital and labor, combined with implementationof a more flexible labor code,
will promote the use of labor, which is Etiopia's most abundant factor of production. Ihis will
have a direct effect on reducing povrty. In addition, the rmoval of bottlenecks to exports will
allow Ethiopian producs to capitalize on better export prices in local currency and peneae the
interntional market, rather than restrict themselves to the weak domestic market.
96.   Fiscal reforms under SAC I are intended to ensure that, aRer an initial periad of
increasin deficits, the fisca position becomes sustainable. Ihe fiscal and inerest rate reforms
wiU promote inreased domestic resource mobilization, thereby reducing over time Ethiopia's
high reliance on foreign assistance. Ihe review of public expenditures proposed to be completed
under SAC I should support improvements i the fiscal position, as it would allow the TGE to
re-amine and resructure current expendius and implement effective programs of
development spending. An important role of the review will be to ensure that public spending
complements private investm, rather than crowds it out.
B. Sodal impact
97. It is unlikely that there will be any major social dislocations as a result of implementing
SAC I, althoug there will be some public enterprise job losses as a result of imposing a hard
budget constraint and a reduction in the monopoly power of several parastatals. Major
privatlzation and public sector retrenchment measures will not be attempted under this program.
WhUe changes in direct and indirect taxes and the correction of price distortions may be expected
to result in some eUxp iture-switching, the effects are marginal and are expected to be more than
offset by the general expansion in production and spending that will result from relieving the
foreig excnge constraint. Nevertheless, as explained In its Letter of Development Policy, the
TOE is strongly committed to mtgating the adverse effects of structural adjustment.
98.   AllD -          that occrduring the SAC I period wi1 at least be overed by the legal
minimum provided under current labor legislation. A recent United Kingdom ODA/IDA
asessment of retechment etperience and proposals in Ethiopia concluded that the new Labour
Law (1993) was more favorable for retrenched workers an the 1975 statutes it replaced. The
Law provides for payment of two months salary, and payment of an additional one-and-one-third
montl's salary for every year or part-year worked. In addition, unmsed amnnu leave and pension
rights are fully protected. Ihe TGE is also encouragi  Ministries and enterprises to develop
employment promotion schemes for retrenchees. While the total scale of retrenchment can only
be esdmated pardy-that is, only in parasltas for which definite plans exist for liquidation or
downsizing-the TOE expects that as much as 40 percent of public enterprise employees may be
afected over the next 24 months, at a tot estimated budgetary cost of at least Birr 290 million
(two percent of total projected govemment exenditures during 1993/94 and 1994195).
Substatial downsizing of the civil service is unlikely to take place unt completion of the civil
service review, and a clearer defiition of the functions of the Goverment by the elected
administrationthat is expected to assume office in 1994. For those that occur, an adequate level
of severance payments and pension entitlements, expansion of employment opportnies as a
result of the devolution of powers to regional govenments, and labor absorption through higher
economic growth are expected to mitigate the adverse social effects.



-33 -
99.   Nevertheless, the generatioi of growth will take time. Meanwhile, the TGE recognizes
the need to improve the consumption levels of tihe poor, and to support their incomes in tie
hnrim. Upward adjusments have already been made to the salaries of civil servants following
the devaluation, and step have also been taken to compensate parastatal employees and c
servants who have been laid-off. The authorities are also considering a number of safety net
options, namely increasing employment oppoftunities of the poor through public and community
works programs, and by providing direct consumption supports through a food/kerosene voucher
and agicultural inputs program. While Birr 517 million were allocated in the 1992/93 Budget,
ondy Birr 22 were spent as of end-February 1993. 'Me 1993/94 Budget is being formulated, and
the TGE has indicated that it will include significant amounts for safety net programs. The
challenge is to ensure that such expenditures are transparent in the budget, transitory, and well-
targeted. In addition, the TOE is preparing with MDA a public works and employment project
with two primary aims: poverty alleviation and the creation/rehabiliaion of infrastructure
through community-based labor-intensive publhc works schemes. Implementation of the project
is expected to begin in early-1994.
C. Risk
100. The major risk faced by SAC I implementation is political. Actions on the political front
to increase participation and preserve stability are crtical. Nationality rights and regional
devolution are at the core of current political activities. The contiued maintenmce of security
and re-establishment of the normal processes of civil adminstration are essential to support
economic activity. As the transitional period for the resolution of outstanding political issues is
set In the Transitona Charter to end by Januay 1994, events in the interim will have a
significant effect on the TGE's ability to sustain the reform program. The front-loading of
reform  measures  inimizes the risk of a major deralment of SAC I, and successfid
implementation would provide a major impetus for the contmity of policies. If implemented
succully, the availability of a Second Tranche of funding would prevent a potWe   disruption
of external support in the period during which the elected Government takes power after Janumry
1994.
101.  Although fte TGE's performance on the economic fron has been impressive, it is
important to recognize  at it is, as yet, inexperienced in implemening strucural reforms and
dealing with markets. There are remnants of command and control attitudes within some sections
of the administration, and mutual distrust between the private sector and the bureaucracy.
Technical skills are also iF short supply. Therefore, the risk of potenially weak ilen
canot be discou  -'. No. Jl of this risk can be mitigated. However, selective use of externa
technical assistan, carefil monitoring by IDA staff and other extn  dowrs, combined with
a willingness on the part of the adinistration to make mid-course corrections, if necessary, will
minimize the possibility of weak Implematon.



v34 -
V. RECOMMENDATION
102. 1 am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association. I recommed that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washingon, D.C.
May 27, 1993
Attachments



ANNEX IA
- 35-                                 Page I of 3
ETIMOPLIk KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
SaUna?.         Ppjecto
598889    1989/90    1990/91    1991192    1992/93      1993/94    1994195
S2                       '%                             --.%
~~i~s(IJSSM~~~~               p294~       39i         3                     6    ~     3
1p3-6      U , ' >406 3                      279
N,aiN,   (   ' k- *,. SM,*.'..................    .-           83.'        Q     s  i...,1
f~~~N'                     s    $ . .N  . . . '<        - - .     4= .:.<  N :-                   ;-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9S*,.,,-a...
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Sou.ces:  04%  .'wv2'.3%d by10.4% E                   Nutho; and      1 daff  t-2.%
SA%K~~~4                                                     :22%.'0O%~-0~<2A~')% -.0t
70%  K  '5.6%. 116%              1.0%. ..  243        kz42de       j %a
N                        .  .  ~~~~               11.~~~%    40.0%       -8~~~4.0%
~1Sc/Eaotas        NN. . 
7/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                  `--:].:l Ahb inex
U. Excluding dl OfV "dal  Ts.             .
9/  st.1ndW~4~fl(..'$                  112.*      5I; of  <142.3       ,17rc212s9              115.2      251.7'
Aimlaal  CP11(~~ ~.'  ..... 9*%  5.1%   ~~  9%'a~<   2t0%~NN   '24.2%   ~       -a200%.
2/ ~ ~     ~    ~    " Expo                          a o0soc'    12s$rv ces
3 4 Co .st Nt Nrc  aa fo p.j.                                               44y,.o euraiz  a rio
cxotd(by c wc kRptaf d   :aep'54%                            25%          1w         6.%<    4$             37
4/ r(udesallr bPI/ Gnt.'. ,             13         1Z           .%        71             *       .4          91
S/ Excludigg Omft.~~~~~~~~~.,N
& lacluding~~~~ Grants.1%                              -.9 ~       02%       2.3.        1.6          6
91 Ndbmd Bak of EwopiA ta                     N<, V<,.N:  ''"<



ANNEX IA
-36-                                     Page 2 of 3
IBALANCE OFP IAYMES
Mmh. of US DdIaiso
1988/8     1989/90    1990/91      1991/92    1992(93     1993/94    199U/95
11~~~~~~~~~~4  Detdat tb.laatoSs                              64    o      lsa      er. 1e9ddbtsn u ncul d8  ... 896
Beg Y9,de sZc xcuds datd Jsu id sao*    _76            a         28d    40$
f. ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 1ep6?   *:.LO FY6O                                    395 ,t9   .425esdb a noezd



ANNEX IA
- 37 -               ~~~Page 3 of 3
OMng=. of US Doflun)
1992f93 1993194 I"95
(I)     REQUOIRMENTS            ~4?                A6~9
IMOIor Of godsIs0                         $
laterl Payztmats                   
Anmotzatton             ~1S~
Rmnrvs build-up
Reductlo In Anters50
(2)     OWN RESOURCES                           .
Expoztof goods
Exports of Servie. 
(3)-1-2  FINANCING GAP                      ?4     tP 
(4)     FOREIGN FINANCING FROM
masTFiNG COMAMTMENTS
(5)=3-4  RESIDUAL FINANCING GAP       
(6)     DEEBT RELIEF                 . ., 
(Th=5-6  REQUIRDDSBREETSM.l



ANNEX IS
-38-                           SehduIoD
PaqulIof 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETIOPIA .1
A. STATEMENT OF BANW LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Marh 30, 1993)
MM     ,~R ge
Twelve (12) LoTs and tity tWmee (33) CrediXt fully disbursed.               108.60   538.40
Cr.1404          1983   Ethiopia      Second Road Sector                              70.00      11.78
Cr.L1W9          1985   Ethiopia      Sixth Telecommmicatio                           40.00       2.60
C-.iS20          1915   Ethiopia      SixthEducation                                  70.00      38.04
Cr4s51           1985   Ethiopia      Agriultul Research                              22.00      13.38
Cr.1522          1985   Ethopia       Tochmical Asistance                              4.00       0.41
Cr.1704          1986   Ethioia       Energy                                          6L00       29.55
Cr.1722          1987   Ethopia    FPoraty                                            45.00      35.18
Cr.1765          1987   Ethiopia      Smnal Scalk Irigation i COWnL                    7.00       4.65
Cr.1782          1987   Ethiopia      Fourth Livestock                                39.00      20.95
Cr.1873          1988   Eiopia        Educadia VI                                     70.00      68.11
Cr.1913          1988   Ethioia       Family H}alth                                   33.00      21.60
Cr.956           1919   Eibopia       PADEP I                                         85.00       9.4S
Cr.20G2          1989   Eiopia        Transport                                       72.00      67.99
Cr.2103          1990   Ethiopia      Mmarkt Towns Dcv.                               40.20      37.40
Cr.2161          1990   Ethiopia      Second Addis Urban Dev.                         35.00      34.47
Cr.2351          1992   Ethiopia      Embergency Recovery i Recotrucio Progam         150.00    129.88
Cr.2438 h        1993   Ehiopia       Road Rehabiitadion                              96.0      92.17
Cr.2478          1993   Ethiopia      Erites Econ. Rec. Rae.                          25.00     25.12
Total                                 108.60  1503.60    642.73
of which repaid                     101.79    40.32
Tota huld by iank & IDA                 6.81   1463.28
Amount sold     6.04
of which repaid 6.04
Total Undisbursed                                         642.73
al No SECALs, SALs and Program Lan.
bi Not yet ffctive.
04-13-93



ANNEX IB
- 39 -
Schelulo D
Pgo 2 of 3
B. S-TATEMET QE IFC MESTMENTS IN ETHIOPIA
(As of Match 30, 19)
1965, 1970,   Diro Dawa     Spnig Weavig and                    3.40    1.42    4.82
1973                         Fhido
196C         EthiopianPulp   Mf. of ul PW & Pmo                 0.00    2.11    2.11
1968         Motabr         SbsarPaFworie8 and                  5.52    3.52    9.04
1989        Red Seoa        Cmde Pdtoleum and                  0.00    7.80    7.80
Natural G8
Taola Grms fomitret                                8.92   14.85   23.77
LAw rqynfs, c ,clldm
exchge adjs_m,
bko and sob1s                                8.92    7.90  1682
Toatl C     _miut slow hded bty 1}tC               0.00    6.95    6.95
Total udidra                                       0.00    6.95    6.95
Tods O _wwig IPC                                   0.00    0.00    0.00
We& 3k1
04-14-93



ANNEX IS
-40 -
Schedue D
Page 3 of 3
Disbursm   Jame
1.    Th IDA porlio for Etilopia consist of 18 projects totaling $965 mill, with $643
undisbursed. Since PY81 goss dib have avaged $54 million   a year, with a peak
o$77 million In FY89 and FY90. Until about FY89, -mpi       ws geaily satfatry.
Shne t   problem h   aisena due to in   tprov         of c1orpart &nd for rcurr
cost; problems in following IIDApu       guidles fiu  to prae and audit fnancial
account on tme; and deas due to a lack of construction matedrls.
2.     In Agr4icltural Resech (Cr. 1521), ealy Imp   ad  was sow due to seve
droughts and deas In cl wor  consttion Recey proje progress has been seveey set
back due to dmes cued by ci war. However, sprogrs has aledy bee made
in s    eng  mor reseah progrms, acheving dloser collboration wih ntationa and
Regnl Rsearch Centrs, manpower development and in improvement of research servis.
3.                 on Educadon VI (Cr. 1520) lag, though more than 70% of ths physical
project is now comtted for. Implementation delayed, due to problems arising firom shortages of
building matials and of Goverment matching fnds.
4.    ImpI          of Energy (Cr. 1704) project is prceeig atiactoy. R         of
cit proceds was recy    undetake as a resut of dicuions with Goverment on the ERRP.
S.    In addito  the Trasitionl Governm  has agreed to import the necesay materials and
eumen fom aboad; emphasis is being placed on proper provision of current cost financing as
a  ontion for noaton; seminars on p    em    a  scheduled; there wi be increased
suervision missions and county impI    n review wHi be sedud8  in the net fiscal year.
6.    As there are a f1; projects hat are ei y slow dibursing, and given the Transitional
Govemens nw economc directon, the portfolio is bei  carefully a    to  deteme the
need and scope for project restructung.



ANNEX IIA
-41 -                      Page 1 of 8
Letter of Development Policy
Vt*P lpt C P---. --.
t71                                                   .,s         p.St  r, . 
TRANWIONAL OOVUHUNr OF9 ET VWUOPA                                Tebs VW    r.>x 
NISTRY OF FINANCWS                                            A       " bUI     X+ b
-d. 133. f Aidb Abeb. Schkip*
Mr. Lewis T. Prestow
Preident
Inltemational De veopmen Associtn
1818 H Steet NW, Washington D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.          Since July 1991, when the Transitional Govemment of Ethiopia CrGE) assumed power,
we have introduced a wide-ranging, program of political, social and economic rehabiitaton and
reconstruction. In November 1991, we formulated an economic policy for the tanstional period.
Subsequently, as you are aware, together with other external donors the Int tonal Development
Association (IDA) has supported the first phase of Ethiopia's emergence from nealy two decades of slow
growth and civil war by funding the Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP). In
September 1992, the TGE, together with IDA and the Intemational Monay Fund (M), formulated
a Policy Framewortk Paper (PFP) covering the three-year period, 1992/93 to 1994/95. his was followed
quicdly in November 1992 by the OIF's approval of a Structural Adjustment Facility.
2.          By this letter, the TGE requests support from IMA for a comprohensive program of
stucwral reforms. This support, in the form of the first Structural Adstment Credit for Ethiopia (SAC
1), will enable us to implement the first phase of our adjustment progm.L We recapitulat below the
goals and cont of the program, and identify the specific measures that we intd to carry out during
the SAC I perlod. In addition, we identiy some of the longpr term meures that the TGE inteds to
announce during the SAC I period.
Enomic Goals
3.          Ethiopia is among the poorest counties in the world, although it has vast, unexploited
potei  i termsi of its physical and human resources. Since 1974, when command and conml
echanisms begaa to replace the market in regulating the economy, the prvate sector has been restricted
systematically. In addito, under the preious Governmet there was a cosdy diversion of resources
from ecoomiay productive sectors towards the maitnce of inal secuity and conduct of a
protacted civil war. Famine and drought have also taken their toil on the Edtopian ecoomy. By
mid-1991, when the TGE assumed power, much of the economic Infrastructure was destroyed, real out
per capita had declined over the three premous years by more than 6 percent, investment bad fallen
sharply, and massive domestic and extenal imbalances had brought the economy to a viru  collapse.
Ethiopia's social indicators had deteriorated to amng the worst in the
world, and per capita annual income was e_t at $120 per year in 1991; it continued to decline
during 1992. Presendy, neady 50 percent of the population suffels from absolute poverty, with an



ANNEX IIA
- 42-                         Page 2 of 8
estimated average per capita daily calorie intake that is only 80 percent of the minimum requirement for
a healthy life.
4.           With such adverse initial conditions, the task of economic development in Ethiopia can
be expected to be long and complex, and will require strong domestic and international commitment. The
primary goal of economic reform is the attainment of broad based and sustinable economic development.
This is to be achieved through rapid employment creation. We are convinced that expanding job
opportunities based on labor-intensive technology and utilization of domestic resources will come only
from a basic transformation from a command to a market economy, with the private rather than public
sector playing the lead role. In addition, to enable all Ethiopians, but especially the poor, to take
advantage of the increased economic opportunities that will come with growth, a fimdamental reallocation
of resources towards the social sectors is necessary. Some of the counterpart finds generated from
external assistance in the coming years are expected to provide to some etent a social safety net and the
kind of social conditions that will be conducive to supportiDng rapid development in the economy.
Moreover, this is in line with our commitment to protect the poor in the period before economic growth
generates adequate employment.
Sequencing Reforms
S.           Soon after its establishment, the TGE sought to obtain external assistance for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the economy, partly for activating under-utilized production capacities.
At the same time, we have also embarked on a program of structural reforms. This program should raise
investment, particularly by the private sectors, reduce the public sector, allow market signals the primary
role in allocati  resources in the economy, mobilize a larger volume of domestic resources to support
investment, production and trade, and improve the quality of social services for all Ethiopians, while
providing increased access for the poor. Broadly speaking, we perceive the structural adjustment
program as achieving the following objectives by the end of the curent PFP program period (1994/95):
reaching a growth rate of real income of at least 5.5 percent per year; lowering inflation to below 7
percent; conaining the current account deficit (including official transfers) to below 8.6 percent of GDP;
and lowering the total external debt service ratio to below 32 percent (after debt relief).
6.          In the first phase, we are focusing on macroeconomic stabilization, correcting key price
distortions while increasing the role of market signals, providing critical inputs for trade and production,
initiating improvements in economic environment for private business activty, and public enterprise
reform. More complex tasks, and policies that will require a broader consensus, will be taken up during
subsequent phases. ITus, the main part of civil service reform and privatization of public assets wil take
place once adequate preparations have been made, although initial steps in this direction have been taken
already. Similarly, financial sector reforms will be tackled during the second phase of the adjusument
effort, although efforts to reform the legal and regulatory frameworks and the interest rate structure have
been started. The complex issue of rural land ownership wil be addressed once an elected Government
assumes power.
7.           Agreement has been reached with IDA on the actions to be supported by SAC 1.
Understandably, the content of the program is affected by several factors, chief among which are the need



ANNEX IIA
-43 -                           Page 3 of 8
to sequence refom  careflly and to pace reforms in line with the implementation capacity of the TGE
and the availability of extenal support. It should be noted that the SAC I actions represent a subset of
the structura measures to be undertaken by the TGE during the first phase of adjustment. Several of
these actions will have a significant direct effect on the external resource needs of the Ethiopian economy.
There are two main components to this program - support for macroeconomic stabilization and private
sector development. In supporting this adjustment program, the groundwork for subsequent phases will
be laid. Further, in these areas, specific actions are proposed as described in the policy matrix attached
to this letter. The remainder of this letter identifies the specific commitnents of the TGE to the content
of the SAC I program and the on-going structural adjustment effort.
Support For Macroecoomic Stabilization
8.           Macroeconomic stability is central in the transition from planned to market systems. As
incentives replace command and control in the allocation of resources, low and stable inflation, the
uninterrupted availability of foreign exchange, and prices that reflect scarcities become essential supports
to growth. Towards this end, the SAC I program contains basic measures to correct inherited distortions
in key economic prices and the functioning of selected markets. In addition, and recognizing, the key
role of the fiscal balance in maintaining macroeconomic stability, we propose to undertake several
measures to engineer a structural improvement in government revenues and expenditures. Overall, we
intend to maintain an appropriate macroeconomic framework, to be agreed annually with the IM and
IDA in the context of a PFP. As mentioned earlier, a PFP was completed in September 1992.
Checkpoints for evaluating the appropriateness of macroeconomic policies will be offered by the first year
review, currendy planned for June 1993 (that is, prior to Board Presentation of SAC 1), and the
following review prior to release of the Second Tranche.
9.           Coting Distortions In Key Economic Prices. The efficiency of resource mobilization
and allocation has been affected adversely by distortions in key economic prices in the Ethiopian economy
-the price of labor, capital and foreign exchange. The land ownership question is undoubtedly important
for economic development. However, this issue will be addressed only after an elected government
assumes office. The TGE, however, has moved swifdy to correct major distordons in these prices, as
a first step in liberalizing all key prices.
10.          The devaluation of the Birr by 59 percent in October 1992, after 19 years of a nominal
parity of Birr 2.07 to the US Dollar, was the most significant of recent changes. This measure has
improved incenives for the production of tradeable goods, which is necessary if the Ethiopian economy
is to be placed on a sustainable economic growth path. The Govertment will use the exchange rate to
restore and maintain Ethiopia's competitiveness and minimize smuggling and has implemented a market-
based allocation mechanism in line with an agreement reached wih the IMF. Deposit and lending interest
rates in the economy have been negative in real terms for long periods, with adverse effects on domestic
resource mobilization and often resulting in a poor allocation of scarce domestic capital. The problem
was aggravated by a severe policy-induced segmentation of the credit market, which discriminated
especially against private sector borrowers. Since October 1992, a mechanism has been implemented to
adjust deposit and loan rates periodically, in order to maiin them  at positive real levels.
Simultaneously, regulations that discriminated against the private sector were eliminated, and replaced
7



ANNEX IIA
- 44 -                        Page 4 of 8
with ones that promote tthe smooth flow of capital to activities that offer the highest potenial rettur.
A public sector salary adjustment was made to partly off-set the rising cost of living, particularly for low
wage earaers. Although a decompression of the salary structure necessary to reward skills in short supply
and to retain qualified staff in public service has not been possible due to resource constaints, it remains
a medium-term objective of the Government. This issue, among others, will be examined in the civil
service review proposed to be completed by December 1993. The TGE has also passed a new Labor
Code which promotes both wage and labor flexibility.
11.          Fiscal Refo[m  Tradidonally, budgetary expenditures have represented a relatively large
proportion of GDP, at times exceeding 40 percent, reflecting massive expenditures on defense and
internal security, a large wage bill and budgetary subsidies and the dominant role of the Government in
capital formation. There has been a significant 'peace dividend* since the TGE assumed power, allowing
us to trim security-related current expenditures from 17.7 percent of GDP in 1989/90 to about 4.8 percent
in the currant fiscal year. Even so, the absence of any significant private sector investment-either
domestic or foreign-implies continued and large resource needs in the public sector to rebuild the
economy. However, declining income and a narrow revenue base have caused a sharp fall in governent
revenues (15.2 percent of GDP in 1991/92). To allow for increased public investment in social and
economic infatue, the TGE will continue to curtail existg budgetary subsidies and contain the
wage bill, strengthen financial management and raise the productivity of public expenditures. It will also
broaden and improve the revenue base and make it compatible with the needs of a market economy; a
revenue effort equivalent to 22 percent of GDP is considered feasible for the PFP period. Nevertheless,
the overall fiscal deficit (including, grants but excluding loans), currently estimated at 10 percent of GDP,
is expected to remain at about 8 percent of GDP in 1994/95.
12.         Increased mobilization of domestic resources is an important objective of the fisca
reforms. To increase revenue buoyancy while improving private incentves, the following measures have
been taken: (a) the personal income tax stucture was revised in October 1992, lowering the highest
marginal rate, reducing the number of tax brackets, and raising the thresholds for taxation to compensate
for inflation; and (b) all export taxes except those on coffee (an important source of revenue) have been
abolished. Under SAC I, the following additional measures will be taken with similar aims in mind: (a)
rental income will be taxed, beginning in 1993/94; and (b) before release of the Second Tranche, and
following a review, the marginl corporate and non-corporate business income tax rates will be unified
at a rate below the personal income tax rate, and at least capital gains will be included in the estimation
of business income, and the coverage of sales taxes will be expanded to include the following taxable
services: consuting services, advertizing, and entertaiment. Furthermore, we intend to review and
change the tax structure taking into account the recommendations of the IMF and IDA. Changes in tax
coverage and rates will be accompanied by improvements in tax admiistration. Several steps in this area
havt been started to strengthen the program of training and amism ve improvements in the Inland
Revenue Authority and the Customs Authority, and initiate studies for further improvements, including
the following measures: (i) training courses; (ii) preparation of work manuals (Cii) establishment of
separate department for tax fraud and criminal investigation.
13.         In order to reduce budgetary subsidies, the TGE has eliminated all export subsidies and
the domestic wheat subsidy. More, significantly, all parastatals will be subjected to a "hard budget
constraint for fiscal year 1993/94 and beyond. The TGE would like to reiterate its policy of eliminating
all budgetary support for the operational deficits of parastatals. In addition, the "hard budget" constraint



ANNEX IIA
- 45 -                        Page 5 of 8
involves the ending durng 1993/94 of all cross-arrears among parastatals, and with fiancial institutions
and govenmet departments. It should be noted, however, that the TGE will continue to provide
(selectively and on a reduced scale) necessary equity injections and capital expenditure allocations for
parastatals, but within fiscal parameters agreed in the context of the PFP. In addition to the above
measures, all external grants and counterpart fimds will be accounted for in the central budget, and to
the extent possible all financial grants and counterpart funds will be channeled through it.
14.          A public expenditure review has been initiated with IIDA assistance. The TGE is
providing all necessary support and information for a comprehensive review. Upon completion of the
review, but before Second Tranche release, agreement will be reached with IDA on an action plan to
implement its recommendations in the budget of 1994195 and beyond with a view to raising the efficiency
of public expenditures. The action plan will also involve the introduction of a three-year rolling plan of
public investments. At the same time, budgetary decisions for 1994195 and beyond are expected to
benefit from completion of the civil service review.
Private Sector Developnent
15.          A dynamic and self-sustaining private sector is the cornerstone of a market economy.
The TGE intends to promote the private sector through improvements in the "enabling environment".
This involves a broad range of actions to increase opporunities for the private sector, eliminate
discrimnatory treatment, reduce regulatory controls, improve production incentives, and provide an
adequate level of business support, including smooth access to inputs, infrastructure and other services.
The open environment for private investment which has been established will be further strengthened and
maintained. In addition, although expected to take several years, we envisage a reduction in the size of
the public sector and the growth of competitive markets in the economy.
16.          Several areas have been identified, and indeed actions taken, to promote competitve
markets. New Investment, Public Enterprise and Labor codes have been issued. Further, amendments
to the commercial code, and laws and regulations governing the National Bank of Ethiopia and the
banking sector are expected to be ratified in the presit fiscal year. Ihe TGE is also at g to
change the boundary between the public and private sectors. For this, all parastatals that will be divested
by the Government have been identified, although details regarding timing and methods are yet to be
worked out. By December 1993, and based on a review that is currentiy underway, we will issue
directives for a phased program to sell government-owned houses to the private sector. Before release
of the Second Tranche, the TGE also intends to put up for sale through public announcement all retail
shops it presenty controls and 29 hotels and restaurants.
17.          Price liberalization is an important objective of the TGE. At this stage of the economic
transition, and given continued shortages of basic goods and the deep poverty of half of the population,
price signals to guide resource allocation deserve greater emphasis. However, while price liberalization
is an important objective, we have to give carefil attention to protecing the consumption of the poor and
avoiding sharp or potentially destabilizing price increases. Therefore, although all farmgate and retil
prices have been decontrolled, the TGE has continued to guide parastaal enterprises in price setting for
manufactured products. However, this practice will be discontinued before Board Presentation of SAC
I, except for nine essential goods: sugar, four varieties of textiles (khaki, nylon, abujadid and a specific
type of cotton yarn), cement, corrugated roofing material, nails, and iron bars for construction. Of these,
7WZ



ANNEX IIA
-46 -                         Page 6 of 8
sevcral will be sold through the public distribution network at controlled prices. In addition, the
mompoly power of several parastatals is expeced to be eroded through competion from the privae
sector. The TGE has formally bolished the monopoly power of the following enterprises ad marketing
organizations: the Ethiopian Domestic Distribution Corporation, the Ethiopian mport Export Corporation
and the Agricultural Marketin Corporation. In practice, however, the absence of private sector
competitors, and continued limhations on the availability of imports because of foreign exchange
shortages, implies that the monopoly power of several enterprises will persist in the short-to-medium
term.
18.          The importance of coffee production and exports cannot be overstated. However,
significant gaps exist in our knowledge of this sector, especially the appropriate pace and conte  of
liberalization. Towards this end, we intend to complete a study for the phased liberalization of the coffee
sector. The report will be reviewed jointly with IDA and an acdon program agreed before release of the
Second Tranche.
19.          Competition from imnports is an important factor increasing efficiency. A central feature
of SAC I is the establishment of a mechanism to make foreign exchange for imports available to the
private sector through official channels. As of May 1, 1993, the TGE has implemented a mechanism to
provide market-priced foreign exchange to private sector producers and parastatal firms on a regular
basis. A negative list is used to determine eligibility for access to this scheme. At the same time, import
licensing procedures have been simplified. As agreed with the IMF, the size of the negative list will be
reduced every six months. Before release of the Second Tranche, the negative list will be reduced by
eliminating 13 items, including wood and some manufactured items.
20.          The recent devaluation of the Birr has raised the local cost of imports by neady 142
percent. 'his has increased the already high levels of tarifi that existed in the import duty regime. Ihe
regime is also characteized by a mixture of specific and ad valorem duties, disparate treatment of similar
products and a number of exemptions. We have agreed on the content of the first phase of trade
liberalization, which will be implemen   trough the 1993/94 budge. Liberizatioconsists of the
following measures: (a) reclassification of the import schedules under the Harmonized System; (b)
conversion of all but a few specific duties into ad valorem rates; (c) bringing into line the stadard rate
of sales tax on imports and domestically-produced goods; (d) conversion of the supra sales taxes ino
excise taxes; (e) conversion of 511 out of 588 "zero" duty rates into appropriate positive rates; (f) a
reduction in the number of rate categories from the present 25 to 10; (g) a new maximum duty rate of
80 percent rather dtan 230 percent; and (0) the elimination of import duty eemptions thatve been
granted in the past to some non-exporters. It should be noted, however, that trade liberalization will be
implemented over several years. The nominal protection afforded by the recent Bir devaluation and the
proposed duty schedule will continue to be high durng the first year of the reform. The objective of
subsequent reforms will be to reduce the tariff substantially over a three-year period such as to encourage
improvements in the efficiency of domestic activities in which Ethiopia ought to be competitive and to
selectively promote economic activities in which Ethiopia has the potent  to be competitive.
Furthermore, the subsequent reform will take due regard of government revenue and the country's
balance of payments position. In addition, we will continue to eliminate import duty exemptions for non-
exporters.



ANNEX IIA
- 47 -                        Page 7 of 8
21.          The TGE ines to promote exports at the same time as  Improves the import regime.
As the level of import duties will remain high in the short-term, despite the SAC I reforms described
above, for those items not covered by the existing duty drawback scheme they will act as a tax on
exports. There is thus a need to streamline and broaden the import duty drawback scheme to Anrther
improve export incentives. Changes have been made in the 4uty drawback scheme to broaden coverage
and to simplify administrative requirements. In addition, a recent review of traditional and non-traditional
expots identified several constraints which have been rectified. These include, among others, changes
in the costs of licensing for coffee exporters, and private sector entry into the marketing of gum arabic.
22.          Clearly, structural economic reforms are not cosdess, and some social groups will be
affected adversely by policies intended to promote greater efficiency in production and in the allocation
of resources. The TGE Is strongly committed to mitigang the adverse effects of structural adjustment,
especily for the poor. It is expected that, under SAC I, public sector employees may be especially
vulnerable to the removal of parasa  monopoly power, the placement of public enterprises on
commercial lines and expenditure-switching and expenditure reduction that may occur as a result of the
recent devaluation, price decontrol, and proposed changes in the trade regime. All retrenchments that
occur during the SAC I period will at least be covered by the legal minimum provided under the current
labor legislation. In this regard, detailed directives providing guidance to government departmens have
been issued.
Groundwork For Next Phase of Adjustment
23.          The transition to a market economy will ca1l for new and radically different capacities
for economic management. Subsequent phases of the structura adjustment program, will require careful
design, based on a greatly enhanced base of information and skills. During the SAC I period, and wih
assistance from UNDP and other external donors, the TGE intends to complete a number of studies and
build selective institutional capacities to assist in the design of subsequent phases of the adjustment
program and, specifically, for designing a follow-up structual adjusment credit (SAC 11) from IDA.
24.          Among the areas of immediate interest are the rationalization and coordinadon of revenues
and expenditures, and restoration and improvement of the statistcal database to assist in the management
of the economy. Further, we intend to open the financial market to competition and increase its
efficiency as a part of the structural reform effort. Finally, to supplement and inform the inives
underway to deal with the exteme povert found in Ethiopia, we intd to strengthen the monitoring of
poverty. Terms of reference for the following studies have been developed and agreed with IDA: Sector
programming and aid coordination; statistical priorites; financial sector strategy; and poverty monitoring.
25.          In addition, action plans wiUl be agreed with IDA for institional strengtheniin the
following areas:  computezation of the core economic agencies and stcal offices, and the
strengthening of auditing and accounting capabilities. Although many other areas of insional
strengthening no doubt exist, this focus will enable us to build capacities in priority areas without
disrupting the smooth operation of economic management.



ANNEX IIA
- 48 -                       Page 8 of 8
Conclusdon
26.          'he Transitional Government of Ethiopia has embarked on a far-reaching program of
reforms to transform the economy from a command to a market system. The successfil completion of
all conditions for release of the Second Tranche proposed for SAC I will demonstrate the TGE's
commitment to the adjustment program. IDA's financial technical support to the structural adjusent
of the Ethiopian economy is critical, and will provide an umbrella for participation of other external
donors. We request, therefore, your approval of a Structural Adjustment Credit of $250 million, to be
disbursed in two tranches.
Sincerely yours,
t 'f FiL'
Minister of Finance



- 49 -
ANNEX IB
Page 1 of S
Structur   Adjush et Credit I - Rform Pr em
Reom Objeves And            Instrunents  And  Measures                                             Monioable Actions
Aeas E0 Ation               A A4y hwilented                       SAC I Action                     And Tmint
A. gsut For Magoemoi kSto abjDhm
L. Correct d     _trto      After completing neotations in       (a) Mainain an appropria          Continuous
In  key  prc    to          Setmbe  1992 of a Policy              macrocomiofamewoktO
imo_ e  ehlaney   t          Framework Paper for the period       promoe stabilizWon;
rese        _obflathoa       1992/93  to   1994/95,  tho
and allocation.             Tansn1 a  Govement  (m)                ) Devablation from  Birr        Compkld
implemented  sveral  agreed          2.07 to Birr 5 per US Dolar-
measure.                             59% in Dolar terms;
Autmatic hiring practcs In the      (a) Upward adjustment in          Competed
publo sector that disto  wages       interst rates on depoits and
and  d  labor availability in the    credits;
rest of the conomy have bee
tpped. In addition, a new Labor      (d) Publc  soeor  saary          Compleed
Code has bean isued.                 adjustme    to compensate
party for ree  rea wage
declnes.
(e) hoe ecg rate will be        Contnuous
inained at an appropria
level to resor  Ethiopia's
external compe     s ad
minimize smugglng.
(f) Itrs  rates wi  be           Continuous
rviwed at tduee  monh
intrvas to matain dem at
posuve roa kvea for both
depositos and borowers;
IL  Lowe  the  sWa          The TG has impl nted sevr             Revenues:
elck and prvide for         revenue measur  to eiminate or
appropriae means of         srml    taxes-for  exaumplo           (a)  Revis  the  personal        Completd
domestic finadg In          agrultund ttax, unowverux,            income taX stue, raise
order to rednee the         transactions tx                       the threshold for taxton,
hInea imbeane and                                                 reduce  the  number  of
naintain  low   and                                               bracets, and  lower tho
stable  rates  of                                                 highest marginl tax wate.
Inftionl.  Incrase
revenue  bouyaney                                                 (b)  xoept for coffee, drop      Completd
whUe  relntit                                                     al expo tx.
towards the needs of a
market  economy.                                                  (a)   Agmeement wM  be           Compled
Reduco    goverment                                              readhed on the taxation of
-              a



I                       6
{ i a                             I i                         5 k



-51-
ANNEX U B
Page 3 or 5
Wi  be mde, p_stats Wi               (o) Compete dhe   i sewvi        December, 1993
dLbt                sad no           eview agred in the' PP.
govanment guntee  wm  be
p-        for  their  domest
borrwing.
B. 
L. Rede        boundary      The TG ha tak initil measu           Aons ar  proposed ca
behw_  p_lc  and             to redace,t d  scope of the publi    eval fonts:
private   econoei            setor and alow ger eoomic
yopportnt     for  the  piate       (a) A  udy wil be complted        December, 1993
sector:                             and a govanmat deciso
issued for a phased progm
(a) Seuriy of had usesip and        to  sell gonm        -
the elmnation of restictions on      houses to the private secto.
hoad antd lribu-in gabot.
(b) AU pubic e   _nt will       Completd
(b) Enacbsat in May 1Q92 of an      be ceorized acoring to
u'wemaent code which modifies        tir  ulmhte  o_wMh
earle reguatios.                     statu.
(o) Ranoval of most ricioos         (a) Stewnd ral shops,            By Second Tanobe
on pivate seetor partopation in      and at kamt 29 hoteb and
tad in nanufaturd items and In       raut  will be put up for
theprvision of selted sMaes.         sale  through  publio
announcenenL
IL   Promote  price          A larg  number of ag _utul           1. Prime decontol will be
signals  and   the           poducts and a wide aray of           coninued in the folowing
operation   of               goods impoed by the prvat            maner:
miable Imcdes.               secor arm in pratie sold at
decotofled pie.                      (a) All mnufacted prdut          Completwd
pries will be deonroled
with  h  eepions noted
bebw, and the conened
paaal   manager   so
notified.
(b) Te monoply power of          Complted
parastatats produoing
trdeable  goods  wll be
erded. The prices of nine
tradeable goods pduced by
de facto mobly supe
wM be adjused on te bass
of imnpot pa*   plu  an
amountupto prv&iin duty.
2. Mh monopoly power of          Compleed
offcial distibuton and trde
oorporations-Domestic
Ditibution, bxpt4nvoort,
Agriulura Market-Wl
be limnatd.



-52-
ANNEX II B
Page 4 of 5
3. A study for thphased
Iienliaton of the coffee        By Second Trench.
setor will be completd, its
&fnngs  viwed with IDA.
and  agment  will  be
reached on an action pln to
imploment its
rwommendatons.
L  Improve prive            Sin  Octobr 992 te National         (a)  Prvate  sector  and        Completed
sedor access to criia       Bank of tbhiopia has aLpoatd        pa l producers wil be
Iputs, chiefy foreiun        i  132.2 mMion to dIe prvte        given  access to  foreign
achange.                    sectr forthepuhaseof essentl        exchange,  through   a
oonsumr, intermediaeandoapil        mechansm   stsfactr  to
goods. An additional Bin 615       IDA.
million is also aailable for p*iat
sector impots under the EIW
progrm.
IV.  RatonaIe  the          Nono                                The first phaw  of import       Completd
inport tariff regbne,                                           rebrms will consist of the
Intaly  to  Incrse                                              foiowing measures:
revenue  bouyancy                                               (a)  Complete  the
while   making                                                  classification  of imported
prtectioransmt                                                  items under the Harmonized
Subsequeny, Imprt                                               System.
dutes wm   be used
mainly for proectie                                            (b) Convet spcific import
purposes.    Prnvie                                             duties into ad valorem rates.
apwr with speedy
acess  to  Impotd                                               (a) Reiew and implment
Inputs at  _    _euraona                                        changes in the standard rae
prices  and  reduce                                             of saks tax an imports.
marketing   and
regutoy costs.                                                 (d) Implement changes in the
taiff structure by revi g
all 'zero tariff, applying a
maxium duty rate of 80%
and rducing thw nmber of
duty braces to 10.
(e) Reduce the number of
categories of importrs who
camrtly receive imort duty
exemptions.
(I) Indioae in the Let of
Devlop t Policy a plan
for substan y reducing the
level and disionofimport
duties over an agrsee ime
horizon
(g) Reduce the size of the      By Second Tlche
negive lst to  libaalize
imports  further  by



-53 -
ANNEX I B
Pap So tS
eliminang  at  lat Ihe
fo         ienms: numbers 245
to 248, 634, 635, 663, 693,
699 ad 893.
rmoval of oumlubiases
agbat expotb will oCUr
tdrougb:
(a)  Streamlining  and          CompleWd
broadening the scope of the
import duty drawback
system.
Ob) Identification and removal  ComplIded
of speoific maketdng and
regulaory constrinb on the
expansion of exports.
V.     RebmeC      t        With help from the World Bank,      Develop and issue directives    Completed
Saety Nes                   the TG is designing a transitory    to all governnent agencies on
safety net for those most in need.  a policy and mechanism for
public sector employee
retrenchment.
C.      GrmundWOlrk FK Next Plase OQ   Set Adufa ment
L I.formtio system          With assistance from the EMP ad     Agreeent on action plans        Completed
and   Institutions          other external agencies, die TG     for computerizaion of the
required  to  support       has initiated contcts for the       core economic agencies and
further deveopment of       upgrading  of some  statiscal       stistical offices, and for
the  private  sector        colkltion  efforts.    Training     strengthening audiing and
shoul be upgraded.          courses for selected  officials     accounting capacities.
involved in economic
administrtion have also been
started.
11. Develop  secora         Several  studies  are  being        Agreement on  terms  of         Compleed
and  institutional          undatken withi officiairles-        refrenc  for the following
knowlee to underpin         for  exampl,  fiscl  sudies,        studi5s: sector programming
the desg  of furter         reginal devolution, social safety   and  aid  coordination;
stcral adustment            nets,  school  curriculum           ss    priorities; financial
measues.                    develbpment-in areas identifi-d in  sector stay; and poverty
the PFP as ortial for economic      monitori
reform.



- 54 -                 ,bMM
FItSTRUCTtRAL ADJUSMENr CREDTrr (SAC 1)
iowainPlan
MDA SupwrvisI  Input
1.    Supwvision of SAC I will involve 30 staff week, distributed equily in FY94 and FY95.
Most- actions to be tkn uder the Credit will be completed by Board Psetation. Therefore, the
focus of supvision effots will be: asosSMent Of the macroeconomic famework, monitoring of the
social impact of reform measue, the private sector's response to adjustment, progress on capacit-
buflding and studies, fnCtionig of the foreign edchange auction, donor coordination, and
d m     oje c~p9 t/poe  W-coon.
Oranization And iming Of Supevison Activitie
2.    Ihe responsibility for supevising SAC I will be shared by the Task Manager (Principal
Enmist) and the Economist in the Resident Mission, who has been involved in the preparation of
the Credi. Regarding the macroeconomic framework, restoring fiscl balance while improving the
effectivenes of goverment Spnding will be critical for the success of the overall stabilization effort.
At the TOE and IDA are jointly preparing a comprehensive review of public expenditures, close
monioring of the macoeconomic framework wil be possible. In addition, close coLaboation will
be mainined with IW  staff on montoring macroeconomic developments and assisting in the
sequencing of structural measures in the PFP. Contac with the private sector and donors will be the
responsibility of the Resident Mission. The remaining areas of focus for supervision will be the chief
responsibility of the Task Mnger. The frt suevision mion is planned for September, 1993,
and the next appro   ly six months later, or following the proposed general election. I is likely
that this mission wM be combined with a performance review, prior to release of the Second
Tranche. As this is Ethiopia's first experience with adjustment credits, it is expected that some
troubleshooting assistance on IDA's disbursement/procurement may be required during FY94.
Allowance will be made for such assistance, if required.
Brrower's Contribution To Supervion
3.    The Ministy of Finance will have overall responsibility for management of the program, and
for monitoring and reporting responsibilities as described in Section M.D. of the President's Report.
Administrative arrangements for IDA supervision missions, as well as discussion of the results of
supervision will be managed by the SAC I cordnatng group established by the TGE during
preparation of the CrediL However, the socia impact of the adjustent program will be monitored
by the Natinf  Economic Reform Task Force Qheaded by the Prime Mins). This arrangement
recogoizes the relative advantage of locally-based supervision in areas where continuous monitoring
ad strong famiiarity with instutional structures and social settings are necsary.



