Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16787
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC I)
(CREDIT 2526-ET)
June 26, 1997
Macroeconomics 2
Country Department 6
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Ethiopian Birr (Birr)
US$ 1.00 = Birr 5.00 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.00 = Birr 6.33 (at closing date)
US$ 1.00 = Birr 6.853 (as of June 26, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CLF          Swiss Francs
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
ERRP         Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
NBE          National Bank of Ethiopia
NLG          Netherlands Guilders
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
SAC I        First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF          Structural Adjustment Facility
SEK          Swedish Kronor
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SIDA         Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
TGE          Transitional Government of Ethiopia
Vice President:            Mr. Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Director:                  Ms. Oey Astra Meesook, AFC06
Technical Manager:         Mr. Roger Grawe, AFTM2
Task Team Leader:          Mr. Hyoungsoo Zang, AFTM2



FoR oFFIciAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                                      j;
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction                                                                             iii
Project Objectives
Implementation Experience and Results                                                    iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned                           v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                    1
A. Background and Project Objectives                                                      I
Background                                                                              1
Project Objectives                                                                      1
Evaluation of Objectives                                                                2
B. Achievement of Objectives                                                              2
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization                                   2
Support for the Private Sector                                                          3
Fulfillment of Specific Conditionalities                                                4
Further Actions Taken Beyond the Program's Specific Targets                             6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                                    7
D. Sustainability of Achievements                                                         7
E. Bank Performance                                                                       8
F. Borrower Performance                                                                   8
G. Assessment of Outcomes                                                                 9
H. Future Operations                                                                     10
1. Key Lessons Learned                                                                   10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                                 11
TABLE 1:       Summary of Assessments
TABLE 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
TABLE 3:       Project Timetable
TABLE 4:       Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
TABLE 5:       Key Indicators for Program Implementation
TABLE 6:       Project Cost and Financing
TABLE 7:       Studies Included in Project
TABLE 8:       Status of Legal Covenants
TABLE 9:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
TABLE 10:    Bank Resources: Mission
APPENDICES                                                                                  20
Appendix A     Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix B     Cofinanciers' comments on the ICR
Appendix C     Map of Ethiopia
T This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC I)
(CREDIT 2526-ET)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC I) in Ethiopia, for which Credit 2526-ET in the amount of SDR 176.5 million (equivalent to US$
250 million) was approved by the Board on June 29, 1993 and made effective on July 15, 1993.
The closing date of the credit was on September 30, 1996, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1994. The first tranche, in the amount of US$ 150 million, was released upon
effectiveness and fully disbursed by January 1995. The second tranche of US$ 100 million was released
in May 1995, and fully disbursed by June 11, 1996. Two IDA reflows in the amount of SDR 340,000
(US$ 470,000 equivalent) and of SDR 100,000 (US$ 138,000 equivalent) supplemented the Credit. In
addition to SAC I, cofinancing in the amount of CHF 10 million (US$ 6.8 million equivalent) was
provided by Switzerland, and Trust Funds of NLG 20 million (US$ 10.5 million equivalent) and SEK
50 million (US$ 6.5 million equivalent) were provided by Netherlands and SIDA, respectively. The IMF
supported Ethiopia's structural adjustment program over the period 1992/93 - 1994/95 by a three year
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) of SDR 49.4 million.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Hyoungsoo Zang (AFTM2) of the Africa Region. The ICR was
reviewed by Ms. Jacomina de Regt (Lead Specialist, AFTS 1), Mr. Roger Grawe (Technical Manager,
AFTM2), Ms. Oey Astra Meesook (Director, AFC06), Mr. Fayez Omar (Resident Representative,
AFMET), Mr. Akbar Noman (AFTM2), and other members of the Ethiopia Country Team. The
preparation of the ICR benefited from three supervision/tranche review/completion missions by Mr.
Deepak Bhattasali (December 1993), Mr. David Yuravlivker (December 1993, March 1995), Mr. Ejaz
Ghani (June 1996), and Mr. Hyoungsoo Zang (March 1995, June 1996). Mr. Fayez Omar (Resident
Representative, AFMET), the late Mr. Abhay Deshpande (former Resident Representative) and Mr.
Sudarshan Gooptu (Senior Resident Economist, AFMET) provided critical support to the mission
teams.
The preparation of the ICR was based on materials in the project file, including the President's
Report, Letter of Development Policy, supervision reports, progress review on the occasion of second
tranche release, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA documents. The
Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and
execution (Appendix A). The cofinanciers' comments on the draft ICR have been attached (Appendix
B).
ii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC I)
(CREDIT 2526-ET)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    With more than 55 million people, Ethiopia is the second most populous country in Sub-
Saharan Africa. The regime that ruled Ethiopia for nearly two decades dismantled most of the private
sector and imposed a centrally planned economy. After a long and devastating civil war, a coalition led
by the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front assumed power in 1991. The immediate
economic objectives of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) were to stabilize the economy,
correct the existing serious macroeconomic imbalances and structural distortions, and restore
sustainable economic growth. The First Structural Adjustment Credit (US$ 250 million equivalent) was
designed to support achievement of these goals. In September 1992, the TGE finalized the first Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) covering 1992/93-1994/95, in collaboration with the World Bank and the IMF.
This marked the formal start of an extensive stabilization and growth program for poverty reduction and
transformation from a command to a market economy. The program received support from the IMF's
Structural Adjustment Facility in October 1992. It also received strong endorsement from external
donors at a Consultative Group meeting in Paris in November 1992, and debt relief was granted to
Ethiopia on favorable conditions at the Paris Club meetings in December 1992. Moreover, Switzerland,
Netherlands, and Sweden provided cofinancing for SAC I (US$ 6.8 million equivalent, US$ 10.5
million equivalent, US$ 6.5 million equivalent, respectively). After the national elections in May 1995,
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia was established on August 21, 1995.
2.    The Credit was approved by the Board on June 29, 1993 and made effective on July 15, 1993.
The first tranche, in the amount of US$ 150 million, was released upon effectiveness and fully disbursed
by January 1995. The second tranche of US$ 100 million was released in May 1995, and fully
disbursed by June 11, 1996. The closing date was September 30, 1996.
Project Objectives
3.    SAC I was designed to support economic policy during the period in which Ethiopia went
through a fundamental transformation from centralized planning to a market-based economy. The
program consisted of two main components: support for economic stabilization and support for the
private sector. For this, SAC I covered the following actions: adjustments in key economic prices
(exchange rate, finance and wages); improvements in domestic resource mobilization, including a
reduction in the fiscal imbalance; changes in the boundary between public and private economic
activity; promotion of price signals and competition; introduction of a market-based system for
allocating foreign exchange; trade reforms; and safety net policies for those affected by structural
adjustment.
iii



4.    The objectives of the project were consistent with the TGE's recovery and rehabilitation needs
and the PFP. As a country aimning at a successful transformation from a centrally planned to a market-
oriented economy, the objectives were adequate and timely. Furthermore, SAC I programn addressed the
issue of sequencing reform appropriately. It emphasized foremost a strong macroeconomic stabilization
effort and structural reforms that would complement stabilization and lay the groundwork for the next
phase of reform in which structural reforms will be deepened.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    As a new authority emerging from the civil war against communism, it is important to recognize
that the TGE was inexperienced in implementing structural reforms and dealing with market systems.
There were remnants of command and control attitudes within some sections of the administration, and
mutual distrust between the private sector and the bureaucracy. Moreover, the widespread drought in
FY94 affected adversely the macroeconomic performance in growth and inflation. Fortunately, the surge
in international coffee prices during FY95 after the Brazilian Frost helped Ethiopia to recover from the
drought. In FY96, although coffee prices decreased to a normal level, supply responses from the coffee
sector continued to attain historically high levels of coffee export volume.
6.    Achievement of objectives was satisfactory. The assessment is that the program targets were
met or exceeded in almost all areas, although often later than originally envisaged, necessitating two
extensions of the Credit. The reform measures helped achieve an appropriate economic environment for
initiating the transition from a centrally planned to a market-based economy. The prudent
macroeconomic policies contributed to the reduction of inflation rate from over 20 percent in FY91 -
FY92 to an average of 6.3 percent in FY93-FY96. The budget deficit before grants decreased from
around 11 percent of GDP before reform to around 8 percent of GDP in FY95-FY96. The program also
addressed initial constraints to increased participation by the private sector. Noticeably, the share of
non-governmental investment in total investment increased from 17 percent before reform to more than
60 percent in FY95-FY96. A Welfare Monitoring System was established to monitor the social
consequences of its economic reform program and policies and the impact of programs on the poor. A
national household income, consumption and expenditure survey and welfare monitoring survey was
conducted in FY96. The TGE commenced social safety nets to reintegrate displaced people and
demobilized soldiers into their communities, and provided training and employment for the disabled and
orphans. A Social Rehabilitation Fund was launched to support income-generation and community
efforts to improve essential infrastructure and social assets. In addition, the governnent made
substantial shifts in allocations of its budget from military expenditures towards provision of basic
social and economic services.
7.    Bank performance in the identification of the program was highly satisfactory and consistent
with the Government's policy as well as with the Bank's assistance strategy. The SAC I programs were
well-focused and emphasized a few key policy indicators and actions that were monitorable. The Bank
collaborated closely with the TGE and the IMF in the preparation of PFPs which laid the basis for the
proposed reforms. The Bank also coordinated external donors' assistance effectively. Overall
assessment of the Bank's preparation was satisfactory. The Bank effectively and closely monitored the
implementation of the policy measures proposed in the program. Supervision missions were well
documented and closely coordinated with the IMF. However, frequent staff turnover and lack of
information transfer to cofinanciers were weak aspects. Additionally, the Bank demonstrated flexibility
in agreeing to two extensions of the credit closing date to take into account some of the delays in
implementation because of the political and economic transition Ethiopia was going through.
iv



8.    The Borrower's overall performance during credit preparation was satisfactory. The TGE
showed its commitment to the stabilization program and had implemented a significant portion of the
agreed actions before the Credit became effective. In preparation for SAC I, the TGE appointed a SAC
I coordinating group consisting of highest officials and experienced professionals to negotiate the
program. The Borrower also coordinated external donors' assistance effectively. The TGE had
emphasized the importance of borrower ownership in designing and implementing the program. Specific
conditionalities were fulfilled, although later than originally envisaged (see para. I1). In addition, agreed
studies were not delivered on time. With little experience, the Borrower tried to follow closely the
procedures specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). However, there was some
noncompliance with the covenants regarding procurement, disbursement and audits. A careless handling
of the preshipment inspection requirements caused a delay in disbursement.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The prudent macroeconomic policies and the increased participation by the private sector
helped achieve an appropriate economic environment for initiating the transition from a centrally
planned to a market-based economy. Real GDP growth in FY96 was an impressive 12.4 percent.
Moreover, the economy's ability to cope with exogenous shocks has been strengthened. Despite severe
drought in FY94, real GDP grew by more than 7.8 percent per annum during FY93-FY96 compared to
minus 3.4 percent during FY91-FY92. Under continuing reforms, real GDP is expected to grow at least
6 percent annually in the medium term. To sustain the growth rate, in addition to stable macroeconomic
management, key policy decisions will be necessary to accelerate private investment, in addition to the
measures already taken to promote competitive environment for the private sector. In June 1996, a draft
amendment to the Investment Code was ratified by the Ethiopian Parliament, which further liberalized
the investment regime as a first step towards attracting foreign private investment. More still needs to be
done, nevertheless, to increase private and foreign participation in the economy, as well as making the
regulatory structure simpler and more transparent. Given past impressive performance under SAC I and
government's intention to further liberalizing the economy to support the private sector development,
achievements are therefore likely to be sustainable.
10.   The Government has expressed the view that it appears unlikely that there will be a need for
quick-disbursing SAC from IDA in the immediate future. Nevertheless, future operations are important
for the sustainability of Ethiopia's adjustment program. While basic macroeconomic performance is
being monitored under the Fund's ESAF program (approved in October 1996), sectoral achievements,
in particular, successful development of the private sector and progress in the social sector, depend on
the Government's commitment and sector strategies backed by the international community. Knowing
this, the Government has prepared sector investment programs on roads, health, and education.
11.   The following important lessons were learned from the SAC I operation:
*  Urgent needs for reconstruction vs. preparation time:   In the formulation and design of the
conditionalities, Bank's priority was shortening the preparation time to meet the urgent needs of a
war-torn economy rather than lengthy consultation with the Borrower. Consequently, IDA and the
TGE did not allow sufficient time to implement the conditionalities. As a result, the timeframe was
too tight for full implementation of the conditions especially considering the inexperience of the
implementing agencies. This might have been avoided with more preparation time. In contrast,
v



urgent needs for reconstruction of the war-tom economy necessitated fast process and disbursement
of the Credit. Such trade-offs need to be tackled in future preparation of similar projects.
*  Political economy issues and the speed of privatization:   A tradition of mistrust between the
government and the private sector may have also contributed to a part of the delay. In particular, the
TGE supported the private sector, but envisioned a wider role for the public sector. In some cases,
the heavy cost that reform entailed for some interest groups (civil servants, parastatals) also
affected the speed of reform negatively.
*  Institutional capacities to implement and monitor reforms:  During the design period of a
reform, greater attention should be paid to dealing with institutional weaknesses. One of the
important factors for successful implementation of the planned reform measures is to accompany
actions targeted towards continuous strengthening of critical institutions. For instance, in developing
an "operative" import duty drawback system, the implementing agency encountered skill shortages
that contributed to a good part of the delay in implementation. The Bank should have paid more
attention to providing support and technical assistance for a new Borrower to learn the ropes on
procurement and disbursement procedures.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC I)
(CREDIT 2526-ET)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Project Objectives
Background
1.    Ethiopia is the second most populous country in Sub-Saharan Africa with more than 55 million
people. Ethiopia's considerable economic potential had remained largely unexploited because of the
political and economic problems before 1991. The regime that ruled Ethiopia for nearly two decades
dismantled most of the private sector and imposed a centrally planned economy. Its policies,
exacerbated by the siphoning of resources towards the war effort, left the Ethiopian economy in
shambles. After a long and devastating civil war, a coalition led by the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary
Democratic Front assumed power in 1991. The immediate economic objectives of the Transitional
Government of Ethiopia (TGE) were to stabilize the economy, correct the existing serious
macroeconomic imbalances and structural distortions, and restore sustainable economic growth. The
first Structural Adjustment Credit was designed to support achievement of these goals.
2.    In September 1992, the TGE finalized the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP) covering
1992/93-1994/95, in collaboration with the World Bank and the IMF. This marked the formal start of
an extensive stabilization and growth program for poverty reduction and transformation from a
command to a market economy. The program received support from the IMF's Structural Adjustment
Facility approved in October 1992. It also received strong endorsement from external donors at a
Consultative Group meeting in Paris in November 1992, and debt relief was granted to Ethiopia on
favorable conditions at the Paris Club meetings in December 1992. Moreover, Switzerland,
Netherlands, and Sweden provided cofinancing for SAC I. After the national elections in May 1995, the
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia was established on August 21, 1995.
Project Objectives
3.     SAC I intended to support the first phase of the economic reform program of the TGE, whose
main economic objective was to reduce poverty through rapid labor-intensive growth. This was to be
achieved through a fundamental transformation from central planning to a market-based economy, with
an increasing role for the private sector. The program consisted of two main components: support for
economic stabilization and support for the private sector. The main actions under SAC I in support of
macroeconomic stabilization were: (a) correction of distortions in key prices; and (b) structural
improvements in the fiscal position. The SAC I also supported the private sector development in the
following areas: (a) increased availability of foreign exchange for use by the private sector; (b) price
decontrol and creating competition: (c) improvements in the trade regime; and (d) reducing state
ownership and operation of assets. During the SAC I implementation period, the TGE would also build
1



institutional capacities and conduct studies to assist in designing the next phase of economic reform
program.
Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were consistent with the TGE's recovery and rehabilitation needs
and the PFP formulated by the TGE in collaboration with IDA and the IMF in September 1992. As a
country aiming at a successful transformation from a centrally planned to a market-oriented economy,
the objectives were adequate and timely. Furthermore, the SAC I program addressed the issue of
sequencing reform appropriately. It emphasized foremost a strong macroeconomic stabilization effort
and structural reforms that would complement stabilization and lay the groundwork for the next phase
of comprehensive structural reforms.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
5.    Achievement of objectives was satisfactory. The assessment is that the program targets were
met or exceeded in almost all areas, although implementation delays led to two extensions of the Credit
closing date. To achieve the objectives of the SAC I program, the TGE committed to maintain an
appropriate framework to promote stabilization; an appropriate exchange rate to restore Ethiopia's
external competitiveness and minimize smuggling, and quarterly reviews and adjustments of interest
rates on deposits and loans to achieve and maintain positive real rates. These were accomplished
successfully during the entire implementation period of SAC I. There were also specific conditions for
release of the Second Tranche. Although delays were encountered, all these conditions were met or
exceeded. In addition, the Government had taken further follow-up policy actions after the tranche
release, in particular, in the area of privatization. However, there had been some delays in the
completion of studies on civil service reform and on the sale of government-owned houses.
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
6.    The Borrower made significant progress in macroeconomic stabilization. In particular, recourse
to domestic bank financing declined from about 6 percent of GDP in FY9I-FY92 to 3 percent of GDP
in FY93-FY94, with substantial repayments in FY95 and FY96. The prudent macroeconomic policies
contributed to the reduction of inflation rate (measured by the Addis Ababa Retail Price Index) from
over 20 percent in FY91 -FY92 to an average of 6.3 percent in FY93-FY96. The main actions under
SAC I in support of macroeconomic stabilization were (a) correction of distortions in key prices and (b)
structural improvements in the fiscal position.
7.    (a) Correction of distortions in key prices:    Fixed or controlled prices, with their attendant
adverse effects on resource mobilization and allocation, had been an unfortunate feature of the
Ethiopian economy. The SAC I program included several measures to correct distortions in the price of
foreign exchange, financial capital, and labor. The TGE completed under the SAC I program the
following measures: (i) at the introduction of a foreign exchange auction in October 1992, the exchange
rate was devalued from Birr 2.07 to 5.0 per US dollar, and subsequently depreciated to Birr 6.3 per US
dollar as of June 1996. In July 1995, the official exchange rate was unified with the auction rate. The
current gap between the official exchange auction rate and the parallel rate is estimated to be around 10
percent; (ii) initial steps were taken towards a market-determined interest rate. On January 2, 1995, the
authorities introduced minimum deposit and maximum lending rates (Directive No. NBE/INT 3/94).
These rates have been reviewed and adjusted periodically. Real interest rates were positive for almost all
2



of the period. Also, the TGE introduced treasury bill auctions in early 1995; (iii) the TGE announced a
new salary structure in November 1994 to improve real wage incentives. Public sector salaries were
increased to reduce the wage differentials between the public and private sectors, and the salary
structure was decompressed to attract qualified people to public service; and (iv) restrictions on the
movement of labor were removed.
8.    (b) structural improvements in the fiscalposition:    In order to support private spheres of
economic activity under SAC I, a refocusing of public expenditures, the introduction of appropriate
competition and divestiture policies were emphasized. A number of tax policy reform and other
government revenue enhancement measures were introduced. Under SAC I, the TGE completed several
actions in this area: (i) personal income taxes were revised to correct tax thresholds for inflation, reduce
the number of tax brackets from 17 to 10, and lower the highest marginal tax rate from 85 percent to 50
percent in October 1992, and further to 40 percent in October 1994. To improve its fiscal position, the
TGE eliminated all subsidies (except on fertilizer on a temporary basis). Although the number of tax
brackets were reduced and the top marginal tax rates were lowered from 85 percent to 40 percent, the
revenue to GDP ratio increased rapidly from about 12 percent in FY91 -FY92 to more than 17 percent
in FY95-FY96; (ii) Except coffee, all export taxes were eliminated. In addition, at the time of the
devaluation of the Birr in October 1992, the five percent import levy, used in the past to subsidize
exports, was also abolished; (iii) All export subsidies were ended after the devaluation; (iv) Procedures
were instituted for the centralized budgeting and accounting of counterpart funds; (v) All external grants
started to be channeled through the Budget, rather than through individual Ministry accounts; (vi)
Together with IDA, in April 1993, the TGE initiated a review of public expenditures for the central and
regional governments as a first step in shifting expenditures away from defense expenditures
increasingly towards provision of basic social services (primary education and basic health care) and
economic services (roads, power, and water supply); (vii) Beginning in the FY94 budget, rental income
was included in the definition of income for tax purposes; and (viii) training and administrative
improvements were initiated in the Inland Revenue and the Customs Departments.
Support for the Private Sector
9.     Almost two decades of discrimination under the previous regime and the war had stifled private
sector development. Peace, combined with the TGE's progress in deregulating the economy, provided
the private sector with increased opportunities. As deregulation proceeded, positive measures were
needed to enable it to take advantage of the new opportunities. SAC I supported the initial critical
phase, which consisted of actions in the following areas: (a) increased availability of foreign exchange
for use by the private sector; (b) price decontrol and enhanced role for the private sector; (c)
improvements in the trade regime; and (d) reducing state ownership and operation of assets.
10.   (a) Foreign exchange for the private sector:  Increased private sector activity was bound to
raise foreign exchange needs. Under SAC I, the TGE announced a biweekly foreign exchange auction,
effective May 1, 1993. This auction has been working well as a foreign exchange allocation mechanism
for merchandise imports. Recently foreign exchange was made available weekly. Since July 1995, the
official exchange rate has been set at the marginal rate arising out of the biweekly auction. Since
February 1995, the availability of foreign exchange for current invisible transactions (travel, education
and medical expenses) has been increased, and the need for clearance from the tax authorities for
foreign travel has been eliminated.
3



11.   (b) Price decontrol and private sector's role:  Under SAC I, the TGE formally
eliminated the monopoly power of Agricultural Marketing Corporation, and subsequently dismantled the
Domestic Distribution Corporation and the Import Export Corporation. All retail prices, except
petroleum, have been decontrolled. Coffee plays a significant role in the Ethiopian economy. License
fees (including the annual renewal fees) for engaging in all stages of the coffee processing, marketing,
and exporting chains have been sharply reduced. Specific import and export licenses have been
abolished; private entry into the marketing and export of gum arabic was permitted; and the requirement
that traders be members of a Chamber of Commerce was also eliminated. One-stop investment offices
were introduced in 1994 at the central government level and in some regions. Domestic private
participation in freight forwarding and clearing was allowed, and domestic private banks and private
insurance companies have been established. The new land leasing policy was implemented with the first
urban land auction conducted in January 1995.
12.   (c) Trade reform:    (i) In August 1993 (Proclamation Nos. 67/1993 and 122/1993), the
TGE introduced a new Harmonized Tariff Schedule and substantial tariff reduction that lowered the
simple unweighted average tariff rate from 41 percent to 35 percent; it lowered its maximum tariff rate
from 230 percent to 80 percent and reduced the number of tax exemptions from 327 to 138 items. The
schedule included specific tariffs for only 3 items and 10 ad-valorem rates (9 non-zero rates), compared
with 159 specific duties and 25 ad-valorem rates before the reform. In 1996, the maximum tariff rate
was reduced further to 60 percent with 9 bands (8 non-zero rates); (ii) An Effective Rates of Protection
Study on Ethiopian manufacturing enterprises in 10 sectors was completed in January 1995, which
suggested that effective rates of protection had decreased significantly since the tariff reform in 1993;
(iii) The new sales and tax schedules were enacted in August 1993 (Proclamation No. 68/1993). Sales
tax rates were set at 0, 5, 10 and 12 percent, and ten excise tax rates were set between 0 and 200
percent, compared with a maximum 587 percent before the reform. Both taxes uniformly applied to
both domestic and import products, while before the reform, a 12 percent surtax was applied on
imports. (vi) A duty drawback system was introduced in August 1993 (Proclamation No. 69/1993) for
exporters to accommodate drawbacks of sales taxes paid on domestic purchases of inputs by exporters
and to speed payments. However, because of bureaucratic problems, it did not become fully operative
until late 1996, when the Government proclaimed "A Directive issued to regulate the export trade duty
incentive scheme".
13.   (d) Reducing the state ownership of assets:    The TGE initiated public enterprise reform,
including dismantling and selling of government owned enterprises, and established commercial goals
and autonomous management structures for remaining public enterprises. Classification of all public
enterprises according to their ultimate ownership status was completed in February 1993. A
Privatization Agency has been established and the first stage of the actual privatization has already
started and made substantial progress (para. 22). The TGE developed and issued directives to all
government agencies on a policy and mechanism for the retrenchment of public sector employees. Civil
service reform was a high priority in the TGE's reform program. More han 1200 civil servants have
been retrenched from the Central Government alone.
Fulfillment of Specific Conditionalities
14.   There were two actions that were agreed to be taken before December 31, 1993: (a) Complete
the civil service review agreed in the PFP; and (b) Complete a study and issue Ministerial Directives for
a phased program to sell government-owned houses to the private sector.
4



15.   (a) The review was finally Completed with delay in April 1996; (b) The study on "Transfer of
Government Owned Houses to the Private Sector" was Completed with delay in February 1995, and the
Council of Ministers approved a 15-year program to dispose of 423,050 housing units to the private
sector. Only about 26,000 units owned by the Central Government were found to be in sellable
condition. An Agency ("The Office for the sale of government owned houses") was established to
implement the program in February 1995 (Proclamation No. 112/1995). In August 1996, a follow-up
"Status Report of the Office for the Sale of Government Owned Houses" was issued. The Office now
plans to sell 30 percent of the total sellable Government owned houses in the next five years starting
February 1997.
16.   The conditions for the release of the Second Tranche (para. 4 of Schedule 1 and Schedule 3
of the Development Credit Agreement dated on June 30, 1996) were (1) that IDA be satisfied with the
progress achieved by the borrower in the carrying out of the Program and that the macroeconomic
framework of Ethiopia be consistent with the objectives of the Program (see paras. 6 through 13); and
(2) that the following specific actions be taken: (a) On revenues: (i) corporate and non-corporate profit
taxes be adjusted to improve private sector incentives; and (ii) the coverage of the sales tax be increased
by including more taxable services and changing their structure; (b) The public expenditure review
(PER) be completed, an action plan agreed with IDA to implement its findings in the government budget
of FY95, and a three-year rolling public investment program be introduced; (c) All state-owned retail
shops, and 29 hotels and restaurants be put up for sale; and (d) The size of the negative list be reduced
to liberalize private sector imports further. Specifically, at least the following items would be removed
from the list: items numbers 245, 246, 247, 248, 634, 635, 663, 693, 699, and 893; and (e) A study for
the phased liberalization of the coffee sector be completed, its findings be reviewed with IDA, and an
action plan be agreed with IDA to implement its reconunendations.
17.   (a) The revenue condition was met:    (i) Proclamation No. 107/1994 (October 26, 1994)
lowered the maximum personal income tax rate to 40 percent and established the same rate for
corporate and non-corporate profit taxes. Proclamation No. 108/1994 (November 2, 1994) established
that capital gains would be subject to a tax of 30 percent after netting out an adjustment for inflation.
(ii) Proclamation No. 68/1993 (August 15, 1993) expanded the coverage of the sales tax to 16 types of
services, including consultancy and cinema. Public Notice No. 1/1994 (August 16, 1994) further
expanded the coverage of the sales tax to entertainment and advertisement services.
18.   (b) The PER condition was met:    The FY95 budget incorporated all the specific
measures agreed upon at the completion of the Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 12992-ET,
October 21, 1994, Volume 1, page xxv). The TGE adopted a three-year public investment program
(PIP) as the main instrument for ensuring an appropriate balance between different categories of
expenditure; improving the predictability of resource availability; and improving the selection of
investment projects. The initial phase of this process was to review all the projects included in the
capital budget to ensure consistency with the sectoral strategies. More than one half of the PIP was
appraised before inclusion in the FY95 budget.
19.   (c) The retail and service divestiture condition was substantially met:    The letter from the
Minister of Finance (dated April 25, 1995) confirmed that there were 119 state-owned retail stores, of
which 60 state-owned retail stores had been put up for sale in January/February 1995 by the Ethiopian
Privatization Agency (Bids #001/87, 002/87). The remaining units were either legally contentious or
kept aside as part of the safety net for retrenched workers. The provision of safety nets for retrenched
civil servants was consistent with the SAC I program (Letter of Development Policy, para. 22). In
5



addition, 30 hotels and restaurants were earmarked for sale, of which 24 was put up for sale (Bid
#003/87) and 6 would follow after their legal status is cleared.
20.   (d) The negative list condition was met, exceeding original -targets:  Initially, access to
foreign exchange through the auction system was limited principally to imports regulated by a negative
list. After reducing the negative list for imports every 6 months since Credit approval, the TGE had
proceeded to eliminate it (except for the customs negative list and used materials and used capital goods
and parts thereof) on February 3, 1995, several months ahead of schedule (National Bank of Ethiopia,
Public Announcement No. 25/1995) and on a much broader coverage of elimination.
21.   (e) The coffee liberalization study condition was met:   Under SAC I, the TGE took
substantial measures to liberalize the coffee sector. In particular, the monopoly of the Ethiopian Coffee
Marketing Corporation (ECMC) was abolished, the enterprise was split into two, the fees for coffee
licenses sharply reduced, and private operators allowed virtually free entry to each and every stage of
the coffee processing, marketing and exporting chain. In accordance with the coffee authority, the Bank
carried out a study to take stock of the situation in the coffee sector in early 1995. On that basis, the
TGE agreed with the Bank on an action plan to implement further steps for the liberalization of the
sector (Attachment to the letter from the Minister of Finance dated on April 20, 1995). In particular, the
action plan provided for farmgate prices that are adjustable according to changes in international market
prices; free entry to the establishment of washing stations; a competitive environment in freight
forwarding and clearing of exports; free access for private exporters, who have coffee rejected for
export, to the Addis Ababa market; shifting from the current pre-export price verification process by the
National Bank to a system of post-sale verification; measures to improve quality; and, as Ethiopia's
exports become more diversified, the elimination of the segmentation of the coffee market between
export and domestic sales.
Further Actions Taken Beyond the Program's Specific Targets
22.    Privatization: Substantial progress has been made in the privatization of state-owned retail
stores, hotels and restaurants and other enterprises. As of June 1996, 121 state-owned retails stores and
shops, 22 hotels and restaurants, 25 manufacturing enterprises, and 10 agro-industry and small farms
had been put up for sale. 101 state-owned retail shops, 13 hotels and restaurants, and 17 manufacturing
enterprises were actually sold. This progress exceeds the SAC I program target. In addition, the
Government announced in June 1996 at a National Privatization Workshop held by the Ethiopian
Privatization Agency to elicit recommendations from the private sector on how to increase the pace of
privatization that it will completely sell the remaining retail shops, hotels and restaurants by June 1997.
Furthermore, the Privatization Agency in cooperation with the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia has set up
a scheme whereby "investors interested in buying development enterprises or business institutions" will
be eligible to get loans of up to 7 year-maturity.
23.    Private Sector Development:  In late 1996, revisions of the Investment Code was enacted,
which further liberalized the investment regime as a first step in attracting foreign private investment
into Ethiopia. It permits private domestic investment in telephone equipment and maintenance; allows
joint ventures of foreign investors with Ethiopian private partners in large-scale engineering and
metallurgical industries, capital-intensive and technology-intensive large-scale mining, large-scale
pharmaceutical and fertilizer production, and in activities that supply strategic raw materials to
chemical industries; allows Ethiopian private investors to operate on their own in the above areas; and
allows foreign investment in real estate development and smaller hotels.
6



24.    Liberalization of the Coffee Sector:   As follow-up actions based on the action plan agreed
during the second tranche release mission that visited Ethiopia in March 1995 (para. 21), the
Government: (i) allowed private exporters to sell coffee, rejected for export, to roasters for consumption
in the Addis Ababa market in October 1995 (before the target date stated in the Minister's letter); and
(ii) took steps to ensure that there are no legal, regulatory or other impediments specific to the
establishment of washing stations by private investors. Currently, any private investor can establish
washing stations, and as of June 1996, there are as many as ten of them.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.    Factors not subject to Government control   First of all, as a new authority emerging from
a civil war, the TGE was relatively inexperienced in implementing structural reforms and dealing with
market systems. There were remnants of command and control attitudes within some sections of the
administration, and mutual distrust between the private sector and the bureaucracy. Moreover, the
widespread drought and resulting famine in FY94 affected adversely the macroeconomic performance in
growth and inflation. Fortunately, the surge in international coffee prices during FY95 after the
Brazilian Frost helped the Ethiopian economy recover from the drought. In FY96, although coffee
prices returned to normal levels, supply responses from the coffee sector continued to attain historically
high levels of coffee export volume.
26.    Factors subject to Government control     The Ethiopian authorities have a strong sense
of ownership, and are keen to analyze thoroughly all issues before deciding on a specific course of
action. However, the extensive process of consensus building on all aspects of policy reform, also
resulted in delays in the preparation and implementation of SAC I. A part of the delay in release and
disbursement of the Second Tranche could also have been avoided by appropriate government actions.
T'he SAC I funding was supposed to be used for reimbursing import bills through foreign exchange
auctions, and trade verification through a pre-shipment inspection firm was required. Unfortunately, the
newly appointed government officials after general elections did not extend the contract with the
inspection firm, which delayed disbursement of SAC I for several months.
D.    Sustainability of Achievements
27.    The reform measures helped achieve an appropriate economic environment for initiating the
transition from a centrally planned to a market-based economy after almost two decades of civil war.
Real GDP growth in FY96 was impressive; an estimated 12.4 percent. This reflected both higher
growth in the agricultural sector, helped by favorable rainfalls and increased availability of fertilizer,
and the fact that industry and service sectors continued to grow strongly. Furthermore, the economy's
ability to cope with exogenous shocks has been strengthened. Under continuing reforms, real GDP is
expected to grow at least 6 percent annually in the medium term. To sustain the growth rate, in addition
to stable macroeconomic management, key policy decisions will be necessary to accelerate private
investment. In June 1996, a draft amendment to the Investment Code was ratified by the Ethiopian
Parliament, which further liberalized the investment regime as a first step towards attracting foreign
private investment. More still needs to be done, nevertheless, to increase private and foreign
participation in the economy, as well as making the regulatory structure simpler and more transparent.
Giiven past impressive performance under SAC I and government's intention to further liberalize the
economy to support the private sector development, the achievements which followed SAC I do appear
sustainable.
7



E.    Bank Performance
28.   Identification and Preparation.    Bank performance in the identification of the program
was highly satisfactory and consistent with the Government's policy as well as with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Ethiopia. The SAC I programs were well-focused and emphasized a few key
policy indicators with actions that were monitorable. Moreover, it recognized correctly the limitations of
adjustment lending to act as the "quick" generator of growth as opposed to creating an appropriate
environment for it. The Bank collaborated closely with the TGE and the IMF in the preparation of
policy framework papers which laid the basis for the proposed reforms. The Bank also coordinated
external donors' assistance effectively. However, in the formulation and design of the Second Tranche
conditionalities, Bank's priority was shortening the preparation time to meet the urgent needs of a war-
torn economy rather than lengthy consultation with the Borrower. As a result, the timeframe was too
short for implementation of the conditions given the inexperienced implementing agencies. Nevertheless,
overall assessment of the Bank's preparation was satisfactory.
29.   Supervision and Technical Assistance     The Bank effectively and closely monitored
the implementation of the policy measures proposed in the program and the measures were clearly
articulated and monitorable. Supervision missions were well documented. Additionally, the Bank
demonstrated flexibility in agreeing to two extensions of the credit closing date to take into account
some of the delays in implementation because of the political and economic transition Ethiopia was
going through. Supervision missions were also closely coordinated with the IMF. However, frequent
staff turnover and lack of information transfer to cofinanciers were weak aspects. Since SAC I was the
first quick-disbursing credit to Ethiopia, IDA staff assisted the TGE during the appraisal mission in
establishing appropriate disbursement procedures including the simplification of documentation
requirements. During the appraisal mission, two specialists funded by UK ODA helped formulate tariff
and indirect tax reforms and public sector worker retrenchment schemes.
F.    Borrower Performance
30.   Preparation, Borrower Ownership, and Implementation    Borrower's performance
during credit preparation was satisfactory. The TGE showed its commitment to the stabilization
program and had implemented a significant portion of the agreed actions before the Credit became
effective. In preparation for SAC I, the TGE appointed a SAC I coordinating group consisting of
highest officials and experienced professionals to negotiate the program. The Borrower also coordinated
external donors' assistance effectively. The Government has emphasized the importance of borrower
ownership in designing and implementing the program. The Borrower successfully implemented the
reform program focused on stabilization of the war-torn economy. The decisions and actions agreed in
the Letter of Development Policy were implemented, in general, successfully and timely. Specific
conditionalities were fulfilled although later than originally envisaged (see para. 36). In addition, agreed
studies were not delivered on time.
31.   Procurement and Disbursement      With little experience in procurement under statement
of expenditure, the Borrower tried to follow closely the procurement procedures specified in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). However, there were instances of noncompliance with
covenants. As the audit report covering the period from July 1994 to June 1996 pointed out, documents
pertaining to the selection of suppliers in connection with procurements were not made available for
auditors' verification; a few documents were missing; and some withdrawals were made in respect of
8



goods procured under contract with less than US$ 5,000 equivalent. However, the total amount in
question was only about US$ 0.5 million compared with the total Credit amount of more than US$ 270
million. A careless handling of the preshipment inspection requirements also caused a delay in
disbursement (para. 26).
32.   Audits and Accounts         According to Section 3.03 of the DCA, the Borrower was
required to furnish to IDA a certified copy of audit report not later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year. The first audit report covering FY94 was received by IDA with delay in March 1995. Since
then, the authority did not submit any further audit report to IDA The supervision/completion mission
that visited Ethiopia in June 1996 pointed out the delay and modified the requirement such that the
authority would be required to submit by July 15, 1996 one audit report covering the period from July
1994 to June 1996. The audit report finally came in August 1996. Both audit reports were qualified.
G.    Assessment of Outcomes
33.   Macroeconomic Performance         The improved policy environment and the start in the
rehabilitation of the private sector have had a favorable effect on economic activity. Despite severe
drought in FY94, real GDP grew by more than 7.8 percent per annum during FY93-FY96 compared to
minus 3.4 percent per annum during the pre-program period (FY9 1-FY92). The underlying conditions
for economic growth have begun to show signs of improvement. It is estimated that the investment to
GDP ratio increased from a low of 11 percent prior to the program to more than 20 percent in FY96. A
key force dnving the investment ratio has been the start in the expansion in private sector activities. It is
estimated that the share of non-governmental investment in total investment increased from 17 percent
before the program period to more than 60 percent during FY95-FY96. Exports increased by about 20
percent per annum in real terms during FY93-FY96, in part, no doubt because devaluation brought
many exports back into official channels. The current account deficit (excluding official capital grants)
was on a decreasing trend; from around 8 percent of GDP in FY93 to about 3 percent of GDP in FY95,
inter alia, due to strong coffee exports. However, the deficit increased in FY96 to almost 8 percent of
GDP owing to declining coffee prices. Despite reductions of tax rates, the budget deficit before grants
decreased from around 11 percent of GDP before program to around 8 percent of GDP in FY95-FY96
due to a broadening of tax base.
34.   Social Objectives    A Welfare Monitoring System was established to monitor the social
consequences of its economic reform program and policies and the impact of programs on the poor. A
national household income, consumption and expenditure survey and welfare monitoring survey was
conducted in FY96 for the first time in over a decade. The TGE undertook to reintegrate displaced
people and demobilized soldiers into their communities, and provide training and employment for the
disabled and orphans. In stark contrast to earlier years, timely action by the TGE in FY94 avoided
widespread famine in a year of substantial food production shortfall. A Social Rehabilitation Fund has
been launched to support income-generation and community efforts to improve essential infrastructure
and social assets. In addition, the Government has made substantial shifts in allocations of its budget
from militaiy expenditures towards provision of basic social and economic services. Allocations for
education and health increased from less than 10 percent of the total budget in FY89 to almost 30
percent in FY95, while military expenditures were sharply reduced from 25 percent to less than 8
percent of the total budget during the same period. The Government is also developing detailed
strategies for overall poverty reduction, population management, education, and health, emphasizing
improvements in basic services, and ensuring adequate recurrent expenditures.
9



H.    Future Operations
35.    The Government has expressed the view that it appears unlikely that there will be a need for
quick-disbursing SAC from IDA in the immediate future. Nevertheless, future operations are important
for the sustainability of Ethiopia's adjustment program. While basic macroeconomic performance is
being monitored under the Fund's ESAF program (approved in October 1996), sectoral achievements,
including in particular, successful development of the private sector and progress in the social sector,
depend on the Government's commitment and sector strategies backed by the international community.
Knowing this, the Government has indicated its intention to develop and implement several sector
investment programs on roads, health, and education.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
36.    The following important lessons relevant to similar projects in Ethiopia were learned from the
SAC I operation.
*  Urgent needs for reconstruction vs. preparation time:    In the formulation and design of the
Second Tranche conditionalities, Bank's priority was shortening the preparation time to meet the
urgent needs of a war-tom economy rather than lengthy consultation with the Borrower.
Consequently, IDA and the TGE did not allow sufficient time to implement the conditionalities. As
a result, the timeframe was too tight for full implementation of the conditions especially considering
the inexperience of the implementing agencies. This might have been avoided with more preparation
time. In contrast, urgent needs for reconstruction of the war-torn economy necessitated fast process
and disbursement of the Credit. Such trade-offs need to be tackled in future preparation of similar
projects.
-  Political economy issues and the speed of privatization:   A tradition of mistrust between the
government and the pnvate sector may have also contributed to a part of the delay. In particular, the
TGE supported the private sector, but envisioned a wider role for the public sector. In some cases,
the heavy cost that reform entailed for some interest groups (civil servants, parastatals) also
affected the speed of reform negatively.
*  Institutional capacities to implement and monitor reforms:  During the design period of a
reform, greater attention should be paid to dealing with institutional weaknesses. One of the
important factors for successful implementation of the planned reform measures is to accompany
actions targeted towards continuous strengthening of critical institutions. For instance, in developing
an "operative" import duty drawback system in Ethiopia, the implementing agency encountered skill
shortages that contributed to a good part of the delay in implementation. The Bank should have paid
more attention to providing support and technical assistance for a new Borrower to learn the ropes
on procurement and disbursement procedures.
10



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1:    Summary of Assessments
TABLE 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
TABLE 3:      Project Timetable
TABLE 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
TABLE 5:    Key Indicators for Program Implementation
TABLE 6:    Project Cost and Financing
TABLE 7:      Studies Included in Project
TABLE 8:       Status of Legal Covenants
TABLE 9:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
TABLE 10:   Bank Resources: Mission
11






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial        Partial          Negligible           N/A
Macro policies                   W        X
Sector policies                   X        1Z ]
Financial objectives                               x               I XI|
Institutional development               1    L     X                           L i        I
Physical objectives           II                                               LlX           l
Poverty reduction               -I    1                                      1 X    I      I
Gender issues                                                                  I [ZI Zx
Other social objectives                                        ZI       I              WX
Environmental objectives                                  1                      [Z|XI         |
Public sector management                           x X                            [1j 
Private sector development                         W        XI
Other (specify)                                           1 [              l    [      Xl      |
B. Project sustainability                             Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
W                                 LlliI
Highly
C. Bank performance                                satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                               [jX                                 |
Preparation assistance                                               X              I      I
Appraisal                                                                                l
Supervision                                               1   I      XI                  ll
Highly
D. Borrower performance                             satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                          X              I
Implementation                                                      I                      ]X
Covenant compliance                                                  X 111
Highly                                               Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfacto1y      Satisfactory   Unsatisfact        unsatisfactory
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits 1/
Loan/credit title     Purpose                       Year of                  Status
approval
Preceding operations
ERRP              To help rehabilitate a war-tom  1992   94 percent disbursed; closmg date is 9/30/97
economy and to provide timely
inputs to productive sectors.
Following operations
None
1/ Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related objectives. A limit
of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual)
Steps in project cycle                            Date planned 2/                     latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sununary)                 n.a.                                n a
Preparation                                                 n.a                                 n.a
Appraisal                                                   n.a.                       February 1993
Negotiations                                                na.                        May 6-7, 1993
Letter of development policy                                n.a.                         May 7, 1993
oard presentation                                 June 29, 1993                       June 29, 1993
Signing                                            June 30, 1993                       June 30, 1993
Effectiveness                                  September 28, 1993                       July 15, 1993
First tranche release                          September 28, 1993                       July 15, 1993
Midterm review                                         May 1994                      March 1-9, 1995
Second tranche release                                 July 1994                           May 1995
Project completion (last disbursement)                      n a                        June 11, 1996
Loan closing                                    December 31, 1994                 September 30, 1996
2/ As provided in the Presidents Report
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ thousands)
FY1994                 FY1995                     FY1996
Appraisal estimate               150                    250                         0
Actual                           105                    195                        251
Actual as % of estimate         70%                     78%
Date of final disbursement        -                      -                    June 11, 1996
13



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (1/3)
SAC I Monitorable Actions                                        Timing & Implementation
A.       SupDort For Macroeconomic Stabilization
I Correction of distortions in key prices
(a) Maintain an appropnate macroeconomic framework to promote    Continuous (satisfactory)
stabilization,
(b) Devaluation from Birr 2 07 to Birr 5 per US Dollar; (c) Upward  Completed by May 1993
adjustment in interest rates on deposits and credits, (d) Public sector
salary adjustments to compensate partly for recent real wage
declmes,
(e) The exchange rate will be maintained at an appropriate level to  Continuous (satisfactory)
restore Ethiopia's external competitiveness and minimize smugglmg;
(f) Interest rates will be reviewed at three month intervals to
maintain them at positive real levels for both depositors and
borrowers.
n Structural improvements in the fiscal position
On Revenues
(a) Revise the personal income tax structure, raise the threshold for  Completed by May 1993
taxation, reduce the number of brackets, and lower the highest
marginal tax rate; (b) Except for coffee, drop all export taxes; (c)
Agreement will be reached on the taxation of rental mcome, to begin
in 1993/94, (d) Strengthen the current program of trainig and
admmistrative improvements in the Inland Revenue Authority and
the Customs Authority, and imtiate studies for further
improvements, including the followmig measures. (1) trammg
courses (ii) preparation of work manuals (iii) establishment of
separate departments for tax fraud and crmunal investigation, (e)
Intiate procedures for the centralized budgetmg and accounting of
counterpart funds and require all external grants to be channeled
through the budget
(f) Corporate and noncorporate profits taxes will be reviewed and  By Second Tranche
adjusted to have the same marginal rate of not more than 40 percent,  Completed: See para. 17.
and their base would be broadened to include at least capital gains,
(g) The coverage of sales taxes will be increased by including more
taxable services - all consultancy services, advertising, and
entertamment.
On Expenditures
(a) Eliminate or reduce export subsidies                         Completed by May 1993
(b) Initiate the first round of a public expenditure review by Board  By Second Tranche
Presentation, and once the review is completed, increase the     Completed: See para. 18.
efficiency of public expenditures by implementing its
reconumendations in the government budget of 1994/95 and
mtroducing a three-year rollmg public investment program
December, 1993
(c) Complete the civil service review agreed in the PFP          Completed with delay in April
1996. See para. 15.
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 2/3)
SAC I Monitorable Actions                                        Timing & Implementation
B       SuDport for the Private Sector
I. Reducing the state ownership of assets
December, 1993
(a) A study will be completed and a government decision issued, for  Completed with delay in
a phased program to sell gov't-owned houses to the private sector.  February 1995. See para. 15.
(b) All public enterprises will be categorized according to their  Completed by May 1993
ultimate ownership status
(c) State-owned retail shops, and at least 29 hotels and restaurants  By Second Tranche
will be put up for sale through public announcement              Completed: See para 19.
n1 Price decontrol and competitive conditions.
I Price decontrol will be continued in the following manner: (a) All  Completed by May 1993
manufactured product pnces will be decontrolled with the
exceptions noted below, and the concerned parastatal managers so
notified, (b) The monopoly power of parastatals producing tradable
goods will be ended The pnces of nine tradable goods produced by
de facto monopoly suppliers will be adjusted on the basis of Inport
parity plus an amount up to prevailng duty,
2 The monopoly power of official distnbution and trade           Completed by May 1993
corporations--Domestic Distribution, Export-Import, and
Agricultural Marketing-will be eliminated.
3 A study for the phased liberalization of the coffee sector will be  By Second Tranche
completed, its findigs reviewed with IDA, and agreement will be  Completed: See para. 21.
reached with IDA on an action plan to implement its
recommendations.
I1. Improve private sector access to foreign exchange: Pnvate    Completed by May 1993
sector and parastatal producers will be given access to foreign
exchange, through a mechanism satisfactory to IDA
IV Trade Reform
(a) Complete the classification of lmported items under the      Completed by August 1993
Harmonized System; (b) Convert specific import duties into ad
valorem rates; (c) Review and Implement changes m the standard
rate of sales tax on imports; (d) Implement changes in the tariff
structure by reviewing all "zero" tariffs, applymg a maximum duty
rate of 80% and reducing the number of duty brackets to 10; (e)
Reduce the number of categones of importers who currently receive
import duty exemptions; (f) Indicate m the Letter of Development
Policy a plan for substantially reducmg the level and dispersion of
import duties over an agreed time honzon,
(g) Reduce the size of the negative list to liberalize imports further  By Second Tranche
by elimmating at least the following items numbers 245, 246, 247,  Completed: NBE Public
248, 634, 663, 693, 699 and 893                                  Announcement No. 25/95 (Feb.
1995)
15



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 3/3)
SAC I Monitorable Actions                                         Timing & Implementation
IV Trade Reform (continued)
The removal of current biases against exports will occur through
(a) Streamlimng and broadening the scope of the import duty
drawback system; (b) Identification and removal of specific       Completed by August 1993
marketmg and regulatory constraints on the expansion of exports
V. Retrenchment & Safety Nets
Develop and issue directives to all government agencies on a policy  Completed by May 1993
and mechanism for public sector employee retrenchment.
C.      Groundwork For Next Phase Of Structural Adjustment
I Information systems and institutions required to support
further development of the private sector should be upgraded.
Agreement on action plans for computerization of the core economic  Completed by May 1993
agencies and statistical offices, and for strengthening auditing and
accountmg capacities
ll. Develop sectoral and institutional knowledge to underpin the
design of further structural adjustment measures.
Agreement on terms of reference for the following studies sector  Completed by May 1993
programming and aid coordination; statistical pnonties, financial
sector strategy; and poverty monitonng.
16



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisallredefined               Status        Impact of study
Effective rates of    To review and estimate the level  Completed (Feb. 1995) Reduction of maximum import tariff rate
protection         and dispersion of effective rates of              from 80 percent to 60 percent in 1996,
production ansing from the                        and further to 50 percent in 1997.
current trade policy
Civil service reform  To improve basic aspects of civil  Completed (Apr 1996)        n a
service management
|Sale of Govt Owned To evaluate the status of gov't    Completed (Feb 1995) An Agency ("The Office for the sale of
Houses             owned houses and to plan a                        government owned houses") was
timeframe for selling them.                       established to implement a 15-year
program to dispose of 26,000 sellable
housmg units to the private sector.
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)           ActualAatest estimate (US$ million)
Local    Foreign                            Local       Foreign
Source                         costs       costs       Total                costs         costs      Total
IDA                                0      250 0        250.0                   0         250.7       250.7
Cofimancing institutions           0        n a         n.a                    0           23.8       23 8
Netherlands                      0         n a         n a                    0          10.5        10 5
Sweden (SIDA)                    0         6.5         6.5                    0           6.5        6.5
Switzerland                      0        n.a.         n.a.                   0           6.8        6 8
Other external sources             0        n a.         n.a.                  0            0 0        0 0
Domestic contribution             0         n.a.        n a                    0           0 0         0 0
Total                            0 0      256 5        256.5                  0.0         274.5      274.5
17



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
l                         ~~~~~~~~~Original
Agreement  Covenant  Present fulfillment                 Description of                   Comments
|Section       type      status     date                   covenant
Development Monitonng, covenant continuous Borrower and IDA exchange views on the
l Credit   review anid  complied            progress achueved in carrying out the
|Agreement   reporting    with               Program and actions specified in Schedule 3
l 3.01                                     to the DCA
Development Procurement complied  continuous Except as IDA shall otherwise agree,   The audit report coverng
Credit                  with              procurement of goods to be financed out of FY95 and FY96 pointed
Agreement               partially           the process of the Credit shall be governed  out that some withdrawals
3.02                                     by the provisions of Schedule 2.       were made in respect of
goods procured under
contract with less than
US$ 5,000 equivalent
Development  Accounts/  complied  continuous Borrower shall mamtam or cause to be   See comments on Section
Credit      audits     with               maintamed records and accounts adequate  3 03 (c)
Agreement               partially           to reflect m accordance with consistently
3.03 (a)                                   maintamed sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit
Development Accounts/  complied contmuous/ Borrower shall have the records and      See paragraph 32.
Credit      audits   with after  not later  accounts referred in section 3.03 (a)
Agreement                delay    than six  mcluding those for the Special Account for
3 03 (b)                       months after each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
the end of appropriate auditing principles consistently
each fiscal applied, by independent auditors acceptable
year   to IDA, furnish to IDA a certified copy of
audit report not later than 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year, and furnish to IDA
information as reasonably requested
Development  Accounts/  complied  contmuous For all expenditures with respect to which  The audit report coverng
Credit      audits     with               withdrawals from the Creditor account were FY95 and FY96 ponted
Agreement               partially           made on the basis of SOE, the borrower    out that a few documents
3 03 (c)                                   shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in were missing.
accordance with Section 3 03 (a), records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
retain, until at least one year after IDA has
received the audit report for the fiscal year
im which the last withdrawal from the
Credit account was made, all records
evidencing such expenditures; enable the
IDA's representatives to examine such
records, and ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audits
referred to in Section 3 03 (b) and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted durmig
each fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
DCA        Second   covenant by Second See paragraph 16 for details.
Schedules    Tranche   complied   Tranche
I & 3      Release     with     Release
18



Table 9: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of                             Planned                        Actual
Project cycle                   Weeks           US$            Weeks            US$
Preparation to appraisal                               na              n.a.            43 9          1131
Appraisal, negotiations through Board approval         n a.            n a             35.0          108.5
Supervision/Tranche release                            n a             n.a.            22 4           87 5
Completion                                             n a             n a.            10.9           14 2
Total                                                  n a             n.a.           108 6          319.2
Table 10: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance rating
Stage of         MonthD      Number of  Days in  Specialized  Implementation  Development Sypes of
Project cycle        year      persons      field    staff skills    status        objectives   problems
Through appralsal     Oct /Nov-92      2          12      Economists       n a            na           n a.
Appraisal through     Jan /Feb -93 multi-donor    15     Economists,       n.a.           n a.         n a
Board approval                      mission              disb. officer,
legal officer
Supervision               Deec-93      2          10      Economists        S              S           n.a.
Trnherlase           Mar -95      2          9       Econoinists       S               S          n a.
Supervision/completion     Jun -96     2          9       Economists        S               S          n a
19



APPENDICES
Appendix A    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix B    Cofinanciers' Comments on the ICR
Appendix C    Map of Ethiopia
20






Appendix A
Page 1 of 12
THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
ETHIOPIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC-I)
(CREDIT NO. 2526 ET)
MINISTY OF
FINANCE
ADDIS ABABA
E=IOPIA
" L                U~~~~~~~JNE 1997   !
| i     '                    #l~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Appendix A
Page 2 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMLETION REPORT
ETHTOPIA
STRtUCTT7RAIL AD=STMENT CRED.T  (SAC-I)
(Credit No. 2526 ET)
I. COUNTRY BACRGROND
The Transitional Government of Ethiopia, which was set up in
July 1991 soon after the collapse of the former military
regime,    embarked   upon   a   wide-ranging   reform   and
rehabilitation programmes that mainly focused at transforming
the centrally pla-ned economy into a market oriented economic
system. In view of restructuring the economy, it had
formulated two basic documents that envisaged its economic
goals and strategies. The first one was 'Ethiopia's Economic
Policy During the Transitional Period' formulated in November
1991; and the second, a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the
period 1992/93 - 1994/95 formulated in September 1992 with
the assistance of the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.
In 1991, as an,'initial endeavor to rehabilitate the war-
damaged  economy,  it  had  launched  a multi-donor  financed
Emergency Recovery and Rehabilitation Progra-e (ERRP).
Under this prograamme, which served as a prelude to the
medium-term programme, several basic social and economic
policy changes have taken place.



AivendixA
2                     Page3of12
In  support of the reform progra-e f or the period 1992/93 -
1994/95, the TGE had obtained a loan mounting to US$ 70.0
million   under   Structural   Adjustment   Facility   (SAF)
arrangement of the International Monetary Fund in 1993, as
well  as   US$  250.0 million  Structural Adjustment Credit
(SACI) from the World Bank in June 1993. Furthermore,
Ethiopia was strictly pursuing sound adjustment prograe
and,   therefore,   became   eligible   to   negotiate   debt
rescheduling with the Paris Club Creditors in December 1992.
As a result, debt amounting to about US$ 372.9 million had
been rescheduled.
Regarding macroeconomic developments, encouraging results had
been achieved during the programme period. The real growth
rate of output, which fell by more than 5% in 1991/92, had
increased by 6.2% on the average over the programme period.
Inflation rate, which was 21% in 1991/92, also had declined
to 8.2 % on average over the programme period.  Similarly,
the fiscal deficit and the current account deficit had
declined from 13.2% and 8.0% of GDP in 1991/92 to 3.0% and
5.3% of GDP respectively in 1994/95.
In general, sub$tantial progress has been made with respect
to stabilization and structural reform measures in economic
and social spheres over the progra-e period.



Apendix A
Page 4 of 12
3
I.  DESIGN" AD OBJECTIVES OF SAC-I
The International Development Association (IDA) has approved
the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-I) for Ethiopia
on June 29, 1993, and it became effective on July 15, 1993.
This credit had supported the first structural adjustment
programme that covered the period .1992/93 - 1994/95.   It
amounted  to  SDR  176.5  million  or  US$  250.0  million
equivalent, and had been disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche was equivalent to US$ 150.0 million and was released
upon effectiveness, and was fully disbursed by January 1995.
The second tranchs, which was equivalent to US$ 100.0
million, was released in May 1995, and was fully disbursed by
June 1996. The original closing date, which was December 31,
1994, later was extended to September 30, 1996. It was
necessary to extend the closing date since there was a delay
in disbursement of the second tranche, which in turn was
caused by a shortage of fund for the pre-shipment inspection
firm (SGS). There had also been two supplementary credits
(reflows) amounting to SDR 340,000 and SDR 100,000 approved
on October 5, 1994 and January 17, 1995 respectively. In
addition, the programme was co-financed by Switzerland (SwF
10 m), Sweden (SoK 50 m) and the Netherlands (NLG 20 m).  It
was also supported by other bilateral and multilateral
donors.
The main objectives of SAC-I could be categorized into three
parts:



Appendi A
Page 5 of 12
4
(1) Macroeconomic stabilization,
(2) Private sector development, and
(3) Lay the groundwork for the next phase of
adjustment.
(CM Macroeconomic Stabilization
The measures that would be undertaken with respect to
macroeconomic stabilization' were two: correcting price
distortions and fiscal reform.
Correcting price distortions : Before the implementation
of the reform programme, prices of labour, capital and
foreign  exchange had been highly distorted.    The SAC-I
programme, therefore, contained several measures to correct
the distortions. Among these the devaluation of the currency
from Birr 2.07 per US dollar to Birr 5.0 per US dollar,
upward adjustment of interest rates, increment of public
sector salary by 5% - 110%, have already been completed. In
addition to these,  management of the exchange   rate  to
restore and maintain Ethiopia's external competitiveness and
minimize smuggling; and quarterly review and adjustment of
deposit and loan rates to maintain them at  positive real
levels were proposed in the programe.
Fiscal Reform :  SAC-I also contained measures to improve
the fiscal position of the country. Several actions such as
revision of the personal income tax structure for correcting
tax threshold for inflation, reducing the number of tax



Appndix A
Page 6 of 12
5
brackets from 17 to 9, lowering the highest marginal tax rate
from 89% to 50% and then to 40%, introduction of new taxes,
public expenditure review, etc.. have already been taken and
proved successful. Tn addition, the following measures were
proposed under the programe
- Introduce rental income tax beginning 1993/94.
- Unify the marginal corporate and non-corporate business
income taxes at a rate beldw the personal income tax.
- include capital gains in the estimation of business income.
- Include consulting services, advertising and entertain-ent
in the estimation of sales taxes.
- Initiate the first round of public expenditure review and
introduce a three-year rolling public investment programme.
- Complete the civil service review agreed in the PFP.
(2) Private Sector Development
Forming a dynamic and self-sustaining private sector and
creating a conducive environment for its active participation
in the developmental process is one of the main objectives of
SAC-I. Regarding this, the following measures were proposed.
Privatize all government owned enterprises, retail shops
and hotels and restaurants.
- Liberalize the Foffee sector phase by phase.
- Reduce the negative list of imports by eliminating '13 more
items.
- -hance the availability of foreign exchange for the
private sector.
- Sale state-owned houses to the private sector.



Appendix A
Page 7 of 12
6
(3)  Lay the Groundwork for the Next Phase of    ustment
Since the implementation of the reform programe, several
studies such as privatization and divestiture, civil service
reform, hu-an resource strategy have been conducted.   In
addition, the following studies, which are essential for the
implementation of the next adjustment progra-me for the
period 1996/97 - 1998/99, would be conducted.
- computerization of the core economic agencies and
statistical offices.
- strengthening auditing and accounting functions and
training.
- sector progra-ming and aid coordination.
- statistical priorities.
- financial sector strategy.
- poverty monitoring.
III.  EVALUATION OF ACHIEVMETS
The overall performance of the programme was found to be
satisfactory. Most of the targets have been achieved and in
some cases achievements even exceeded targets.
(1)  Macroeconomic Stabilization
Economic Growth : real growth rate of GDP, which was -5.2%
in   1991/92, has increased to 6.2% on average over the
programme period against the targeted 5.8%.



Appndix A
Page 8 of 12
7
Znfrat4on :  the average annual rate of inflation (CPI) as
measured by the Addis Ababa Retail Price Index has declined
from 21% in 1991/92 to 8.2% on average over the programme
period.
Public  Finance       there  has  also  been  a  considerable
improvement in the fiscal position.of the country.   Total
government revenue (including grants) has increased from
15.3% of GDP in 1991/92 to 18.4% in 1994/95, and government
expenditure as a proportion of GDP has increased from 23.3%
in 1991/92 to 27.1% in 1994/95.  Also due to the increased
revenue  mobilization  effort   and  stringent  expenditure
measures, the overall fiscal balance on cash basis and
including grants has declined from 10% of GDP in 1991/92 to
3% in 1994/95, compared to the targeted 8%. Furthermore,
domestic bank financing of the deficit, which was 8.3% of GDP
in  1991/92,  has  declined  to  -0.4%   at  the  end of  the
programme period, and in early 1995, treasury bill auctions
have been introduced.
External Sector: the external policies during the programe
period focused mainly bn promoting exports, rationalizing the
import tariff.resime and removing cost-price distortions. To
this effect, in October 1992, the currency (Birr) has been
devalued from Birr 2.07 per US dollar to Birr 5.0 per US
dollar; effective May 1993, a biweekly foreign currency
auction has been conducted by the National Bank of Ethiopia;
all export subsidies have been reduced or eliminated; all



AppendixA
8                     Page 9 of 12
export taxes, except on coffee, have been abolished; and
direct price control were almost completely eliminated. As a
result, the gross official foreign reserve, which was only
4.1 weeks of imports in 1991/92, has reached almost 6.5
months of imports in 1994/95 against the targeted 3 months
of imports.  In addition,  the external current   account
balance (excluding public transfers),  which was -8.0%  of
GDP in 1991/92, has declined to -5.3% in 1994/9S, compared
with the programmed 20.9%.
Civil Service Reform: as a result of the systematic
reforming of the civil service, about 15,460 civil servants
had been retrenched till end 1994/95.  Out of these, 6397
were embraced in 5 safety net projects, while some 988 were
transferred  to  federal  and  regional  institutions.  In
addition, about 8075 workers had been laid off with pre-
retirement pension and compensation.
(2) Private Sector Development
Privatization:   Until   April   1995,   the   process   of
privatization had been somewhat slow. However, as at June
1996, out of 130 state-owned retail shops, 30 hotels and
* 
restaurants, and 25   manufacturing enterprises put up for
sale, 101, 13 and 17 were sold respectively. By end June
1997, the remaining enterprises are expected to be disposed
of either through offers for sale, return to previous owners
or closure. In addition, as an endeavor to intensify the pace



ApendixA
Page lOof12
of privatization, investors interested in buying development
enterprises are entitled to get loans up to 7 years maturity.
Liberalization   of   the   coffee   sector:in   view   of
liberalizing the coffee sector, the Government had splitted
the state-owned enterprise that had monopoly power over both
domestic  and  export markets  into , two  :   Coffee Export
Enterprise and Domestic Coffee Purchase and Sales Enterprise.
It had also clarified that floor prices for coffee were
advisory prices for farmers and thus there was no need for
adjusting   floor  prices   since  they  were  below  the
international   price.       Regarding   private   exporters'
participation, they can enter each and every stage of the
coffee processing, marketing and exporting chain.  They are
also allowed to sell coffee rejected for export for
consumption all over the country and establish washing
stations.  Moreover, checkpoints to search for (unofficial)
coffee have been eliminated; and also the Ethiopian Coffee
Authority is training liquorers for the cup-test of dried
coffee.
Sale of State-Owned-Houses : In February 1995 'Office for
the Sale of Government Owned Houses' has been established and
since then it has been preparing the groundwork for the sale
of government-owned houses as well as guidelines and
directives for compensations. In addition, the Council of
Ministers approved a 15-year programme to dispose of 423,050
houses to the private sector, out of which only about 26,000



Appendis A
10                    Page 11 of 12
houses are in sellable condition. The Office thus plans to
sell 30 percent of these houses during the next five years.
(3) Lay the groundwork for the next phase of adjustment
Several policies necessary for the implementation of the next
adjustment programe over the period i996/97-1998/99 have been
designed. These include:-   education policy, health policy,
energy policy, environment policy and road policy.
TV. WORLD BAIR'S CONTRIBUTION
Three supervision/review missions of the Bank had visited the
country in December 1993, March 1995 and June 1996.  There
had also been frequent discussions and contacts made with the
management and staff of the Bank. The Bank' s staff had been
very helpful in expediting the smooth implementation of the
prograime; and without their commitment and diligence the
programme would have never been a success.
V.  CONCLUSION
The overall performance under the First Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC-I) was found to be satisfactory. Efforts made to
restore growth and stabilize the economy and the results thus
obtained were encouraging.   In particular, the targets for



Appendi A
Page 12of 12
real economic growth, inflation rate, and fiscal balance had
been attained. Moreover, the private sector has positively
responded to the new Investment Code. Different studies
concerning institutional reforms are well underway and some
are in the process of implementation.
However,  the government  still has a long way  to go to
alleviate poverty and improve the general welfare of the
society. In addition, the economy being dependent on one
major export item, coffee, is still vulnerable to external
shocks. Moreover, the external debt position is not yet
sustainable and the resource gap is very wide. It is,
therefore, necessary to continue the adjustment programe so
that the already launched reforms come to fruition and
further be strengthened.



Page 1 of 4
Telefax
Federal Office for Foreign Fcunumic Affairs
Bundeshas Ost
3003 Berne
Borne 19.D6.97
O4.131-3240 18 I
Fax   0041-31-32 Us 62                   . Mr. Hyounpuoo Zang
Task Team Leader
Your mf: .                                The World Bank
1K18 H. Street, N W
Our * f.: 3/85-ET- fis. #6485.1           Washington, D. C. 20433
Numbcr of pages: 2                        Fax no.: (001202) 473 82 62
(including covcr AheC)
Draft Implementation Completion Report for the First Structural Adjustnent
Credit for Ethiopia
Dear Sir.
We are Tefeirrng to our fax dated 4.6.97 and are pleased to subnit hcrebelow sone rerarks and
comments regarding the draft implementation completion report for the first structural adjumt
credit for Ethiopia. The Swiss Federal Office for Forcign Econornic Affairs (FOFEA) very uch
wtlcom-es the prcparation of this draft ICR. As a co-financier of this credit we appreciate, and
thank thc Bank for, the opportunity given to us to comment on this draft report.
We wish to express our appreciation for the comprehensive and candid analysis and assessment
presented in the ICR. and %ye endorse the overall satisfactory rating regarding the achievement of
the objetives. the Bank's preparation and pcrformance. as well as the Borrowe's perforancc. In
a constructive spirit. we submit herafter for your consideration a few specific cormients and
remarks on the draft document:
Without any doubt, the strong and effective ownership by the Government of the SAC design and
implementation processes accounts for an important part in the success of the progranme: the
Bank can be congratulated for the constructive partncrship it has succeeded to establish with the
Government during the preparation and implementation of this Credit.
The disbursement of resources under the Credit has been slower than initialy anticipated; this bas
crted somc obvious difHiculties to the Government taking into consideration the urgent and
massive financial needs for the reconstruction of a war-torn economy. This situation reEct on thc



Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
-2-
difficulty to achieve in a post-conflict context. with a single financial instruent. the dual objective
of contributing to the reconstruction process and of pronmting economic reformnadjustnent. This
casm provides - in our opinion - another substantial argunlent for supporting the new approach of
the World Bank on K higher impact adjustment lending v. and in paricular the tranching of the new
adjustment credits into several smaller subcredit lines, with fewer and more specifc conditionalities
for each tranche.
We fully agree with the reconumendation of the ICR that future silar operations should pay
reter attention to the necessary capacity building required for allowing a smooth and effective
imple-mentation of the SAC progranre. This dimension has been understned in fth  SAC
Ethiopia, which could explain partly the actual delays in the disbursement of the funds.
Finally, we would like to point out the delayed submission of audit reports by the Borrower. We
would like to urge the Bank that in future operatioms, it fully enforces the .'&igation of the
Borrower to submit - in time - regular and certified audit reports. The quality oi this controlling
function will contribute directly and significantly to reinforce the confidence of donors in the
capacity and commitment of the Borrower towards improved financial efficiency and
accountability.
We thank you for your kind cooperation and remain,
Yours sincerely,
Development Policy Division
Matthias Meyer
Vice-Director
Copy to:   Swiss Embassy in Addis Abeba. Ethiopia
Swiss Executive Director, The World Bank, Washington
imb, mey, guy, mni, fis. FSU



Ministry of Foreign Affairs
The Haguie                                                          A     ix 1
Page 3 of 4
The Worldbank
attn. Mr. Hyoungsoo Zang
1818 H street N.W.
Washinton D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ref.: mal472/97                             date: 30 May 1997
Dear Mr. Hyoungsoo Zang,
I would like to thank you for sending me the draft Implementation Completion Report for
the First Structural Adjustment Credit for Ethiopia. It was good to learn that according to
the Bank the SAC was a success. I have no further comments on the draft text.
Yours sincerely,
Acting Director Sub-Saharan Africa Departement
J.G. Schouten



*  Sida                                      FAX*                Page 4 of 4
AFRA/OST                                June 5. 1997
Anders Trydell
Tel:  .48 ()S 68985178                  The World Bank
Fwc  +46 (0)8 6985643                   Mr Hyongsoo Zang
E-mail: andevs.trydell@sida.se         Washington 0. C.
Dag Ehrenpreis           20433 U.S.A.
cc. Dag Ehrenpreis                      Fax 202-473-8262
Fax      (46-8-698-5642.. No./Dnr:      REWA-1 996-49  Your ret:    Mr H. Zang
Dear Mr Zang,
Comments on the draft Imolementation Completion Reoort for The First
Structural Adiustment credit for Ethiooia
Thank you for your report captioned above. We have studied the report
and found it to be much in agreement with our own perceptions of the
fairly successful macroeconomic performance of Ethiopia during the
period covered by SAC 1. So we have no objections to your producing the
final documentation on the basis of the draft report.
Yours sincerel>
Anders T n1I
Senior Regional Advisor
Department for Africa



MAP SECTION






34'              363                                40              424              44'               46'               48'
'I0                             RED    0                        ETHIOPIA
- 16                                     /    ERITREA                     S16A
0    SELECTED TOWNS
I,                     '                          |           63   NATIONAL CAPITAL
(                                                                "' "' STATE/REGION (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
j                                                            -\.,  >   \   --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The State/Region names are per Article 47
- 14'        SUDAN                                   TIGRAYW             "'                          of the Constitution of Ethiopia 
MEKELE
_|I    GONDER
0 N            k                         >-r X                              GULF OF
- 12                       /                   LAKE                        AFAR  /                                         ADEN                   1?
I,              ~~~~TANA                              DB        T
AMHARA                          fDJI
BENS>HA9GUk                       ,o     KOMBOLCHA    L4/         jake Abe/
DEBRE
ARKOS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
-10'                                                                                                                                              10' 4<F , X  \    o
NEKEMPTI          ABDDS        L           HARAR  \          x
)  l   O    O      i)  >v   y  GELEMSO
<-.-~-'   ?"'       METU                     7         /              (                                  .                                 8
0                             SSELA                                                                                    .
-82    ': GAMBELLAk 7_ Lake                        0                                                                   -    '
ke   0Lke Ziway                                                                  /
S LL           KOp4EL    OROMIA
. ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 )0 S     ROBE                         SOMALI                     / SOMALIA
The boundaries, colors\,  SEPRA 3  ARBA    AWAA                  R     \                      S                                  SML
denominabons and any                   ARAMINCH L                     )
6' other information shown              MINCH                                                                                                     6' 
on this map do not   '       S            0       aya          -
imply, on the part of    \  0
The World Bank Group,                       Ldke                0ni' "
any judgment on the legal
status  of  any  territory,                    am
or any endorsement                  f\_
or =cceptance of such                                            R
bos .d'ries                                                  D/   KILOMETERS   0                               50    100   150   200   250   300   350   400
I -4t         "L. )AKE KENY,                                      (I-'        '                             MILES 0    50   100   150   200   250         >
_0              34  Lw   tx6  TURKANA '>'                           40'              42'              44'               46'               48'            0'
m0     AN A                                                          0                                                     I









IMAGING
Report No.:         16787
Type:     ICR



