CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2526 ET
Agreement
between
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Dated January 7, 1994


﻿AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2526 ET
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of January 7, 1994, between the KINGDOM OF
SWEDEN (hereinafter referred to as Sweden) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as the Association)
for the administration by the Association of certain funds to be
made available by Sweden to Ethiopia (hereinafter referred to as
Ethiopia).
WHEREAS: (A) Ethiopia has requested the assistance of the
Association and Sweden in the financing of the urgently needed
imports required under Ethiopia's program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of Ethiopia's
economy (the Program) referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement Number 2526-ET dated June 29, 1993, between
Et',iopia and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
(B)   the Association has granted a credit for the purposes
on the terms ai-d conditions set forth in the Development credit
Agreement; and
(C)   Sweden wishes to make available to Ethiopia a grant in
an amount of up to fifty million Swedish Kronor (SKr 50,000,000)
(the Swedish Grant) to assist Ethiopia in carrying out the Program
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
(D)   the Association has agreed to administer the Grant upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a grant
agreement (the Grant Agreement) to be subsequently entered into by
the Association and Ethiopia;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Administration of the Funds
Section 1.01. For the purpose of this Agreement Sweden shall
deposit the grant amount of Swedish Kronor fifty million
(SKr 50,000,000) into the International Development Association's
Cash Account "T" (No. 89501-00225) which is maintained % th the
Sveriges Riksbank (hereinafter referred to as the Trust Account).
When arranging for the deposit, Sweden will instruct Sveriges
Riksbank to advise the World Bank's Cash Management Department as to
the amount received; that it is from Sweden for the Structural
Adjustment Credit in Ethiopia, Project No. 24655, and, the date of


﻿-2-
the deposit. In addition, when arranging for the deposit, Sweden
will also arrange to send a copy of the payment advice to the Office
of the Trust Funds Administrator in the World Bank utilizing fax No.
202-477-3056. The Grant funds in the Trust Account will be kept
separate and apart from the fund-- of the Association and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Grant
funds may be commingled with other trust fund assets maintained in
the Trust Account.
Section 1.02. Sweden hereby appoints the Association as
administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Association to:
(a) disburse the proceeds of the Grant to Ethiopia to finance goods
and services for the Project in accordance with the provisions
hereof and the Grant Agreement; and (b) do any and all such acts and
things as may be necessary or appropriate to fully accomplish the
foregoing.  Disbursements   of  funds  from   the  Trust   Account
attributable to the Grant shall be effected on the basis of
withdrawal applications for expenditures submitted by Ethiopia to
the Association in accordance with the Association's applicable
procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions hereunder as it exercises with
respect to the administration and management of its own affairs and
shall have no further responsibility to Sweden in respect thereof.
Section 1.04. The Association may invest, and reinvest, the
Grant funds held in the Trust Account pending their disbursements.
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of the
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under
this Agreement, the Association may retain for its own accounts the
income from any such investment mentioned above, however, not
exceeding 2 percent of the disbursed amount. The balance of the
income from any such investment exceeding 2 percent of the disbursed
amount shall be credited to a separate account and shall be refunded
to Sweden.
Sect.on 1.05. The administration and enforcement of any
provisions or any agreement entered into between the Association and
Ethiopia will be the responsibility solely of the Association and
will be carried out in accordance with the Association's normal
procedures.


﻿-3-
Section 1.06. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify Sweden of such later date.
ARTICLE II
Records and Accounts
Section 2.01. The Association shall maintain separate records
and ledger accounts of the proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the
Trust Account and furnish Sweden quarterly statements thereon.
Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have
been disbursed from the Trust Account to Ethiopia, the Association
shall cause the records with respect to the Grant to be audited by
the external auditors of the Association and provide Sweden with a
copy of the report of such audit. The cost of such external audit
shall be deducted from the income of any investment or reinvestment
of the Grant funds.
ARTICLE III
Consultation
Section 3.01. The Association will keep Sweden informed of the
progress of activities funded under this Agreement by providing
copies of any monitoring reports and studies. Opportunity to
participate in discussions or workshops arising from the above
activities will be provided in a timely manner to representatives of
Sweden, subject to the consent of Ethiopia.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature by the parties and, subject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until December 31, 1994.
Section 4.02. The arrangement covered by this Agreement may
be terminated by e-4ther party upon three (3) months prior notice
thereof in writing. ;,on such termination, unless the parties hereto
agree on another course of action: (a) any agreement entered into
between the Association, consultants, and/or third parties shall not
be affected by the termination and the Association shall be entitled
to continue withdrawals from the Trust Account in respect of such


﻿agreements as if this arrangement had not been so terminated; and
(b) any balance in the Trust Account shall be returned to Sweden and
the Association's functions pursuant hereto shall be considered
terminated. Promptly after termination, the Association shall
furnish to Sweden a final report and a financial statement of the
Trust Account.
ARTICLE V
Delegation of Powers
Section 5.01. The Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA) shall be competent to represent Sweden for the purpose of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permltted to
be given or made hereunder shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or mail, telephone, telex or rapifax to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address, hereinafter specified or at such other
address as stch party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For Sweden:
Swedish International Development Authority
S-105-25 Stockholm
Sweden
For the Association:
Agriculture and Environment Division
Country Department 2
Africa Region
International Development Association
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /sf Henrik Liljgren
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriainal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


