CREDIT NUMBER 2526-ET
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   0       r        , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2526 ET
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           r     1994, between ETHIOPIA (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit), dated
June 30, 1993, (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of the program referred to in Recital (A)
of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing" of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 340,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (b),
substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (c) and adding
a new Subsection (d) as follows:
"(d) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending
the Development Credit Agreement     (Structural Adjustment
Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, dated June
30, 1993, as amended."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to


﻿-2-
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-six million eight
hundred    forty    thousand    Special    Drawing    Rights
(SDR 176,840,000) (the Credit), which includes an original
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
seventy-six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 176,500,000) (the Initial Financing) and an
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to three
hunded forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 340,000)
(the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (A) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount
"SDR 106,000,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount "SDR
106,340,000".
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"5. After a date twelve months from the date of this
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At
any time after such date, the Association may,-by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessarr governmental action.


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance cf the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been
executed.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ETHIOPIA
By    //                aee    Clr?   t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        LA,       7.aCAe-
Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SE      TARY


