Document of
FILE  0jpy   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2264a-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD LOAN
TO THE
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
June 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distributon and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Bquivaleats
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1 - Naira 0.65
N1 - US$1.54
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN                Central Bank of Nigeria
DMI                Federal Ministry of Industries
ICON               Investment Company of Nigeria Ltd.
NBCI               Nigerian Bank for Comwerce and Industry
NIDB               Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
Fiscal Year
Government: April 1 - March 31
NIDB: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Ltd. (NIDB)
Guarantor:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                 US$60 million, equivalent
Terms:                  Interest on the loan would be at 7.5 percent per
annum. Amortization would be over a maximum
period of 15 years with an adjustable schedule
based on the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of NIDB's subloans.
Relending Terms:        Subloans would be subject to interest of no less
than 10-1/2 percent per annum with maturities of
up to 15 years. Subborrowers would assume the
foreign exchange risk in accordance with NIDB's
nortmal practice. NIDB would charge a commitment
fee of 0.75 percent on the undrawn balance of
ind:ividual subloans.
Project Description:   The project would provide term financing for about
twenity-five industrial enterprises to meet one-third
of total investment costs. Only direct foreign
exchange costs would be financed by IBRD funds.
Based on NIDB's present pipeline of projects, sub-
loa!ns financed under the project are expected to be
in the areas of light manufacturing, construction
materials, agro-allied industries, food and beverages
and hotels. Most are import substitution by nature,
aimed at the local market; a substantial number would
be based on local raw materials. Average subproject
cost is expected to be N5.0 million and average sub-
loan and equity investment by NIDB about N2.1 million.
Estimated Cost and
Financing Plan:                      Total 1/    Foreign    Local    Taxes
----------- (US$ million) -----------
IBRD line of credit                     60.0         60.0         -       ( - )
NIDB domestic resources                 19.1           -        19.1      (2.5)
Entrepreneurs                           58.2          6.5       51.7      (6.5)
Other sources 2/                        42.8         39.7        3.1      (0.3)
Total Project Costs                 180.1        106.2       73.9     (9.3)
1/   Net of taxes.
2/   Includes credit from suppliers and commercial banks
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Free Limit:             US$650,000 equivalent for individual subloans
and an aggregate free limit of US$15 million.
Debt Covenant:          Maximum debt/equity ratio of 4:1.
Rate of Return:         NIDB would agree to calculate economic rates of
return for all subprojects and would use this
economic rate of return as a major consideration
in making investment decisions.
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY      1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
-------TS ~million)------------
Annual       0.5    5.0    16.5   24.0   12.0    2.0
Cumulative  0.5    5.5    22.0   46.0   58.0   60.0
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 1982b-UNI dated May 31, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUT]:VE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED THIRD LOAN
TO THE NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK WITH
THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.        I submit the fol]Lowing report and recommendation on a proposed
third loan to the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) with the
guarantee of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$60.0
million to help finance the foreign exchange cost of subprojects in the
areas of light manufacturing, construction materials, food and beverages,
agro-industries, and hotels. Interest on the loan would be at 7.5 percent
per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to industrial enter-
prises at not less than 10--1/2 percent per annum, with terms of up to 15
years. The proposed loan would be repaid substantially in conformity with
a schedule based on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of NIDB's
subloans, subject to a maxLmum term of 15 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI), dated December 23, 1977, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize
and update the major conclusions of that report. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on the
final stages in its proposed program for a return to civilian rule. The
present military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced in
July 1975, for restoring constitutional Government by October 1979. A Draft
Constitution has been published and elections for Local Government Councils
have been held. Local Government Councils participated in the election of a
Constituent Assembly which has been reviewing the draft constitution and is
expected to produce a final version by October 1978 when the ban on political
activities is expected to be lifted. Subsequently, elections of Federal and
State Legislatures will lead to a complete transfer of political power to
civilians by October 1979.
Recent Economic Trends
4.        Over the past few years, Nigeria's economic development has been
increasingly dominated by the oil sector. A sharp rise in crude oil prices
during the second half of 1973 led to unprecedented liquidity in the
economy in 1974, when the balance of payments surplus amounted to about



- 2 -
US$5 billion and external reserves rose to the then equivalent of two years'
imports. After reaching a peak of almost 2.3 million barrels/day (mbd) in
1974, however, crude oil production began to drop and has since fluctuated
at significantly lower levels. This drop was attributable partly to con-
servation measures and partly to surplus supply conditions on the world
market. In 1977 oil production averaged slightly over 2 mbd. Notwith-
standing this fall in production, the oil sector accounted for an estimated
30 percent of GDP, 93 percent of export earnings and slightly over 80 percent
of total Government revenues in that year, surpassing the agricultural sector
in all measures of relative importance except employment.
5.        In the first two months of 1978 production fell sharply to 1.3 mbd
as a result of new production coming on stream from the North Sea and from
Alaska. The petroleum from these two new sources is directly competitive with
Nigerian production in the world sub-market for light crude oil. From the
present perspective it appears that the market for light crude oil may con-
tinue to be weak for some time in the future and that production in 1978 may
average no more than 1.5 mbd. Such a low level of production has serious
implications for export earnings and cannot but exacerbate Nigeria's already
tight financial constraints.
6.        The level of petroleum revenues has profoundly influenced the fiscal
situation. Within a single year, from 1973/74 to 1974/75, the revenues of the
Federal Government increased by 140 percent, resulting in a rapid expansion
of expenditures in subsequent years. In the four-year period following
1973/74, recurrent expenditures of the Federal Government increased from
N 700 million to N 2,130 million and capital spending from N 530 million
to N 4,910 million. Most remarkable was the expansion of public sector
investment in such traditional areas as transport, communications and power.
As a result of the large expansion of public investment and services, the
economy has grown rapidly at an estimated 7 percent per annum since 1973.
However, investment in the directly productive sectors, particularly agri-
culture, has been lagging and private investment, which led the initial post
civil-war recovery in the early 1970s, appears to have levelled off in recent
years.
7.        So rapid was the expansion of Government expenditures that the
overall budget surplus of 1974/75 gave way to a deficit the following year,
and the Federal Government accounts have remained in deficit since that
time. Neither revenues nor expenditures grew in 1977/78, implying an overall
deficit of N 1,400 million, equal to that of 1976/77. State Governments'
budgets were also in deficit. Until recently, the Federal Government has
been able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances to finance a
large part of the budget deficit and domestic borrowing has provided most
of the additional requirements. Now that the Federal Government's accumu-
lated balances have been significantly depleted, external borrowing is
likely to assume greater importance as a source of finance.
8.        There can be little doubt that the rapid expansion of Federal
Government expenditures has contributed to a high level of inflation in



recent years. Price increases have averaged 26 percent per year for the last
three years with a higher rate in 1975 (33.5 percent) and lower rates (22
percent) for the last two years. The Federal Government has sought to moder-
ate the rate of inflation by price controls, a reduction of import tariffs and
an increase in the allocation of foreign exchange for consumer goods imports.
Price controls have, however, resulted in hoarding and in the development of
secondary markets for scarce goods. The effect of liberal import policies
upon aggregate supply has been reduced by severe port congestion and internal
distributional bottlenecks. Furthermore, the Government is now tightening
import policies in the face of increasing balance of payments constraints.
9.        The Federal Government aims to reduce inflation to about 10 percent in
1978. It is doubtful, however, that this target will be achieved. Under the
current 1978/79 Budget announced on April 1, 1978 the Federal Government
announced its intention to keep expenditure levels at around the same as those
of the previous year. However, because of a lower level of expected revenues,
a deficit of about US$4.5 billion is anticipated. This deficit will only be
contained, however, if it is supplemented by more effective planning and
programming procedures to ensure tighter fiscal controls. Measures have been
incorporated in the 1978/79 Budget to increase internally generated revenues
and to shift responsibility for certain investments (e.g. housing and light
industry) back to the private sector.
10.       The rapid expansion of Government expenditures has also placed heavy
demands on the balance of payments. Commodity imports in 1975 were 120 per-
cent higher than in 1974, reflecting both the sharp rise in domestic expendi-
tures and the higher rate of international inflation. As a result of these
developments, the 1975 balance of payments surplus dropped to about US$250
million. In 1976 commodity imports grew by a further 40 percent and the
overall balance of payments swung into deficit by some US$370 million.
That deficit increased further to an estimated US$1 billion in 1977 and
foreign exchange reserves fell to US$4.3 billion at end-1977 -- barely suf-
ficient to cover 4 months' imports of goods and non-factor services.
11.       The Nigerian economy has clearly experienced considerable strain
during the last two years. Recent developments have demonstrated its vulner-
ability to fluctuations in the international oil market. From the present
perspective it appears thalt the market for light crude oil may be weak for
some time to come and this will further exacerbate an already difficult
balance of payments situatiLon. Moreover, public sector deficits could
frustrate the Federal Government's efforts to reduce inflation. The Federal
Government is currently addressing some of these issues and the situation
will call for careful economic management in the coming years. Recent develop-
ments, however, have not d:iminished in any way the basic growth potential
of the economy.
Development Program and Streategy
12.       Nigeria has an estimated population of about 77 million.  GNP per
capita (around US$380 in 1976) remains low despite Nigeria's position as an



- 4 -
oil-exporting country. Furthermore, available information suggests that
living standards of most Nigerians are lower than the average per capita
income may suggest, particularly in rural areas. In the urban centers, the
average income is many times higher but it is unequally distributed and
environmental conditions are poor. It is against a background of urgent
economic and social needs that the Government formulated its Third National
Development Plan, by far the most ambitious planning effort ever attempted in
Nigeria.
13.       The Third National Development Plan covers the five years from
April 1975 to March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms, was targeted
to be of the order of 9.5 percent per annum and gross capital formation
was projected to increase from 21 percent to over 29 percent of GDP during
the Plan period. The public sector investment program, representing about
two-thirds of projected total investment expenditures in the economy, was
formulated mainly as a means of investing in the non-oil sector such as
agriculture, which is dominant, and creating the necessary infrastructure
for future growth.
14.       The new administration which came to power in July 1975 undertook a
comprehensive review of the Third Plan with the aim of re-ordering priorities
to more closely reflect the realities and aspirations of the nation. Although
the bulk of the public sector's program remained unchanged, some low-priority
projects were eliminated and greater emphasis was given to such areas as
agriculture, housing and health. Due to the revisions, total allocations for
the Plan increased from about US$52 billion to US$70 billion, but administra-
tive and executive capacity constraints to implementation are expected to
limit the amount actually spent during the Plan period to about US$45 billion.
15.       The nominal amounts spent for development during the first two
years of the Plan have not deviated much from those anticipated in the Plan
itself though physical performance has been much lower than anticipated,
mainly because of an initial underestimation of costs and an overestimation
of the availability of expertise. It is now apparent that during the next
few years the budgetary situation will not allow completion of the Plan in
real terms. Consequently the Government is reappraising its investment
priorities for a second time.
16.       Although the investment targets of the Third Plan are overambitious
the underlying development strategy is basically sound. The importance of
agriculture and rural development to future growth is generally recognized.
Equally non-controversial is the potential of the agricultural sector in
terms of land available for future development, the scope for applying known
technologies to raise yields and productivity, and the size of the domestic
market for both food and cash crops. The scope for industrial growth is
also considerable in a country where the entrepreneurial spirit is widespread.
It is clear, however, that the capability of the public sector in terms of
available manpower and institutions is inadequate compared with the needs.
There is, therefore, an important role for external institutions to play
in assisting the Government to improve its capability for project preparation,
appraisal and implementation.



- 5-
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
17.       As of December 31, 1976 total external public and publicly guar-
anteed debt amounted to an estimated US$1,241 million (including undisbursed).
Debt service in 1977 is esitimated at less than 1 percent of gross exports.
Although the Bank Group's share of total external debt (including undisbursed)
at the end of 1976 was estimated at 45 percent, this was evidence more of
Nigeria's low level of external debt than of substantial lending by the Bank.
Nigeria made its first major approach to the international financial market
in 1977 when it negotiated a US$1 billion loan from a syndicated group of
commercial banks. As a result of this borrowing the Bank's share of Nigeria's
total external debt fell from 45 percent to about 26 percent. Bank exposure
in Nigeria during the next decade will depend upon many factors which are dif-
ficult to assess including the progress of project implementation in new areas
of lending. Nevertheless, it is estimated tentatively that debt outstanding
and disbursed by the Bank will fall within the range of 10-15 percent of
Nigeria's total external debt outstanding and disbursed by 1985.
18.       In view of the resource constraint now facing Nigeria (paras. 7-10
above) there will be substantial need for external capital finance during the
next few years. In this respect the financial requirements of the public
investment program are of central importance. During the next five years or
so public sector capital expenditure is tentatively projected to average about
US$9.5 billion annually. Of this amount an average of US$5.25 billion may be
financed from fiscal sources each year. Of the remaining US$4.25 billion
annually, two-thirds may be borrowed domestically and the remaining third may
be borrowed from abroad.
19.       Disbursement from public sector external borrowing would amount to
about US$7 billion over a five-year period. It would constitute, therefore,
by far the largest element: in the overall borrowing needed for balance of
payments purposes (estimated at US$8 billion for the same five-year period).
Beyond 1983 the level of borrowing is expected to decline in real terms as
oil exports improve and the export of liquified natural gas begins. The
Government is aware of the need to structure its borrowing in such a way as
to avoid debt servicing problems in the longer term, and it has expressed
a preference for project-related finance. In the next few years, however, it
may need to rely on non-project financing from commercial banks to mobilize
resources quickly.  On this basis it is projected that the debt service ratio
may reach 18 percent by 1983. It should stabilize thereafter.
20.       During the past four years, Nigeria has been a donor as well as
a recipient of external aid. It increased its subscription to the African
Development Bank and announced that it will no longer seek to borrow from that
institution. It donated US$1.6 million to the Consultative Group for Inter-
national Agricultural Research; contributed US$52 million to the OPEC Special
Fund; contributed two tranches totalling SDR 300 million to the IMF Oil
Facility; pledged SDR 220 million to the "Witteveen Facility"; and increased
its holding of World Bank debt instruments to US$306.2 million, of which
US$66.2 million is in the form of two-year Central Bank bonds. Nigeria's
future role as a donor will be strongly reduced by its present financial
difficulties, however.



- 6 -
21.       Nigeria has a low level of external indebtedness and modest debt
service obligations. Projections point to a manageable debt service ratio
in the medium term even when due account is taken of Nigeria's increasing
external capital requirements. This indicates that Nigeria is creditworthy
for lending on Bank terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
22.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1978 amounted
to US$857.9 million (net of cancellations). IFC had made three loans to
borrowers totalling US$3.6 million and four equity investments totalling
US$2.4 million. Of these amounts, US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled
or sold. The amount of Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed as of March 31,
1978 was US$444.9 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of loans and credits
of US$304.7 million. Transport and power together account for US$408 million,
or somewhat less than 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for US$236
million, about 28 percent (most of which was committed in the last three
fiscal years); and education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan
for the remaining 24 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in
FY76 were about US$70 million, and US$59 million in FY77. Disbursements are
expected to increase substantially during the next two years because of the
rapid drawdown of the remaining highway, port and power loans. Thereafter,
the rate of disbursement on existing loans will reflect the relatively slow
disbursing nature of agriculture. There have been only two IDA credits to
Nigeria for US$35.5 million; both are fully disbursed. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's recently re-stated priorities under
the Third Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and its
policy to use the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the produc-
tive capacity of the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its
population, including the rural poor.
24.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and the
interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, an expanded Bank
lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to lending
in Nigeria, a central objective is to support the Government's own development
strategy by strengthening national institutions which are central to the
country's development effort. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects which benefit some of the very lowest
income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind will continue to figure
prominently in the future lending program. A third objective of Bank lending



- 7 -
is to support Government's efforts to diversify the economy and reduce the
excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal
revenue. Future lending to industry may include more projects of an expli-
citly export-oriented nature. Government has expressed interest in Bank
finance for a major fertilizer project, which would be geared in part to the
export market. Agricultural lending will also include strengthening the
potential for export crops.
25.       The commodity producing sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for Et large share of Bank lending in the coming two
or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in productively related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in power, highway maintenance, ports and water supply.
Project identification work :is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic
support for the commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending for
education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical and
teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
Government's efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
be addressed through a number of urban development projects focussed on the
needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these
lines would be in keeping with the need to generate employment and would
support also the Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues
to ameliorate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
26.       The proposed loan is the first outside the agricultural sector
since 1973. It constitutes the beginning of a more diversified lending
program. Re-establishing the Bank's former relationship with the NIDB is
viewed also as a first step towards a much broader involvement in the
industrial sector. The aim will be to assist Nigeria in establishing a
well balanced industrial structure. In this respect, due weight will be
given to employment objectives as well as to productivity objectives.
Discussions are already under way with respect to a possible small-scale
industry project.
PART III - THE SECTOR
27.       Under the Second and Third Development Plans, a major focus of
Government industrial strategy was on infrastructure investment designed
to ease transport congestion in Lagos and to achieve a better regional dis-
tribution of industry. WhiLe some progress has been made in this direction,
more still needs to be done. A second objective of the Government's indus-
trial strategy has been to place a greater part of the management and owner-
ship of industry in the hands of Nigerian nationals. Considerable headway
has been made with this policy of indigenization. A third objective of
industrial policy has been to diversify industry beyond the petroleum sector
with an emphasis on the production of intermediate goods. This objective has



- 8 -
met with only limited success to date. It would appear that a restructuring
of the system of industrial incentives could assist the Government in its aim
of diversification.
28.       Although the manufacturing sector grew at an annual average rate of
12 percent in the period 1970-1976, the overall contribution of manufacturing
to GDP remains small (8 percent). In terms of output, modern manufacturing
industry plays a leading role. In terms of employment, however, the tradi-
tional sector dominates the manufacturing industry in Nigeria as in many
other African countries. In 1972 the modern sector (establishments employing
10 or more workers) accounted for about 6 percent of the manufacturing work-
force and about half of its output. Small-scale establishments, mostly
traditional, but partly modern in structure, accounted for another 9 percent
of manufacturing employment. The balance of 85 percent of employment takes
place outside formal establishments, in traditional activities. Since 1972
rapid growth in the modern sector has probably increased its share of employ-
ment to about 8 percent, but has not fundamentally changed the sector's
structure.
29.       Net investment in the manufacturing sector increased immediately
after the Civil War, but slowed in 1973 and 1974. The share of net capital
expenditures in manufacturing dropped from 7 percent of gross domestic capital
formation in 1970 to only 3.2 percent in 1974. Although quantitative data
are not yet available, investment probably remained modest in 1975 and 1976.
Three reasons explain the low level of manufacturing investment. First:
Government investment centered on infrastructure as a priority; second, the
program of indigenization discouraged foreign investors; and third, public
funds for manufacturing investment did not compensate for the redirection
of private sector capital from new investment to the purchase of existing
foreign-owned enterprises as part of indigenization. Recent growth in output
is probably the result of improved capacity utilization.
30.       Despite some dispersion of industry to the North, the unbalanced
geographic distribution of industry is a preoccupation of Government. Of
particular concern is the dominance of Lagos State, the concentration of
investment in just two northern states (Kano and Kaduna) and the dearth of
investment in other parts of the north and in the eastern states. The
Government is aware of the need to achieve a better balance in the regional
the regional distribution of industry and is encouraging greater dispersion.
In this context, it is noteworthy that lending by the NIDB has been increas-
ingly diversified in recent years.
Industrial Incentives
31.       Policy tools of the Government which affect industry are trade
restrictions, taxation, price controls, exchange rate control and special
fiscal incentives. Among these tools, trade restrictions, especially pro-
tection from imports, is particularly important. To help understand the
impact of its policies better, Government asked the Bank to supervise a
Government-financed study of industrial incentives and industrial location



- 9 -
in Nigeria. The study was carried out in 1977. Preliminary conclusions
indicate that incentive system paradoxically provide the greatest incentive
to low-priority industries (import-intensive industries) and the smallest
incentives to high-priority industries (primary processing, intermediate and
capital goods). Another major finding was that the present incentive system,
by encouraging imr"rt-intensive activities, reinforces the concentration of
industry in Lagos. The final report of the study will constitute a basis for
Bank discussions with Nigeria concerning incentives.
The Financial System
32.       Nigeria is well served by a variety of financial institutions.  As
of mid-1976, the eighteen commercial banks had combined assets of almost N 3
billion, 80 percent of the assets of the financial community. Insurance
companies and pension funds (15 percent) and development banks (5 percent)
comprised the balance. Commercial banks in Nigeria do very little term
lending except to preferred clients; Nigeria's six merchant banks, however,
are more active. The Federal Government controls directly five financial
intermediaries including the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI),
and the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB). In addition, there are
three State-owned interstate development banks and numerous state institutions
which finance state-sponsored investments as well as small-scale private
investments.
33.       The financial sector and the policies governing it are receiving
close scrutiny, following the 1976 report of the Financial System Review
Committee. The thrust of the Committee's recommendations is to speed
indigenization, to rationalize structures, to achieve greater mobilization
of savings and to assure that funds flow to high priority areas. Most
of the Committee's recommendations were accepted by Government.
34.        A subject of specific concern to the Financial System Review
Committee was the respective roles of NIDB and NBCI. Both provide term
financing to industry and although the NBCI lends also to the service sector
and to commerce, the specific focus of each bank has not always been clear.
To better clarify the situation, the Review Committee recommended: first,
that the two Federal institutions become financial channels ("apex" banks)
to the state banks and; second, that fields of intervention of NIDB and NBCI
be carefully delineated. Specifically, it proposed that NIDB be the apex
institution for lending to medium- and large-scale industrial enterprises
and that NBCI lend to smaller concerns. In practice, however, there may
continue to be some overlap between the two institutions in the middle
ground. As apex institutions, both NIDB and NBCI would be expected to take
a leading role in industrial financing, refinancing and cofinancing with
state banks, and by assisting state banks to develop appropriate training
programs, policies and procedures. Discussions between Government, NIDB
and NBCI are taking place to determine the best way to implement the pro-
posals. The Government has stated that there will be no fundamental changes
in the management or structure of NIDB, however.



- 10 -
Interest Rates
35.       In recent years interest rates have been low in Nigeria reflecting
the general capital surplus situation of the country and the consequent high
liquidity of the financial system. In 1976, Government enforced a reduction
of interest rates from a range of 7-12 percent to 6-9 percent. In 1977 the
range was broadened to 6-11 percent, but interest on loans to productive
sectors retained a ceiling of 8 percent. By the end of 1977 there was strong
upward pressure on rates, reflecting the higher international cost of capital
and reduced levels of domestic liquidity. In the April 1978 budget Government
raised rates in response to these pressures. Lending rates to productive
sectors now range from 9 to 10-1/2 percent. It is clear that the monetary
authorities are responding to the changing financial circumstances of Nigeria.
The process of adjustment is not easy, however, and interest rates are still
well below inflation.
Prospects and Constraints
36.       Immediate prospects for the industrial sector are generally good
although Federal and State Government expenditures will necessarily slow as
a result of new fiscal constraints. Public external borrowings will help
to offset shortfalls in oil revenues, however, and business confidence in
the private sector is high. In the long-term, Nigeria offers the largest
and potentially richest market for manufactured goods in Africa. Firms are
running at near full capacity and the demand for consumer goods and building
materials will continue to be strong. Nevertheless, resources are tight and,
especially in the industrial sector, new procedures must be developed to
ensure proper allocation of available resources. Industrial investment has
not been decentralized to the extent necessary; capital costs per job are
high; and the economic justification of a number of large-scale projects
is questionable. As in many developing countries, inadequate services and
insufficient numbers of managers and skilled workers hamper efforts to
establish a more effective industrial structure.
37.       Government is moving on a number of fronts to cope with these
constraints. Policy changes to stimulate further decentralization and to
provide effective incentives to industry are expected to flow from the Bank-
supervised study of industrial incentives. As far as employment is concerned,
this was not in the past an important policy objective, as unskilled labor was
quickly absorbed in the booming construction sector. However, the pace of new
construction may slow down as the emerging resource constraint makes itself.
Government is aware of the need to develop an employment strategy and has
begun discussions with the Bank on a small-scale enterprise project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       In the context of Nigeria's growing resource constraint industrial
development will depend increasingly upon external finance to supplement



- 11 -
domestic resources. An objective of the proposed Bank loan is to contribute
directly to satisfying the need for external finance. It would also facili-
tate the mobilization of finance from other sources by the NIDB. A second
objective of the proposed project is institution building within NIDB to
improve the financial and economic appraisal of its investments. Since the
two previous Bank loans, the intervening period has reintroduced the need
for further improvements. There has been substantial turnover in staff.
A tenfold increase in the scale of its operations has placed heavy strains
upon previously effective procedures and upon NIDB's staff.
39.       The proposed project was first discussed with the Nigerian authori-
ties in the Fall of 1977. It was appraised in January 1978 and the Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 1982b-.UNI, dated May 31, 1978) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The proposed loan was negotiated in
May 1978. The gestation period of the project was relatively short because
processing was facilitated by virtue of the Bank's previous association with
NIDB.
40.       The Bank has made two previous loans to NIDB:  Loans 588-UNI and
705-UNI of US$6 million and US$10 million, respectively in 1969 and 1970.
NIDB's performance was assessed as part of the Project Performance Audit
Report, dated October 10, 1977. The main objectives of the two loans were
to meet NIDB's foreign exchange needs and to strengthen its institutional
capabilities. Both of these objectives were largely met. Although the time
interval covered by the two loans were short, NIDB's appraisals improved, and
its portfolio became more diversified. The proposed loan would provide the
Bank with an opportunity to re-establish its relationship with NIDB and to
consolidate over a longer period the improvements that were introduced at the
time of the earlier loans.
41.       The proposed project will be to finance about 25 economically, finan-
cially and technically sound investments. Based on NIDB's present pipeline
of projects, the subloans to be financed are typical of NIDB's past operations
and are expected to be in the area of light manufacturing, agro-industries,
construction materials, food and beverages and hotels. Most are import
substitution by nature; a substantial number would involve processing of
local raw materials. Average subproject cost is expected to be N 5.0 million
and average subloan and equity investment by NIDB is about N 2.1 million.
Direct foreign exchange costs are estimated at 75 percent of subloan amounts.
The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Ltd.
42.       The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank was formally constituted
in 1964 as the successor to the largely British-owned Investment Company of
Nigeria Limited (ICON). IF'C assisted in the reconstitution and purchased 25
percent of NIDB's equity. Private foreign shareholders held 49 percent and
the Central Bank another 25, percent. In 1975 Government offered to buy out
all shareholders at par. Most shareholders, including IFC, tendered their
shares; NIDB's present share capital of N 20.7 million is held as follows:
Government 94 percent, Central Bank 5 percent, and private Nigerians 1 per-
cent. With the exception of the two previous World Bank loans to NIDB, NIDB's
resources have exclusively come from Government.



- 12 -
43.       NIDB is the most important development bank in Nigeria, and
accounts for about 40 percent of total development bank assets. Although it
was initially oriented toward the financing of private, mainly foreign-owned,
investments, NIDB's role has changed as a result of its new ownership, the
Government's indigenization policies and direct public participation in the
industrial sector. As the leading development bank in the country, it is
also responsible for assisting development banks in each of the nineteen
states.
Organization, Management and Staff
44.       NIDB's organization comprises four major departments (Investment
Management, Projects, Administration/Finance, and Research and Manpower Devel-
opment). Currently there are two area offices (Kaduna and Aba). Although
NIDB's managing director has been in office for only two years, he is sup-
ported by experienced senior staff, who know development banking well. The
staff totals 210 of which 70 are professionals. NIDB's staff is generally
well trained academically, but full effectiveness has been hampered by under-
staffing and high turnover. The reasons for high staff turnover include poor
recruitment, uncompetitive salaries and inadequate scope for individual ini-
tiative. NIDB is acutely aware of these problems and is attempting to respond
to them. New training and recruitment policies are being implemented, and a
study of compensation will be carried out. (See Section 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement.)
Training
45.       NIDB's present internal training program was interrupted for
several years and restarted in 1977 with two courses. The first is a one
week introductory course given once a year to provide new employees with
a general overview of NIDB's operations and organization. The second
course, on project appraisal, is also offered once a year but plans are
on hand to expand it and offer it more frequently. Recently, a training
manager was appointed from the staff of NIDB and a consultant will soon
be recruited to assist him in structuring a more comprehensive training
program. It is expected that these developments will result in much
better staff training.
Policy Statement
46.       NIDB's policy statement limits its maximum exposure in any one
project to 75 percent of project cost, or N 15 million, whichever is lower.
The N 15 million exposure limit is quite high in view of NIDB's equity base.
NIDB may invest up to 25 percent of its portfolio in Government-controlled
enterprises. All loans must have terms of between 5 and 20 years. It may
not carry foreign exchange risk on its external borrowings. Its present
interest rate is 8 percent per annum. Interest rates are expected to rise as
a result of the Central Bank's proposals, and under this project, NIDB will
be asked to charge at least 10-1/2 percent per annum. (See Section 3.02(b)
of the Loan Agreement.)



- 13 -
Procedures
47.       The quality of NIDB's subproject appraisal is generally good,
although economic rates of return are not always applied. Nevertheless,
present procedures result in some delays. Responsibility between the
Promotion gnd Appraisal Divisions is not clear, and the economic and market-
ing work needs to be better integrated. In addition to matters of internal
organization, NIDB also faces external problems which impede efficient loan
processing. One such problem is the way Government-promoted projects are
handled. NIDB frequently receives requests to finance these projects at
advanced stages when contracts have already been let. In some cases valuable
time is lost in redesigning the project to make it acceptable. Closer col-
laboration between NIDB and1 Government is planned to avoid such problems in
the future. (See Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement.)
Operations and Financial Performance
48.       The level of NIDB's financing operations increased dramatically
from 1972 to 1977. Loan and equity investment approvals amounted to N 73.9
million in 1977 -- up from N 4.1 million in 1972. In 1976, and 1977, the
largest share of NIDB financing by value was in food and beverages (34 per-
cent) followed by chemicals (27 percent, including cement production). State
and Federal Governments had a majority participation in fourteen projects (51
percent of amount) while private Nigerians had majority ownership in twenty-
eight projects (27 percent of amount). The balance represented majority
foreign-owned or mixed firms. The geographical distribution of NIDB's loan
portfolio reflects Lagos' dominant position, although recent approvals are
more decentralized and projects in the pipeline are even more dispersed.
49.       Most investments financed by NIDB loans are for import substitution.
A total of 21,500 jobs were directly related to projects financed in 1976 and
1977. Average cost per job created was US$55,400, ranging from a low of
US$4,600 to a high of US$400,400. The high capital-labor ratios can be ex-
plained by the nature of NIDB's normal investments (large, typically capital-
intensive firms) and the need to invest in captive infrastructure. Moreover,
there has been a tendency to adopt overly-sophisticated technologies. In part
this may be attributable to the fact that, for some time following the 1973
rise in petroleum prices, Nigeria was a capital surplus country. In those
circumstances of relative capital abundance, priorities took a different shape.
As capital becomes more scarce, NIDB will have to pay greater attention to the
question of capital intensity (See para. 3.07(c) of Appraisal Report and Sec-
tion 2.03(a) of the Loan Agreement.)
50.       NIDB's financial position is sound.  Assets reached N 144 million
in 1977, a five-fold increase since 1973. The term debt/equity ratio stood
at about 4.5:1 as of end-1977. NIDB's profitability has been adequate,
if modest, representing a return on average equity of 8 percent in 1977.
Forecast debt service coverage remains at 1.4 percent or better. Provisions
against doubtful loans amount to 2.4 percent of total outstanding loans.
Despite good security, thiLs percentage appears low since there are 30 cases in



- 14 -
arrears by more than twelve months. The percentage of NIDB's portfolio
affected by arrears of more than three months is only 14 percent, a consider-
able improvement since 1973 when the percentage was 41 percent. Notwithstand-
ing this improvement, NIDB has agreed to undertake a full review of all
subloans in arrears by more than twelve months to determine the reasons for
non-recovery and to propose a plan of action to resolve recovery difficulties.
This review would be done by June 30, 1979; its conclusions and implementation
would be reviewed by the Bank. (See para. 3.07(f) of Appraisal Report and
Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement.)
Forecast of Operations
51.       NIDB's lending operations, which grew at an annual compounded rate
of 80 percent from 1972 to 1977, are not likely to grow as rapidly in the
future. Prospects for NIDB are nevertheless encouraging. It has a pipeline
of forty-three projects, thirty of which are sponsored by privat2 promoters,
requiring investment by NIDB of about N 103 million. In addition, there are
twenty-six projects under study that afford the prospect of loans for another
N 106 million. NIDB expects to approve about N 65 million in 1978 increasing
by 15 percent each year thereafter.
52.       As of December 31, 1977 NIDB had an immediate need for almost N 103
million in resources to cover subloans already approved (net of cancella-
tions). The commitment of new approvals from 1978 through June 1980 is pro-
jected at almost N 110 million.  Of the N 213 m41lion total resource needs
estimated for the period through June 1980, some N 23 million will come from
NIDB's internally generated funds. NIDB hopes to finance the remaining N 190
million resource gap from a number of different sources: Government is
expected to provide roughly 35 percent of NIDB's resource needs, a substan-
tial share of which would be as equity; the Bank loan would cover about 20
percent; and other external and domestic borrowings the balance of 45 percent.
NIDB's relationship with international creditors is good and it anticipates
being able to borrow on the Euro-currency market.
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Bank Loan
53.       The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would be applied under the
following terms and conditions:
(a) subloans in the usual areas of NIDB's operations (that is, manu-
facturing, construction materials, food processing and agro-allied
Industries and hotels) would be eligible for refinancing;
(b)  ltank financing would cover 100 percent of direct foreign exchange
>:penditures of individual subloans;
(c} there would be an individual subloan free limit of US$650,000
'N 420,000) and an aggregate free limit of US$15 million (see
Seciior1. '.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).  There would be no
minimum size of subloan but the maximum size would be limited
to 25 percent of NIDB's paid-in share capital and free reserves;



- 15 -
(d) foreign exchange riLsk on subloans would be borne by sub-borrowers.
To reduce potential discrimination among sub-borrowers depending
on the source of foreign exchange, NIDB would seek to spread
external funds among as many sub-borrowers as possible; and
(e) NIDB's onlending rate to clients would be at least 10-1/2 percent
per annum, subject to review in light of market conditions,
inflation rates and the need to assure NIDB an adequate spread
over the cost of ilts new borrowings. NIDB intends to raise its
usual commitment fee to 3/4 percent on the undrawn balance of
individual subloans.
54.       NIDB's debt/equity ratio would be limited to 4:1.  A flexible
amortization schedule would ;apply. The maximum subloan term would be 15
years.
Special Features
55.       To reinforce the project's institutional objectives, agreement
has been reached with NIDB and Government on the following issues:
(a) Economic Analysis. NIDB has agreed to calculate economic rates of
return on all subprojects using a methodology acceptable to the
Bank. NIDB has agreed to use economic rates of return as a major
consideration, in addition to financial and technical viability, in
its investment decision-making. (See Section 2.03(a) of the Loan
Agreement.)
(b) Staff Recruitment. NIDB will focus its recruitment efforts on
staffing the legal, supervision and appraisal departments. NIDB
will also undertake a full comparative review of its compensation
policy relative tco that of similar institutions (commercial and
merchant banks, consulting firms). This study will be carried out
by June 30, 1979; its conclusions and implementation will be
reviewed by the Bank. (See Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.)
(c) Capital Intensity. Government and NIDB are aware that the cost
per job created in NIDB-supported investments has been relatively
high in the past. In many instances, these high costs may have been
justified by the nature of the investment. NIDB's role necessarily
orients it towards capital-intensive industries. It has not custom-
arily analyze capiLtal intensity as part of its subproject appraisal
process. NIDB has agreed to do so for all future subprojects,
however, and the subproject appraisal report would provide adequate
justification for the choice among alternative technologies and
suppliers. The preoject cost per job created will also be subject to
scrutiny. (See Section 2.03(a) of Loan Agreement.)



- 16 -
(d) Coordination with Federal Ministry of Industries. NIDB's involve-
ment in publicly-sponsored projects has necessarily increased its
operational contact with the Federal Ministry of Industries (FMI).
FMI and NIDB would agree to form two working committees. The first
will deal with all projects likely to be financed by NIDB and would
reach agreement on terms of reference for project feasibility
studies, choice of consultants, review of studies and negotiations
with technical partners. A second committee will deal with project
supervision matters after an NIDB loan has been approved. These
committees will be established by December 31, 1978. (See Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement.)
(e) Policy Statement. Although NIDB's policy statement is generally
satisfactory, there are two areas where NIDB will incorporate
improvements. Its exposure limit, which is now set at N 15 million
in any one enterprise, will be fixed in relation to the size of
its capital base (that is, 30 percent of its share capital and
free reserves). Guidelines should also be adopted governing pro-
curement practices specifically requiring international competitive
bidding on large items of procurement. These changes should be
adopted by NIDB's Board of Directors by December 31, 1978. (See
Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement.)
(f) Loan Recovery. As of December 31, 1977, NIDB had 30 subloans in
arrears by more than 12 months. About half of these subloans have
been in arrears over the past several years without substantive
progress in either rejuvenating their operations or recovering
NIDB's loans by legal means. NIDB has agreed to undertake a full
review of all subloans in arrears by more than 12 months to deter-
mine the reasons for non-recovery and to propose a plan of action
to resolve recovery difficulties. This review will be done by
June 30, 1979 and its conclusions and implementation will be
reviewed by the Bank. (See Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement.)
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       NIDB's sub-borrowers generally employ local procurement procedures,
which are acceptable to the World Bank, to ensure that goods and services are
suitable and are reasonably priced. International competitive bidding
procedures will be followed by sub-borrowers, according to the revised policy
statement of NIDB. Requests for disbursement must be fully supported by
invoices and other evidence, following regular DFC practices.
Benefits and Justification
57.       A major project goal is to generate institutional improvements
within NIDB. By reinforcing NIDB's appraisal capability through technical
advice and staff training, the project should upgrade the overall quality
of NIDB's subproject appraisals. The most important project benefit is



- 17 -
likely to be derived from the introduction of economic rate of return analysis
as a major consideration in NIDB's investment decision-making process. It
is anticipated that coordinaLtion between NIDB and the Federal Ministry of
Industry on large public investments will encourage the use of economic rate
of return analysis at the Federal level, and help overcome processing delays.
The strengthening of NIDB as a sound financial intermediary will enable NIDB
to fulfill its role as an apex institution, and to carry out its responsibility
of aiding state-level development banks. Finally, by focusing NIDB's attention
on the question of capital intensity, some improvements in this area can be
expected.
58.       In terms of investments, the project is expected to support 25
subprojects representing in-vestment of N 123 million (US$190 million). Based
on past performance in the modern industrial sector, these investments would
generate annual value-added of N 19 million and create direct employment
for about 3,300 persons. Indirect employment effects, while not measured,
are expected to be considerable especially in construction and agro-allied
areas.
Risks
59.       Administrative shortcomings within NIDB could slow subproject imple-
mentation which, in turn, could result in cost overruns and deterioration of
subproject rates of return. The project aims to overcome these shortcomings
by bringing manpower strengith to an adequate level, improving procedures and
improving coordination with Government. Other possible causes of delays
include congestion in translport facilities, and shortages of skilled manpower
to execute projects. These are factors, largely outside of NIDB's control,
which Government policies aim to overcome. No other significant risk is
envisaged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Nigerian Indus-
trial Development Bank, Ltd., and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Bank, the report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. There is no additional condition of loan effec-
tiveness.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of  4   pages
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                      --------------                           - -----
-----------                                       NIGERIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      923.8                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     445.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           PAKISTAN       GHANA           MEXICO*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     110.0      190.0     380.0                110.0      430.0        690.0
FOPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            51.6       66.2      77.0                59.8          6.6       50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        56.0      72.0       83.0                74.0        36.0        26.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       125.0      152.0      173.0               246.0        63.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          49.3      49.8        49.3               47.6        49.8        43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           !6.9       24.5       22.7               20.1        24.4         10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       2tl7.0         *-     163.0               124.3          ..        68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        S3.5      38.5       41.0                47.4        41.5        62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RAiE                 ..        3.3        3.3                3.7         3.2         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.9       2.5        2.5                 2.9         2.6         3.5
URBAN                                  6.0        5.0       5.0                 4.0         4.5         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           18.0       23.0       26.0               24.8        28.4       5s.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        13.0/a    44.6       45.1                43.4        46.9        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.9 /,    53.0       52.6                52.7        49.5        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.1 /      2.2        2.3                3.9         3.6         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.Uia      0.9        0.9                0.9          1.0         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4/i      1.2/a      1.2/a              1-8/a        1.4        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..       12.9     101.1                  ..        10.9        55.5
USERS (x OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  .         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUJSAND)        1830O.o/a 25600.0  29900.0               18100.0      3300.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          *rf.      67.0       61.0                57.0        54.0/a      45.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..          .                  ..        6.2           .
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
x OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         .                17.8          ..         27.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         .                41.8           .        58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         .                 8.0          ..         3.4
LOWEST  4es OF HCUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        ..                20.2          ..        16.5
DISTRIBUTIDN OF LAND OWNERSHIP
s OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..           .        37.1
s OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ..          .          0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATIDN PER PHYSICIAN            569o0.0/b 24660.0/b 22000-0/b              4310.o/b  12950.0/b   1460.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         7640.0/   5070.0/W  4200.0               8440.0/    1070.0/    162 /.0la
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           2770.0/Tc 2220.0   1700.0ON              1870.0       760.0 -    960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         91.0/d    89.0        88.0                99.0        99.0       105.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.0/          ..     46.3                59.0        46.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.7         ..        9.3                14.0/C      1o,o/c      28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         .          ..                17.4/d        ..         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
P RItMARY SCHOOL                     36.0       34.0       49.0                44.0        61.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       3.0        4.0      10.0                14.0        11.0        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              14.0      14.0        14.0               1c.o/e      15.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       5.0       8.5        3.8/c               2.0        23.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 25.0/e       ..         ..               20.0        25.0         76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 3.0         ..         ..                  ..          ..         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                         ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        61.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  81.0 /f      ..         ..                 ..          ..        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           4.0       23.0      69.0                  ..         78.0      276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0       2.1                  3.0         5.0 .      24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            13.0       28.0       51.0                67.0       338.0      567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.3        0.3                 0.6 /c      0.4         3.2
------------------------ - - - - ------------- - ----- ---------- - ---- - ---------- ---           ---------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REvERsE



- 20 -
Page 2 of 14 Fpes
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate beet-en
1973 and 1976.
M aMibo hab been selented asen objective country because its per capita income in the early 1970's, is about twice Nigeria's projected per capita
income in tho sid-1980's at 1971 prices.  Also Mexico's present level of development is a realistic target for Nigeria through remsinder of thib
century-
NIGERIA      1960    /0  1963;    /b  1962;    /c  Including ax-North Caesroons under British sd=inisitrtio;    /d  1961-63;    /e  Prior to 1965;
/f Lagos only.
1970    it  Rat1o of populetion under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1972;    /c  Certain fields of
study previously cloasified under other second level education of a vocational or technical nature are now
reported under general educration.
PAKISTAN    1970    /.  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;
/c  Includes data for Rangladesh;    /d  Excluding population of D. I. Tan  nd Peh .awr Divielo.a;    /t  Up to matriculstios
(10 grades).
GHANA        1970   /Ia  Icludi-. unemployed;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;    /c  1966-68.
MEXICO       1970    /.  Including assistant nurses;         /b  1964-66;    /c Inside only.
R8, April 18, 1978
DEFII5TIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lund Aceu (thou ko2)                                                                          Population per nursng person - Population divided by number of practicing
Totci - Total ourfuco arna co-priuing land urns and inland waters,                              mlae  nd fele graduate nurses- ,  treined" or "certiffed" nuroe, and
4oic.   M Host recont setinate of agricuiroral area used temporarily or pers-                   auniliary personnel with training or emperience.
rntly for crop, pascorto, isurket & kitches gardens or to lie fallow.                       Population per hospita1 bed - Population divided by number of bospital beds
available in public sod private general ond speialised hospitl and
G8P ncr rople a (VS) - GNP per cspita -etinaten at current  rkte prices,                        rehabilitation centers; e.cludee nuring homes and establis-aents for
colclartd by sane conversion method .s World Renk Atla  (1974-76 basis);                    custodial and preentie coare.
1960; 1970 od 1976 data.                                                                    Per ..pita supply of nalories (2 of renuiremente) - Cosputed from energy
equivslent of net food supplies available in country per capita per d-c;
Pop,loti-n and vital rtatiutic,                                                                 available supplies comprise domeetic production, imports Uses emperte, and
Pyq1l 2y    ldl- narnilliofl  - As of July firct:  if not available, average                    changes in stock; net supplies scluds animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two cod-year e-tiotuso; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                          in food processing and looses in distribution; rsquirementa were estiamted
by FAO based on physiological needs for no-toal *ctivity and health conaid-
Poplutioo dnsiry - per s         kcacs ho - Mid-year population par square kilometer           ering enviroanental tomper-ture, body weights, age and sam ditributions of
(100 hecturso) of total orea,                                                                 population, end alloing  IOY for v-ets at household level.
Pepulation dneitty - per quar be knof anrti  land - Compted as above for                      Per ospita supply of protein (frama per day) - Protein content of per capita
onricoltoral lond only.                                                                       net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as  bon; require-
ments for a11 countries established by USDA Economic Researoh Services
Vitul otutintica                                                                                provide for a minimsa  allowance of 60 greas of total protein per day, ad
C,.de birth rte cnr tbusund, varase - Annual live birth. per thounand of                        20 gras  of anial and pulse protein, of which 10 gra    hould be animal
mid-year popolation; toe-year oritWestic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these atandarda are lower thas thone of 75 gras of total protein
and five-year  average -eding in 1975 for meat recent estiate,                                and 23 grem   of sniml pretein as an average fPr the world, propased by FAO
Crude death rate p.-  thoutand, averog  - onnual deaths per thousand of  id-year                in the Third World Fond Survey.
popnlatioo; tec-yosr arithnetic svereg.s ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein suppei  from  *nil and ples  - Proctte  supply of fod
year average ending in 1975 for meet recent estimate,                                         derived fron animals  nd plses in gra   par dy.
Itfuct nertclitv rte (I/thou) - Annusl deethb  of infants onder ona year of ege               Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age gro-p 1-4
per tho-eond live birthb.                                                                     years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life oopeccenry at birth (yr.) - Average number of yeara of life renminig at                    malnutrition.
bitth; usually five-year averageS ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ino  countries.                                                                            Educe tion
Goo  rp-odctioc rate - Average number of live daughtero a wvns  will beer                     Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 ages as per-
in her nornal reproductive period if  he noperiencee present  ge-specific                    ce.tage of primary school-age population; incladee children aged 6-11 years
fertility  -tot; u-oally five-year av-r-ges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of prim-ry education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                     universal edecation, enrollment may enceed 1002 since asme ppils are below
lopulotion crouth rate (%) - toral - Compound snnual growth rat- of mid-year                    or above the official school  ge.
popolatioo for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrollennt ratio - secondary school - Computed aa above; secondary
population growth rate (%) - urbas - Cempstsd like growth rate of total                         sducation requires at least four years  f approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban cr5a0 may affect sonparability of                  provides gnera 1, vncational or teacher training Ins tructions for pupils
data amoni touncnies                                                                          of 12 to 17 years of sge; correspondence conres are generally e..luded.
Urban populurics ('h of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of ochooling provided (first and second levels) - Ttcal yearc of
definitionas of urban areas mey affect comparability of data omong countries,                 schooling; at .scondary level, vocti.nal in truction mey be partially or
e7platcely axelumdd
Age structure (percen.t) - Children (0-14 years), woking-age (15-44 years),                   Vaatonal Inolsti   facnay      oainlisiuin   nld
and reiroed (65 year- and over)  s parcantagSe of aid-year papulasion.                        techial, induo                       grees  hich  perate indeptdotly e 
Agy dopond-oy ratio - cRio. of population under 11 and 65 end over to those                     deparnaente of secondary institution.
oS agou 15 throgh 64.                                                                       Adult literecy rtet (7,) - Literate adults (able to read  -od colts) as Pe-
icoonic dentudancv ratic - rstio of population ondar 15 and 65 and    r to                      centags  of total adult population  ged 15        t rad ya   o  er.
the .blur forte L. uoe group of 15-64 yesre.
Fanily dlancing - accoptoce (naaulative. then) - Calularive nuseber of acceptors              Hou-ing
of birth-control ,leoicea under suspioa of ostional femily planning progem                  Persons per room (urban) - Average sber of poreans per rtee  in occupied
dccc Ic-eptlon.                                                                               cooventiual dwellings in urban areas; dwellIngs esolode son-peemannt
F emilv clanci   - u-ers  ('/. of -rried wusen) - P-rcentages of married vsmen af               srctures d u... no pied parts.
child-bnring ago (15-44 years) who o-  birth-control devices to all married                   ..sied dwellings  ithout Piped water e v) -   cut pied conventionl dwellings
cuc   nam   go group.                                                                 in orben end taona  arems without inside or outside piped water facilities
aa percentage of .11 occupied dwellings.
E,splc,usot                                                                                   Accs to elactricity ft of all dwellings) - Conventional  dwellings with
Total labor force (toousaod) - Economically active persona, including aemed                     electricity In living quarters as percent af totl dwellings i  urban end
forces and cceoployed but socloding housmaivee, stadenta, eto. ; definition                   rural areas.
in various countrIes ar nor conparable.                                                     fura1 dwellinss con ted to eletricity (%1  - imputed ae  boe for rurs1
Labor force ic acniculcorn (I) - Agricultural labor force (in fa-uing, forsatry,                dweliga nlty.
hinting aud fishing) as percentage of total labor forc..
UnEploved (%7 of lebor force) - Unemployed are ususlly defined as persens who                 Conaumption
are cbhI  and willing to tak   a  job, onut of a Job on a given day, rsained out            Radio reneivr  ferEhoso  - Altype                            f   rd    r
of I Job, and seehing worb for e pecified mini    period not .   seding on                    to ge       p       (per  tbouP)d of  po     on; slude  u censed receiversft.
-ock; cay not be comparable between countries  due to different dafinitions                   in utries and in yers when rogitu-tion of radies  wat.  .s in  aecf tr;
of ounoyzlvyd and sourns of data, e.g., uplymnt offic  sPati            a i                   dnt  for  .esart years ny not he cpa.ra.ble  ince mf - c etrv-  ai       o b edt
..-,vey., comPulsory uno_ploy_asnt in.urance,-                                                licensing.
Paesenger cars feer thou pop) - Paasanger oars comprie mator cars a.atifg
Intonedintr_ibutien  - Percentage of pricter  Encase (botb in cash and kind)                    lesthan eght persona; ecludeas aehulnoss, hoseras esd military
received by richert 5%, richeot 20%, poarast 20%, and poorest 40% of hcuae-                   vehicle.-
holds.                                                                                      Electrinity (kbh/yr par cap) - Annoal consumption  of industrial, cosenrci1l,
nDf  poorert 0% of  znd o n r;                                                               bpublic end privat  elantriity  i  kiloatt hotrs per capita, gsnerally
_Lsribuioc of land ouerehie - P-ctrgse of Soand owned by wealthiest 15%                       base.d onproduction data, without allowace fan Ioa.sa in grids bar allo--
and pooroet 10% of Soand owners.                                                              fog for imports snd soporta of  .leotr icity.
H..lrh -ld N.triti.n                                                                          N1eprint (ktg/yr per cep) - Per capita ansoal cns umption in kiludraam
ealthad NutrItion         e-timtad fromPdpotion divided by nmbsr of prmetig                                     do tic production plus nst imports of newsprint.
phyoicians qualified frop a madioal school at univyrsity lvel.



A
Annex 1
- 21                                Page-3 of pages 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     _                           19 70 -76             9L75            197(
GNP at Market Prices           31302        100.0                         7.4                 3.7             9.4
Gross Domestic Investment      10720         34,2                        21.0                41.6            28.4
Gross National Saving          10515         33.6                        31.0               -17.3            23.0
Current Account Balance         -352         1.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          10541         33.7                        16.6               - 9.0            41.7
Imports of Goods, NFS          10446        33.4                         20.8                36.4            18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Forc                      V. A. Per Worker
US$aMlue Addln.                          %                    Ud            %
Agriculture                    6834        23                   18.3       61                    373          32
Industry                      14907        49                    5.2       17                   2867        283
Services                       8517        28                    5.0       17                   1703        168
Unallocated                                                      1.4        5
Total/Average
30258     100.0                  29.9    l=.                     1012        100.0
GOVEBM4ENT FINANCE
General Goverrment                              Central Government
( N   Mln.)    _ % Of GDP                     (      )fln.)       % of GDP
77T6         1 97 6/7  1974/5-76/77              1976/7      1976/7    1974/5-76/7
Current Receipts                     7500          38.0        37.6                  5630          28.5          28.4
Current Expenditure                  3332          16.9        16.4                  21L32         10.8          lnl
Current Surplus                    -\r558          21.1        21.2                  3497          17.7         18.3
Capital Expenditures                 5713          28.9        23.3                  4913          24.9          19.9
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1971          1972         1973        1974         19           1976
TM-illion N outstanding end period7-
Money and Quasi Money                      1005.4        1161.4      1414.1       2156.3       3622.5      5278.9
Bank credit to Public Sector                531.4        519.0        497.1      -1460.1     -1281.5        199.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector               591.2        750.2        854.4       1070.2      1786.1       2417.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            14.1         15.1         15.9         14.9       21.9         26.7
General Price Index (1960 - 100)            179.1        172.9        203.9        217.0       289.6       352.4
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          15.0         -3.5         17.9          6,3       33.5         21.7
*            Bank credit to Public Sector                 19.4         -2.3         -4.2          n.a.       n.a.         n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                24.0         26.9         12.7         26.6       66.8         35.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices
. Not applicable



-  22 -                                     Annex 1
Pa-ge 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOW3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           9927     8833      10541              Crude Oil                          8658       92.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           4362     8081      10446             Cocoa Products                       337        3.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    5565        -75-        95              Groundnut Products                    15         .2
Palm Products                         67         .7
Interest Payments (net)          -38     -459       -386              Tin                                   30         .3
Workers' Remittances               -         -          _
Other Factor Payments (net)    635        738        690
Net Transfers                     99       122       143               All other commodities               211       2.3
Balance on Current Account    4869         349      -352                     Total                        9318     100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        289      410        387             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 N.A.     N.A.       N.A.                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                  N.A.     N.A.       N.A.
Subtotal                      27        36         -5               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                1241
Capital Grants                    *-       ..         ..               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -325      -504       -362               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 72      -36        -55
Increase in Reserves (+)        4932      255       -387             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)      5748      5930       5599
Net Reserves   (end year)      5722      5909       5520               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         88      162        280
of which:  Petroleum          -        -          -
Exports                       9016      7932      9468
of which:  Petroleum        9016     7932       9468       IBRD/IDA LENDING.  (Nov.30,1977 ) (Million US $)
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                        -
1974:  N1.00  =  US$1.59                                           Outstanding & Disbursed                 401.0      38.4
1975:  Nl.00  =  US$1.62                                           Undisbursed                            243.4          .3
1976:  N1.00  =  US$1.60                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           644.4      38.7
It Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
Not Available
May 1978



A NNEX I I
- 23-                                                Pge 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK GROIUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of Harch 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                           US$ million
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ten loans and two credits fully disbursed                 292.1   35.5
427      1965      Nigeria       Roads                    14.5               2.5
694      1970      Nigeria       Transport                25.0               0.6
764      1971      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                7.2                .0
814      1972      Nigeria       Education                17.3              11.0
838      1972      Nigeria       Roads                    26.3              13.8
847      1972      NEPA          Power                    76.0               2.8
922      1973      NPA           Port                     55.0              24.2
929      1973      Nigeriae      Education                54.0              54.0
1045      1974      Nigeriae      Cocoa Dev.               20.0              12.3
1091      1975      Nigeria       Livestock                21.0              17.8
1092      1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua        29.0               9.3
1099      1975      Nigeria       Agri. Pev. Gusau         19.0               4.2
1103      1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.                17.5              14.6
1164      1975      Nigeriai      Agri. Dev. Gombe         21.0              11.2
1183      1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm   29.5                 28.9
1191      1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm   19.0                 18.5
1192      1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm        17.0              17.0
1454      1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia         27.0              27.0
1455      1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Ayangba    35.0                 35.0
Total                                822.4    35.5    304.7
Of which has been repaid             102.5      1.4
Total outstanding 1/                 715.5    34.1
Amount sold                 16.8
of which has been repaid  15.2         1.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA**  713.9    34.1
Total undisbursed                    304.7      0.0     304.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of larch 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                  Type of          Amount in US$ Million
Year                                   Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.   Textile Mfg.         1.0     0.6       1.6
1970
1964         Nigeria Industrial    Dev. Fin. Co.                1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973          Funtua Cottonseed       Veg. Oil          1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.           Crushing
1974          Lagiagi Sugar           Sugar                     0.1       0.1
Estates
1973         Nigerian Aluminum        Aluminum
Extrusion Ltd.          Processing        1.0     0-3       1.3
Total Gross Commitments                  3.6      2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                     0.3                0.3
Less sold or repaid                    1.6      1.5       3.1
Total t.ommitments now held by IFC        1.7     0.9       2.6
Undisbursed                               0.5     0.1       0.6
**   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
1/   Excluding cancellations of 4.4.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 427-UNI      Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 764-UNI      Western Cocoa Project:  US$7.2 million Loan of
June 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project comprises the construction of secondary schools and
teacher training colleges in the former Eastern Region of Nigeria. Disruptions
caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976 are no longer delaying
the project. While progress is being made in the implementation of the
project in three of the four participating States, the current financial
constraints have affected 8 of the 9 schools in the project in Imo State.
The project should be completed by December 1978, some 36 months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
While the delivery of some items has been delayed and the rural
electrification component has been redefined as a result of additional
studies, the project is expected to be completed in calendar year 1978.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The civil works aLnd procurement of container cranes are expected
to be completed by the end of 1978. Total project costs will be much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
In October 1977 the NPA's 1975 proposals for a revision of the tariff struc-
ture were accepted by the Government and became effective. This major re-
vision will considerably improve the financial situation of the ports. In
addition, the NPA is now up-to-date with the presentation and auditing of
annual accounts.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. The Government has incurred expen-
ditures of US$19.5 million, but has not submitted any withdrawal applica-
tions. Officials responsible at both the State and Federal levels appear
to have neither the organization staff, nor knowledge of Bank withdrawal
procedures which would enaLble them to perform this task. A staff member
from the Controllers' Department visited both State and Federal Officials
to advise on withdrawal procedures. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by as much as a year.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project:  US$7.2 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and mangerial problems, the project is progressing satisfactorily in three of
the four States. The Bendel State component is proceeding unsatisfactorily
because of management/organizational problems and target plantings will be
reduced.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. There are serious problems of counter-
part funding from the Federal Government. Furthermore, the Nigerian Agricul-
tural Bank has not onlent funds to farmers. A Bank project review mission in
October 1977 led to agreement on measures to resolve these problems although
their implementation have yet to be initiated. Further complications have
arisen through resignation of senior project staff because of unsatisfactory
project progress.
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with
excellent farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State
Governments. Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates.
The Federally controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and
Planning Unit financed under this loan is operational. Project costs are in
line with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily.
There are problems relating to the timely procurement of fertilizer supplies,
however.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is very good and the road
building program is being well received. The preparation of a feasibility
study for an expanded second stage to cover the remainder of Bauchi State is
proceeding satisfactorily. Senior management staff are in place and recruit-
ment of local staff is on schedule. Project unit costs are some 25 per above
appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation. Disbursement is proceeding
rapidly. There are problems relating to the timely procurement of fertilizer
supplies, however.
Loan N-  7103-UNI    Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States, land acquisition problems and other operational problems. While most
senior staff niave been recruited, some junior and intermediate level staff
positions remain vacant. The Bank recently withdrew from participation in
the project component located in Cross Rivers State because of acute problems
cf cost  -er-s-   -  inadeq?ate local financial support.  It is planned to
reallocat- t'       ining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States
where physical r-oiect progress is satisfactory.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; CLosing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable
with the demand for inputs exceeding appraisal estimates. The senior management
team is complete, but there has been a problem in recruiting intermediate and
junior staff. The project is also encountering problems related to the timely
provision of local counterpart funds.
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Although project implemen-
tation started satisfactorily, appraisal targets have not been met for the
smallholder component as a result of a combination of financial, technical and
managerial problems. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Ceintral (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new States
and due to intermediate and junior staffing problems. The latter have now
been resolved. However, appraisal targets have not been met and substantial
cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is adequately staffed with key personnel. The smallholder
component is progressing well but appraisal targets are lagging behind although
the final target is likely to be achieved. Problems with estate land acquisition
delayed effectiveness and have not been completely resolved. Furthermore,
the long-term counterpart funding of the estate component is uncertain.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   AyangbaL Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
NIGERIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATE SHEET
Section 1 - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project                      Two months
(b)  Agency which prepared project                     NIDB and IBRD
(c)  First presentation to Bank                         September 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project             November 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission                     January 15, 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations                        May 3, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                      October 15, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III   Special Conditions
1.   Bank financing would cover 100 percent of direct foreign exchange
expenditures of individual subloans (see para 53).
2.   There would be an individual subloan free limit of US$650,000
(N 420,000) and an aggregate free limit of US$15 million (see
para. 53). There would be no minimum size of subloan but the
maximum size would be limited to 25 percent of NIDB's paid-in
share capital and free reserves.
3.   Foreign exchange risk on subloans would be borne by sub-
borrowers (see para. 53).
4.   NIDB's onlending rate to clients would be at least 10-1/2
percent per annum, subject to review in light of market
conditions, inflation rates and the need to assure NIDB an
adequate spread over the cost of its new borrowings. NIDB
would raise its commitment fee to 3/4 percent on the undrawn
balance of individual subloans (see para. 46).



