LOAN NUMBER 2035 TN
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Roads Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2035 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereina t called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agre *
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DOH" means the Department of Highways within the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower;
(b) "TPU" means the Transport Planning Unit within the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower; and
(c) "Sixth Highway Project" means the project carried out
pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated March 23, 1978 (Sixth Highway
Project, Loan No. 1519-TH) between the Borrower and the Bank, as
the same may be amended from time to time and "Prior Loan
Agreement" means such Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Snction 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall:
(1) by June 30, 1982 or such later date as the Bor-
rower and the Bank may agree, select the roads
to be included in Part C (1) of the Project and the
subjects of the transport studies under Part C (2)
of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(2) ensure that no section of road shall bc included
in Fart A of the Project unless its construction
and improvement shall be reasonably expected to
have an internal economic rate of return of not
less than 12% bared on its cost-estimate which
shall have been agreed between the Borrower'and the
Bank on the basis of bid prices therefor.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely, usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly -upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its 'cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
-identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph
(b) and with respect to each of the first two road sections
included in Part A of the Project and expected to yield, among
other economic benefits, benefits of increased agricultural
production, the Borrower shall, starting during its construction
and for four years thereafter, monitor the costs and benefits
of such road section and periodically report the results thereof
to the Bank.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to tti Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project4


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its metabers not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lian shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-6-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, in respect of its national
highway system, continue to implement, and shall, in respect of
its provincial road systems, promptly extend the implementation of
its program of collecting and recording in accordance with appro-
priate statistical methods and procedures, including regular
and systematic traffic counts, such technical, economic and
financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its
national highway and provincial road systems.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly review its regula-
tions on road vehicle weights and dimensions and exchange views
with the Bank on such amendments to the regulations as may be
found required as the result of such review.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) at all times: (i) cause its national highway and pro-
vincial road systems to be maintained and all necessary repairs
thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate routine
and periodic maintenance practices; and (ii) cause its road
maintenance and workshop equipment to be maintained and all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices; and
(b) for the purpose of the foregoing paragraph (a) and
without limitation upon the generality thereof: (i) in respect of
(a) (i) above, make necessary funds available, through annual
budgetary appropriation in amounts satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, for the proper carrying out of such maintenance; and
(ii) in respect of (a) (ii) above, cause DOH to maintain such
separate fund in such manner as shall be required under Section
3.02 (b) of the Prior Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date&4MA /Ae/O;?8F, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINANCE                            82823-MINANCE-TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 22,000,000       48%
(2) Laboratory and traffic         200,000
counting equipment:
(a) Directly imported                       100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Imported and                            65%
procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services        5,500,000       100%
(4) Fellowships                    200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                  7,100,000
TOTAL             35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,


﻿- 10 -
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bink may, by hotice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with thelaforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the, Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of 'the' Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditurec in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is incodsistent -with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the' Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Construction and improvement of about 20 sections
of provincial roads totalling about 600 km.;
kart B:   Provision   of laboratory and       traffic counting
equipment to DOH;
Part C:   (1) Studies and engineering of provincial and rural
roads for preparation of future road projects; and
(2) Transport studies;
Part D:   Provision of technical assistance for: (i) DOH's road
maintenance program referred to in Part B (1) of the
Sixth Highway Project, particularly for the first few
years of operation of a management/financing system for
the maintenance equipment; and (ii) TPU's analyses of
specialized transport subjects; and
Part E:   Training of about 12 staff members of DOH in transport
planning and economics, road maintenance, mechanical
engineering and cost accounting through provision of
fellowships.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1987
through   February 15, 2001                 1,165,000
On August 15, 2001. 1,215,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.60%


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the publication of the Bank entitled "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in. Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of' such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information tb update such 'notice annually
so long as any works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of road construction and improvement, small
road sections shall be grouped geographically and bidders shall be
given the opportunity to bid for such a group of road sections in
addition to bidding for individual road sections.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the


﻿- 15 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Laboratory and traffic counting equipment shall be procured
in accordance with the procedures satisfactory to the Bank, on the
basis of local competitive bidding.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bia and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and all
contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to


﻿- 16 -
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract'shall.not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its,execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies,.of such con-
tract, together with the analysis -of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that, the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract. (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order, and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this           day of        , 198  .
-    tSERETARY


