cw~
FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 134a-NI
APPRAISAL OF
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
NI CARAGUA
April 20, 1973
Urban Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Cordobas (c$ or
C$l = uS$o,1428
US$1 = C$7
UNITS
1 inch = 2.54 centimeters
1 meter = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles
1 square vara = 0.69 square meters = 7.42 square feet
1 manzana = 10,000 square varas = 0.69 hectare = 1.705 acres
1 hectare = 1.45 manzanas = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
BVN        Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua
CACE       Caja Central de Ahorro y Prestamo
FHA        Fomento de Hipotecas Aseguradas
INVI       Instituto Nicaraguense de la Vivienda
INFONAC    Instituto de Fomento Nacional
ENALUF     Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza
DENACAL    Departamento Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarilladas
AGUADORA   Empresa Aguadora de Managua
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NICARAGUA
APPRAISAD OF AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ..........................    i - vii
I. INTRODUCTION ............                                1
II.  BACKGROUND AND THE PROJECT .....    ..................  3
A.  Regional and Urban Growth Patterns ..........       3
B.  Urban Employment, Income Distribution
and  Housing   ..............................   4
C.  Earthquake Damage, Reconstruction Planning
and International Advisory Panel
Recommendations ............                    5
III.  SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT .............. .........  13
A.  Description of Project and Objectives . ......     13
B.  Planning Criteria and Design Standards   ......   14
C.  Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements          16
D.  Executing Agency - Banco de la Vivienda
(INVI  Department)   ........................  20
E.  Socio-Economic Benefits ......    ...............  22
IV.  INDUSTRY FINANCING COMPONENT .....    ................  24
A.   Description of Project and Relocation
Objectives ..................                  24
(i)  Industrial Sites and Services ..........    24
(ii)  Financing for Sub-Projects .............     25
B.  Executing Agency - INFONAC ..................      26
V.  EDUCATION COMPONENT ...........................        29
A.  Earthquake Damage                . . .             29
B.  The Project    .................................   30
(i) Temporary Secondary Schools ............      31
(ii) Permanent Secondary Schools
and Technical Institute ................     31
C.  Executing Agency - Ministry of Education ....      33



TABLE OF CDNTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT . ......................     34
A.  Earthquake Damage ................ .......     34
B.  The  Project   ......... .. ..................  34
C.  Executing Agency - AGUADORA .............      35
VII.  POWER CODMPONENT ......  ........................   38
A.  Earthquake Damage .....   ..................   38
B.  The  Project   ...... .......... .............  38
C.  Executing Agency - ENALUF ....   ...........   40
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................    41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. W. McCulloch (Chief of Mission), J. Balkind, D. Cook (consultant),
A. Harth-Deneke (Consultant), J. Delaplaine (Consultant), D. Koulourianos,
A. Stam, L. Liberman and D. Diaz (Secretary). The mission appraised the
education, sites and services, and industrial financing components in Nicaragua
irom February 6-23. The power and water supply components were appraised by
Messrs. Cavallotti (power), H. Shipman and A. Bruestle (water) in January and
February 1973. Messrs. H. Meier (Division Chief, Programs 1B, Latin America &
Caribbean Region) and D. Strombom (Chief, Division I, Urban Projects Depart-
ment) reviewed the appraisal mission's findings in Managua from February 20-23,
1973.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
BACKGROUND AND THE PROJECT
1    Urban Employment
SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
2    Design Standards, Cost Estimates and Unit Costs
Attributable to Households
3    Executing Agency - Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua (BVN) -
Organization, Operations and Financial Situation
4    Economic Evaluation
5    Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
6    Designs for Leon, Granada, Masaya and Jinotepe
INDUSTRY FINANCING COMPONENT
7    List of Proposed Investments (by City)
8    Decentralization Incentives Under Consideration
9    INFONAC - Organization, Appraisal Procedures and
Financial Situation
EDUCATION COMPONENT
10    Project Costs
11    Implementation Schedule
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
12    Equipment and Materials for Rehabilitation
13    Water Supply Component
1.4   Allocation of Credit
15    AGUADORA Cash Flow
POWER COMPONENT
16    Project Description
17    Project Costs
18    Schedule of Disbursements
19    Sources and Applications of Funds 1973-1974
MAPS
1    Reconstruction Project - Managua Earthquake Destruction and
Sites and Services Project Location
2    Nicaragua






NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The earthquake in Managua on December 23, 1972, damaged some 27 Im 2
of the capital city's total area of 33 km2 (Map 1). Approximately 14 km2 of
the central city were totally destroyed. An estimated 6,000 to 8,000 persons
lost their lives and about 20,000 received substantial injuries. The most
extensive physical losses were in housing where about 45% of the total housing
units were destroyed, in government offices, in community services, partic-
ularly education and hospitals, and in the financial, commercial and small
industry sectors. By contrast, larger scale industry and infrastructure
outside the central district suffered little damage.
ii.       Of Managua's pre-earthquake population of approximately 430,000,
more than 200,000 people fled because of fear, loss of dwellings, and a Gov-
ernment edict to evacuate a large part of the city in order to facilitate
demolition and clearing of the most severely damaged areas. The refugees
spread throughout the country, especially to the secondary cities of Masaya,
Granada, Leon, and Jinotepe-Diriamba, all within 30 to 90 kilometers of
Managua (Map 2). By mid-February, a substantial reflow of refugees, prim-
arily seeking employment, put Managua's daytime population at 300,000 to
325,000. Approximately 75,000 refugees remain in the cities noted above.
Unemployment, already high before the earthquake, has been further increased
by the disaster. However, the impact of the earthquake upon levels of out-
put and employment is, fortunately, less than might have been expected, given
the general magnitude of the destruction, due to the fact that large scale
manufacturing activities were located almost entirely on the edge of the city
and thus were outside the zone of greatest destruction.
iii.      The Bank economic mission evaluated the damage to physical assets
at roughly US$300 million, of which about US$100 million represents equipment,
furnishings and inventories while the other US$200 million represents construc-
tion. Given the magnitude of the damage relative to the size of the Nicaragua
economy, the task of reconstruction is likely to take a minimum of five years,
and even this would require more than doubling the 1971 levels of construc-
tion activity in Managua. Estimates of the earthquake's impact on the fiscal
portion and balance of payments, indicate a manageable situation with the
help of surtaxes and prospective foreign aid.
iv.       A strategy for reconstruction and development following the earth-
quake has not yet been firmly established, let alone detailed plans for im-
plementation. Nevertheless, certain basic considerations appear to be gen-
erally recognized. These are:
-    Although the site of Managua is highly prone to continuing
earthquake risk, no alternative site combining substantially
less risk with reasonably advantageous location has been
identified;



- ii -
The relatively undamaged industry and infrastructure of
Managua represent too much of Nicaragua's productive capacity
to be jettisoned;
-    The small size of the secondary cities -- Leon, the largest
after Managua had less than 60,000 population before the
earthquake -- precludes quick establishment of an alternative
city for Managua;
-    Returning refugees are already starting to rebuild Managua.
It is obvious that the myriad, ad hoc, decisions by those
directly affected by the earthquake cannot be controlled in
detail and comprehensively by the authorities.
v.        In these circumstances, the framework for reconstruction and
development to which the Association's project is related, comprises:
-    restoring remaining productive capacity in Managua to
full operation as quickly as possible;
providing adequate and safe housing, particularly for
returning workers required for the above;
reducing the risk of similar extensive earthquake damage
in the future by:
-    deconcentrating Managua's central district over
a wider area in the vicinity without, at this
stage, foreclosing or prejudging long-range
development options;
improving building standards;
-    supporting decentralization from Managua by
locating housing and industries in the secondary
cities;
-    economizing on resources by making the greatest use of still
existing infrastructure, deferring high-cost structures and
major new transport infrastructure tntil more is known, and
closely relating location of housing and employment.
llTis framework conforms with the recommendations of the International Advisory
Panel on Reconstruction and Redevelopment of the Managua Region which was
jointly sponsored by the IDB, OAS, and IBRD at the request of the Nlicaraguan
Government and whose recommendations are summarized in Part II of the Report.
vi.       Now that relief efforts are phasing out, various lending agencies,
including the Association, are supporting immediate rehabilitation efforts and
expect to make additional reconstruction loans to support longer term programs
once a development plan has been formulated. AID has made a US$3.0 million



- iii -
grant for temporary housing and a US$15 million loan for budget support to
the Government, the proceeds of which will be applied mainly in the primary
school and medical facilities sectors, and to clearing the central zone and
restoring its drainage infrastructure. IDB is processing two loans, one of
$4.2 million for agro-industries and a second emergency loan of US$16 million
for sub-projects in university facilities, telecommunications, small enter-
prise and medium industry, and the construction and building industry sectors.
An existing IDB water and sewerage supply loan has been modified to take into
account immediate reconstruction and redevelopment needs, particularly distri-
bution networks.
vii.      Taking into consideration the programs of other agencies, and exist-
ing links with various agencies in Nicaragua, the Association's project com-
prises components in five fields, complementary to the activities of other
agencies -- low-income sites and services, medium industry, secondary educa-
tion, water supply and power.
viii.     The economic condition of middle and lower income groups was par-
ticularly affected by the extensive destruction to housing and displacement
of cottage industries and tertiary services.  With approximately 32,000 houses
completely destroyed, representing 45% of housing stock in the Managua area
and occupied by almost 200,000 people, the need for shelter for low-income
households is clearly of the highest priority.
ix.       The loss of fixed assets and inventory incurred by industry has been
estimated at between US$20 and US$30 million, not including accounts receiv-
able; small and very small establishments composed the major part of the 810
industries and shops which were destroyed. The US$4 million component for
industry of the IDB loan, which will be handled by the Banco Nacional, will
address needs in the small and medium scale industry including working capi-
tal. There is, however, need for establishing new industrial sites in loca-
tions which accord with the deconcentration policy and are related to the new
housing both in Managua and even more in the secondary cities. There is also
need for support for relocation and expansion of industries in the secondary
cities.
x.        Most of Managua's schools were located in the central city; about
70% of primary and 85% of secondary school capacity was destroyed. The
school buildings that survived are located mainly in the suburbs and need
extensive repairs. At the secondary level about the only public shools still
standing are the two Bank-financed general secondary schools and the teacher-
training college (Escuela Normal), which were recently completed under the
first Bank education project (Loan 532-NI). All three institutions suffered
minor, repairable damage. Private schools, accounting in 1972 for some 40%
of secondary enrollment, were also hard hit and only a few schools in the
outlying areas can be used after extensive repairs.
xi.       Although the earthquake did not extensively affect Managua's pro-
ductive and distributive capacity in power and water, certain facilities were
damaged and required immediate repair; the main effects were substantial
short-term cash flow deficits for the two operating agencies.  The power



- iv -
authority (ENALUF) lost about 38,000 subscribers (almost 70% of the total)
and the water authority (AGUADORA) lost almost 50% of its consumers. Both
authorities lost at least one month's billings and collections will be af-
fected for some time because the incomes of many subscribers were interrupted.
ENALUF's 1973 cash flow deficit is estimated conservatively at approximately
US$5 million and a further deficit is expected for 1974. The total cash flow
deficit of AGUADORA is estimated at US$3.7 million.
Reconstruction Project
xii.      The project comprises five components designed to meet urgent needs
not covered by other lending agency programs. It is also consistent with the
general recommendations of the International Advisory Panel.
xiii.     The sites and services component of the reconstruction project
consists of 6,400 lots comprised of the following items:
(a)  5,900 serviced residential lots complete with sanitary and
shelter core units, located at Managua (2,250), Masaya (850),
Granada (870), Leon (830), Jinotepe (700), and (400) unallo-
cated;
(b)  a pilot program of 500 serviced residential lots in Managua
with sanitary units and a materials fund for self-help housing
but without the shelter core;
(c)  community facilites (primary schools, health centers,
community centers, recreational space, markets) for all
project locations; and
(d)  technical assistance, engineering design, and construc-
tion supervision.
The executing agency for this component of the project would be the national
hiousing bank, Banco de la Vivienda (BVN).
xiv.      The industries component applies to the secondary cities and con-
sists of the following items:
(a) industrial sites and services; and
(b) plant, equipment and buildings for an estimated 30 to 50
medium sized industries.
The executing agency for this component of the project would be the National
Development Bank, Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC).
xv.       The education component of the reconstruction project consists of
the following items:



v -
(a) four temporary, general secondary schools (prefabricated and
expected to be in operation by June 1973);
(b) two permanent, multilateral secondary schools; and
(c) one permanent technical institute.
xvi.      The water supply component consists of the following items:
(a) emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing instal-
lations;
(b) equipment and materials for rehabilitation work; and
(c) some local cost financing of civil works under the
previous Loan 808-NI.
xvii.     The power component consists of the following items:
(a) emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing instal-
lations;
(b) extension of existing distribution network to provisional
housing and expansion of substations; and
(c) primary and secondary distribution facilities, transmission
systems and substations, office buildings, warehouses, work-
shops, vehicles and equipment in ENALUF's 1973-74 work program
throughout the country.
xviii.    The quick implementation components of the project will help meet
priority needs and lend support to a long term strategy of deconcentration
of greater Managua and decentralization among the secondary cities. While
the Managua sites and services are related to the remaining industry and the
substantial reflow of refugees, about half of this project component and
all of the industrial financing are aimed at supporting refugees remaining
in the secondary cities and accelerating the growth rates of these cities.
The larger portion of the power component will apply to parts of the country
other than Managua and by supporting ongoing programs in these areas should
help reduce pressure on the capital city. Both the power and water components
will restore the effectiveness of the autonomous agencies which previous Bank
lending had developed. The education component of necessity applies to
Managua where the secondary capacity was more than 75% destroyed. It is an
innovative project that addresses immediate needs in secondary education by
providing temporary facilities which are movable and can be relocated even-
tually as country schools; the technical institute has frequently been recom-
mended by previous missions and now will help develop the skills necessary
for long-term reconstruction.



- vi -
xix.      The proposed components constitute a balanced and high priority re-
construction effort suitable for an IDA credit of US$20.0 million equivalent,
including $1.5 million of local costs for civil works under the previous water
supply loan (808-NI):
Component                       Total             IDA Credit
Sites and Services               13.0                  8.0
Industrial Financing              5.0                  2.5
Education                         2.9                  2.0
Water Supply                      2.7                  2.5
Power                             6.7                  5.0
TOTAL              US$30.3 million    US$20.0 million
xx.       The total costs of the reconstruction project components are esti-
mated at $30.3 million, of which $16.6 million is the estimated foreign ex-
change component. The counterpart contribution of $10.3 million to the $20.0
million IDA Credit would primarily be financed by the Central Government, in-
cluding the provision of all land; approximately $2 million of the counterpart
for industrial financing would come from INFONAC, and about $1.5 million coun-
terpart would come from the power (ENALUF) and water supply (AGUADORA) entities.
xxi.      Although it is not feasible to calculate the economic rate of
return for the proposed reconstruction project, experience gained in other
countries indicates that the types of works included in the project yield
high economic returns. Because reconstruction experience does not include
sites and services, however, a separate economic justificationi for this com-
ponent is given. Likely rental values for housing generated by the project
would give a rate of return of 13.1% on a total investment of $13.6 million
including land costs and self-help labor, and 14.8% excluding land costs.
Sesides providing housing for 6,400 families, the sites and services project
will have an important effect on employment and the integrated nature of the
project will provide a better physical and social environment.
xxii.     Tne proposed credit would be made to the Government of Nicaragua
which would make available the proceeds to the respective executing agencies
under separate sub-agreements acceptable to the Association. Government will
pass the $8.0 million for sites and services on to BVN on a grant basis. In
addition, the repayments of principal and interest from ENALUF, AGUADORA and
fiNMNAC, together with all mortgage repayments from sites and services bene-
fticiaries, would be channelled into a special fund at BVN for a continuing
low-income sites and services/housing program. Government will repay the
IDA Credit from general revenues. In this respect the proposed reconstruc-
tion credit has a significant income redistribution effect (para 3.24).
xxiii.    All goods and services financed by the Association would be subject
to international competitive bidding except an estimated $1.7 million, due to
the enmergency nature of the repairs, rehabilitation and replacement, and the
$2.5 million of industrial financing as is normally the case with DFC-type



- vii -
operations. An estimated $1.85 million is proposed for retroactive financing
in order to expedite reconstruction.
xxiv.     With agreement reached during negotiations on the conditions sum-
marized for all project components in Section VIII, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$20.0 million equivalent.






NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Nicaragua has requested Bank Group assistance
in financing a reconstruction project because of the severe earthquake of
December 23, 1972 which leveled the central part of the capital city, Managua.
1.02      Immediate priorities after the earthquake were the emergency relief
measures to house, clothe and feed the refugees. While relief efforts were
in progress, Bank missions visited Managua in January 1973 to assess the
earthquake's effects on ongoing projects in the water, power and education
sectors and to determine how best to assist in the reconstruction effort. 1/
In view of the complicated technical, economic and political questions of
how to rebuild, relocate or decentralize Managua, the Bank Group also respond-
ed to General Somoza's request and collaborated with the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank and the Organization of American States in sending a panel of in-
ternational experts to advise on this matter. 2/
1.03      The Panel's report was submitted to the Nicaraguan Government on
March 22, 1973. Its findings and recommendations are built around a basic
proposition: since much of the country's productive capacity remains essen-
tially intact around the destroyed core of Managua and evidence is lacking
that risks of future earthquake damage would be materially reduced by moving
to another location, Managua will probably be reconstructed - albeit on a
quite different pattern. Specifically the Panel recommends a deconcentration
or "thinning out" of the especially risk-prone central city area, and a risk
spreading strategy of decentralization of activities and population to sec-
ondary cities. Discussions of the Panel's report, Government's future plan-
ning efforts and necessary technical and economic analyses are scheduled to
be held in Managua on April 27-28 among Government, OAS, IDB, IBRD and the
Mexican consultants.
1.04      The proposed multisectoral reconstruction project consists of high
priority items that will help: (a) alleviate unemployment and low-cost
1/   Missions dated January 4-5, 1973 - Mr. E. Gutierrez; January 10-12,
1973 - Mr. J. Cavallotti; January 15-19, 1973 - Messrs. A. Bruestle/
H. Shipman; January 15-20, 1973 - Messrs. D. Strombom/W. McCulloch.
2/   Panel Members were:  J. Dyckman (Chief of party), Prof. of Urban and
Regional Planning, Berkeley; N. Ambraseys, Prof. of Earthquake Engineer-
ing, London; R. da Costa, President, National Housing Bank, Brazil;
A. Harrison, Head of Transport Division, Department of Environment,
UK; C. Mendoza, President Foundation of Development, Venezuela; L.
Rodriguez, Urban Planning Consultant, Colombia; P. St. Amand, Seismic
Expert, US Naval Ordnance.



-2-
housing needs; (b) meet the reconstruction requirements in sectors of previous
Bank assistance, i.e. water, power and secondary education; and (c) promote
the recommended deconcentration and decentralization strategies for redevel-
opment.
1.05      This report is based on information supplied by the Government and
the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. W. McCulloch (Chief
of Mission), J. Balkind, D. Cook (consultant), A. Harth-Deneke (consultant),
J. Delaplaine (consultant), D. Koulourianos, A. Stam, L. Liberman and D.
Diaz (secretary). The mission appraised the education, sites and services,
and industrial financing components in Nicaragua from February 6-23. The
power and water supply components were appraised by Messrs. Cavalloti (power),
11. Shipman and A. Bruestle (water) in January and February 1973.  Messrs.
H. Meier (Division Chief, Programs 1B, Latin America & Caribbean Region) and
D. Strombom (Chief, Division I, Urban Projects Department) reviewed the
appraisal mission's findings in Managua from February 20-23, 1973.



- 3 -
II. BACKGROUND AiND THE PROJECT
A.   Regional and Urban Growth Patterns
2.01      Nicaragua, like most developing countries, has experienced rapid
urbanization and its concomitant problems. According to the 1971 census,
48% of the total population of 1.9 million is urban; one-fifth of the popu-
lation and nearly half the urban population lived in Managua which, at the
time of the earthquake had a population of approximately 430,000. Other im-
portant urban centers are Leon, Granada, Masaya, Jinotepe-Diriamba--the refugee
cities, which received the bulk of the refugees who fled from Managua after
the earthquake--Matagalpa and Chinandega. All of these cities are located
in the western region of the country, leaving the Atlantic and central re-
gions with only small settlements and a very sparse population. Nicaragua's
population grew at 2.78% per annum between the census years of 1963 and 1971.
2.02      Population growth in all urban areas outside Managua had not been
particularly dynamic prior to the earthquake and was roughly equal to the
country's net population. growth of about 2.8% per annum between the census
years of 1963 and 1971. Rural population growth had declined to about 1%
annually. In contrast, Managua has been growing at 7% anrually, as shown
below:
Population Growth in Rural and Urban Areas
1971        % Annual Growth
Population      50-63      63-71
(000)
Nicaragua                      1,911            3.0      2.7%
Rural                            995            2.2      1.2
Urban                            916           4.2       4.7
Managua                       405           6.0       7.0
Granada, Masaya, Leon &
Carazo Depts.               233 /1        2.6       3.0
All Other Urban Areas             278           3.5      3.5-
/1   Population of the urban areas of the 5 major municipalities
in the refugee departments was 146,000.
Source: Population Census (1963 and 1971).
2.03      Between 1963 and 1971, Managua grew by 170,000 inhabitants, an
average of 20,000 per year with about 45% of this growth attributable to
migration, mostly from rural areas. Migration was due largely to the heavy
concentration of economic activity and most of the public sector institutions
in and around Managua.



-4-
2.04      The two largest refugee cities, Leon and Granada, were growing
prior to the earthquake at a rate slower than the national rate, indicating
a net out-migration to Managua. They were serving mainly as "holding sta-
tions" for migrants. Population growth in Masaya was somewhat higher be-
cause of the large proportion of commuters who worked in Managua. This was
also true but to a lesser degree for Jinotepe-Diriamba. Urbanization is
even less advanced in the Departments of Chinandega, Rivas or Matagalpa.
B. Urban Employment, Income Distribution and Housing
2.05      Growth of the urban labor force in Managua and the other cities
paralleled developments in their overall population, with three-fourths of
the increase in total urban labor force between 1963 and 1971 occu:ring in
MIanagua. Annex 1 provides details. Total manufacturing employment growth
has slowed down considerably from about 3% annual rate between 1950 and 1963
to 1% between 1963 and 1971 reflecting productivity gains as organized indus-
try has replaced artisan labor. In Managua, the percentage of the total labor
force in manufacturing (20%) is relatively low despite the concentration of
manufacturing in this city, because of the great concentration of central
government employment, financial and trade services and such activities as
construction.
2.06      In 1971, ILO found that urban workers earn on the average 50% more
than rural workers in Nicaragua. Urban employment in the poorer sectors of
Managua, however, was substantial, with about a third of those seeking emiploy-
ment unable to find jobs; half had been unemployed for more than 12 weeks.
The resulting income distribution is quite skewed. In 1972 the Central Bank
completed a family budget study for Managua showing that two-fifths of the
families had monthly incomes of no more than 1,000 cordobas ($142.8).  The
following indicates income distribution in Managua before the earthquake:
Income Distribution in Manaaua
Cordobas                     US$                  %             %
pfer nsnth                per month          Families       Cumulative
Up to  500           Up to  71.4            14.7            14.7
501  -1 - 1,000      71.6 - 142.8            26.5           41.2
I,001 - 1,500         143.0 - 214.3            16.9           58.1
1,501 - 2,000         214.4 - 285.7            16.7            74.8
001   ? ,500         285.8 - 357.1             6.7           81.5
3,000         357.1 - 428.6             4.8           86.3
3 Y)1 and more        428.7 and more           13.7           100.0
Source:  Central Bank, Household Survey, 1972.
2.07      About 80% of the refugee families had monthly incomes below ¢1,100
(US$157). Because of the destruction of much of their economic base, e.g.
cottage industry, shops and restaurants, it is likely that the skewness of
the income distribution will be more extreme. Households earning between



- 5 -
0300 and 0500 per month, with an average of 0423, spend 23.7% of their income,
i.e. 0100, on housing. Those earning between 0501 and 01,000 per month, with
an average of 0736, spend on the average 0145 on housing, or 19.7% of their
incomes.
2.08      The rapid urbanization of Managua resulted in a proliferation of
substandard housing. According to the 1971 census over a quarter of the
housing units in the city were makeshift houses or rooms in cuarterias. the
latter are old houses containing many rooms, each of which are rented as
housing units but sharing toilets and wash basins. Such rooms average about
20 sq meters and monthly rent before the earthquake ranged from 050 to 0150
depending, to a large extent, on the distance from the downtown area. As
a result of the lack of adequate housing, most of the new migrants either
doubled up with relative or friends in the cuarterias or moved into make-
shift and very crowded houses---4.8 people per room--in the southeastern
and western fringes of the city. Over half of the houses in these neigh-
borhoods have dirt floors and two-thirds have only one bedroom. Streets
are generally unpaved; there are no sidewalks and, in some areas, water is
sold only by the barrel. Land rental values in these marginal neighborhoods
vary from 040 (US$5.7) per month with no running water, sewerage or power
to about e100 (US$14.3) for the standard 210 sq meter lot. Distance from
downtown varies between 3 and 7 kms; there is bus service to most of these
areas charging 5.7 US cents per trip.
C.   Earthquake Damage, Reconstruction Planning and
International Advisory Panel Recommendations
2.09      A memorandum entitled "The Effects of the December 23, 1972 Earth-
quake Upon the Economic Position and Prospects of Nicaragua" is being sub-
mitted separately to the Excecutive Directors. The conclusions of that
Report, based on the findings of an economic mission to Managua in February,
are summarized below.
2.10      The earthquake destroyed or rendered unusable practically all of
the central zone of the city including most government offices, the important
financial and commercial sections and perhaps 2,500 shops engaged in small-
scale manufacturing. About 32,000 housing units, i.e. about 45% of the hous-
ing in the Managua area, were destroyed. The value of the physical assets
destroyed by the earthquake is estimated at $300 million, (assumes that the
capital's remaining infrastructure will not have to be replaced due to re-
location). This is equivalent to about one-third of 1972 GNP and about 10%
of the nation's capital stock. Costs of replacing the damage are likely to
be higher than the value of physical assets destroyed since quite apart from
any price increases, new structures must often be of higher quality than the
partly wornout structures they replace.
2.11      Given the magnitude of the damages relative to the size of the
Nicaraguan economy, the task of reconstruction is likely to be spread over
many years. Factors affecting the pace of reconstruction will be the extent
to which the capacity of the construction industry can be expanded and the
extent to which activities elsewhere in the country are postponed in favor



-6-
of rebuilding the capital city.  Of the $300 million of damage to physical
assets about $100 million represent replacement of equipment, furnishings
and inventories while the other $200 million represent construction costs.
The latter figure compares with estimates of $20 million for the gross value
of annual construction activity in Managua, including equipment costs. Thus
a five-year rebuilding program equivalent to the value of the construction
damage requires doubling the 1971 level of construction activity in Managua,
which would be a realistic target since the construction industry was operat-
ing at less than 50% capacity prior to the earthquake.
2.12      The impact of the earthquake upon levels of output and employment
is, fortunately, less than might have been expected given tihe magnitude of
the destruction of capital assets. Large scale nianufacturing activities
were located almost entirely on the edges of the city and thus were outside
the zone of greatest destruction. In terms of employment and output, the
major impact was on the large stores and the small shops which had been lo-
cated in the central zone. Reconstruction activities will partially offset
the loss in employment in these areas. Government offices and financial ac-
tivities continue in temporary quarters outside the seriously damaged area
and in some cases in surrounding towns. Thus levels of production that sank
drastically immediately after the earthquake are recovering rapidly even
though the task of replacing lost physical assets will spread over several
years. For the 12-month period of 1973, it is expected that output in Managua,
including reconstruction activities, will be no more than 15% below the 1972
level and in 1974 is expected to regain the pre-earthquake level. For the
country as a whole, output in 1973 may be about 9% below 1972, which would
be approximately 15% below the 1973 level it would have reached without the
earthquake.
2.13      Public sector finances have been seriously affected by tne earth-
quake. For 1973 and 1974 together, the loss in receipts is estimated at S61
million, i.e. about 18% below what otherwise might have been expected.  Addi-
tional expenditures in the two-year period are estimated at $29 mi]lion, rais-
ing the net budgetary impact to about $90 million. However, emergency tax
measures introduced by the Government (taxes on traditional exports and on
civil servant salaries) will provide about $46 million and disbursements of
earthquake reconstruction loans should provide another $24 million. It should
be possible to .inance the remaining $20 million from domestic sources without
,ear of creating balance of payments problems due to the "spill over" from
domestic to import demand, which the country can afford as consequence of a
iumuher of favorable factors -- international reserves are hign, the prices
Of *lraditional exports are favorable and substantial amounts of reconstruc-
tion assistance are being mobilized. Emergency import requirements -- food-
stuffs, medicines, tents -- have been met by grant assistance. Export earn-
in!s will hardly be affected by the earthquake. In the 1973-74 period
..caragua's lormal capital account receipts will be supplemented by about
$75 million in insurance payments and disbursements from reconstruction
loans.  This should be sufficient to finance the current account deficit
even if import needs should turn out to be higher than now estimated.



-7-
Reconstruction Planning
2.14      In elaborating a detailed development plan, many uncertainties and
conflicting considerations come into play and these require considerably more
time and study to resolve. Meanwhile, Managua is in fact being rebuilt on
the basis of myriad, ad hoc decisions by those directly affected by the earth-
quake. As of now no alternative site for the capital city has been identified.
The substantial remaining infrastructure and larger industries, most of which
were unaffected by the earthquake, cannot be jetisoned. Therefore, the issue
becomes one of Managua's size and economic concentration relative to other
cities. Though no comprehensive plan has been formulated a general strategy
is firming up based on: retaining Managua as the capital but deconcentrating
the population and industrial activities, thereby spreading the risks; promot-
ing a faster growth rate in secondary cities; and improving construction
standards and the quality of building materials.
2.15      Prior to the earthquake an urban planning study for the Government
was being done by the Deplan firm of Mexico and the Nicaraguan firm of Osorio
and Teran. The purpose of this work was the elaboration of a master plan,
or Plan Regulador, for the City of Managua. The first phase of this study,
one of basic data gathering, was begun in November 1972 and interrupted by
the earthquake of last December. After the earthquake the Tiexican Government
volunteered to provide the services of prominent professionals, officials
and staff of the Deplan firm to propose solutions for the reconstruction of
Managua.
2.16      In its present form, the "plan" does not spell out costs, staging,
procedures or serious alternatives. Rather it is a "concept plan", expres-
sing some desired outcomes in physical form. For example, the plan proposes
to limit the population of Managua to a range of 250,000 to 300,000 inhabitants
but does not indicate the measures to be taken to achieve this objective. It
accepts the decision to rebuild the city in its present site. It proposes
a system of diagonal roadways following fault lines and implies the revision
of the majority of existing street lines. The sketch plan calls for pedes-
trian walkways along a North/South alignment connecting the lake with the
Tiscapa Lagoon. This "gran paseo" is lined by high buildings with commercial
use of the street levels. The proposal calls for a reduction of built-up
areas and concentration of population in widely-spaced highrise buildings.
International Advisory Panel
2.17      The International Advisory Panel (paras. 1.02 - 1.03) funded jointly
by the OAS, IDB, and IBRD found that "the available plan, in the form in which
it now exists in Managua, does not constitute an adequate guide for proceeding
with the reconstruction of the city." The Panel's main conclusions are sum-
marized below. They appear to have received a general measure of agreement.
-    The site of Managua presents probably the worst earthquake-
risk of any major city in the Americas. An earthquake of
the intensity of that of December is to be expected about
every thirty years.



-8-
The surrounding region, however, does not have any obvious
site which presents significantly less risk than Managua.
This does not exclude that a better site may be determined
after further study.
Some of the secondary towns appear to have substantially
less risk of the frequent earthquakes of Managua but are
generally exposed, due to their location on basic fault
lines, to much more severe earthquakes at 100-500 year
intervals.
In these conditions, three main conclusions follow;
There should be greater dispersal both within the
Managua region and between Managua and other towns
to reduce the danger of a large part of the country's
economic and administrative structure being severely
damaged by a single earthquake event -- even t4iough
this iill increase the risk of some part of this
structure being damaged more frequently. In brief,
"don't put all of your eggs in one basket;"
As much use as possible should be made of the
buildings, industry and infrastructure remaining
in the Managua region while promoting dispersal
to other towns of new buildings, industry and
activities which can be relocated without high
economic cost;
Studies should continue urgently on locating
better sites since reconstruction will continue
over several years and location emphasis can be
changed at a later date.
So far as Managua is concerned, the extent of the damage was
less the result of the absence of an earthquake code for
building design than due to poor construction materials,
supervision of construction and details of design.
For important public buildings, dangerous industrial and
utility construction, etc. strict earthquake resistance codes
should be enforced. This will probably require design and
construction help from outside the country.
For housing, such codes would be both impractical and too
expensive. For such construction, the emphasis should be
on promotion of better materials and design short of full
earthquake resistance. High-rise construction appears in-
appropriate from both construction and sociological aspects.



-9-
For commercial and office buildings, an in-between position
should be adopted with strong emphasis on materials and
supervision. Local architect/engineering capabilities are
generally adequate if fully utilized.
Spatial planning of Managua should concentrate on:
-    much lower densities in the central area with no
high buildings apart from important public buildings,
etc. at least until more analysis is available on
sub-soil conditions and risks of alternative building
methods in this context;
-    a series of nuclei in the periphery districts;
-    housing, services and industry related to reduce
transport needs;
-    a sewerage system and treatment plant to stop the
pollution of Lake Managua;
-    relocating the main market outside the central area;
-    restraining private vehicles in the central area.
Much greater emphasis is required on housing for low-income
groups (which suffered particularly in the destruction).
Timber construction affords considerable possibilities if
systems of cross-bracing and masonry at lower levels are
introduced to reduce termite damage. Community services
and transport need to be planned as an integral part of
housing development areas.
New roadways should not be built until the maximum is
extracted from the present road system with minor modi-
fications and improvements. This will allow for better
consideration of the new spatial urban pattern to be
adopted.
With regard to decentralization from Managua to other towns:
-    the opportunity should be taken to relocate certain
government services in other towns;
-    new industries should be located elsewhere so far as
this does not entail heavy economic costs;
-    great care should be taken in relocating small
businesses which profit from external economies of
scale and business service economies in a major
agglomeration.



- 10 -
-    No absolute restrictions on thie size of 'anagua should
be attempted.  The goal should be to reduce the rate of
Managua's growth as compared with other towns.
2.13      The Panel also made reconmendations on the staging of planning,
organizational framework, land values, collection of savings, training of
construction workers, taxation of vacant land, and building codes.
2.19      The recommendations of the Panel imply a severe criticism of parts
of the M'exican proposals even though these were only available in general
form tnsubstantiated by details of any analysis or costing tnat may have
been undertaken. In particular, the Mlexican proposals included:
-    setting a limit of 250,000 - 300,000 on the population
of Managua;
-    priority to redevelopment of the Central Area as a cen-
tral commercial and civic center (including university)
with high-rise buildings;
-    utilization of fault lines in the December earthquake
for high speed roads and gardens (the Panel believes the
faults may move elsewhere next time and the pattern of
roads proposed would not accord with circulation needs).
2.20      The report of the International Advisory Panel and that of the
Mexican team are currently being actively considered by the Nicaraguan author-
ities. Clearance of the devastated area will not be completed until the end.
of 1973 and by that time the Nicaraguan Government will prepare a more compre-
hensive basic plan for the reconstruction and redevelopment of the Mana_ua
Region and its relation to fostering growth in other urban centers. An interir
report as well as the final plan will be submitted for review by an international
advisory panel. Subsoil testing in the Managua area will be instituted to pro-
vide a basis for design standards in the Managua area, particularly the central
area; and proposals for building codes and their implementation will be com-
pleted before June 30, 1973. The Government will consult with the Association
on the results of all these studies. Further,no new permanent structures of
a nature that would foreclose the options to which the plan will be addressed
will be licensed in the central area before the basic plan for redevelopment has
been completed. Such structures include administrative buildings, markets and
com-ercial centers and high-rise or high-density developments. This timetable
for the planning effort thus appears realistic both in terms of constraints and
opportunities.
Tne Project
2.21      In these circumstances, the framework for reconstruction and
redevelopment to which the Association's project is related comprises:
-    restoring remaining productive capacity in Managua to
full operation as quickly as possible;



- 1 1 -
-    providing adequate and safe housing, particularly
for returning workers required for the above;
-    reducing the risk of similar extensive earthquake
damage in the future by:
-    deconcentrating Managua, particularly the central
district, over a wider area in the vicinity without,
at this stage, foreclosing or prejudging long-range
development options;
-    improving building standards;
-    supporting decentralization from Managua by
locating housing and industries in the secondary
cities;
-    economizing on resource use by, at this stage, making the
greatest use of still existing infrastructure, deferring
high cost structures and major new transport infrastructure
until more is known, and closely relating location of hous-
ing and employment.
2.22      Several lending agencies are supporting the reconstruction and re-
development effort at this stage when speed of execution, general consistency
with probable longer term plans yet to be worked out and attention to the most
urgent immediate needs are of primary importance. While preparing individual
programs, close contact has been maintained to ensure that the total effort
represents a mutually reinforcing package of projects and technical assistance.
AID has made a US$3.0 million grant for temporary housing and a US$15 million
loan for budget support to the Government, the proceeds of which will be ap-
plied primarily in the primary school and medical facilities sectors. IDB
is processing two loans, one of US$4.2 million for agro-industries and a
second emergency loan of US$16 million for sub-projects in the university
facilities, telecommunications, small enterprise and medium industry, and
the construction and building industry sectors. An existing water and sewer-
age supply loan has been modified to take into account immediate reconstruction
and redevelopment needs, particularly with regard to distribution networks.
2.23      The Association's project has been developed taking the programs
of other agencies fully into account. It comprises the following elements
(including US$1.5 million of local costs for civil works under the previous
water supply loan (808-NI)):
Project Total         IDA Credit
(US$ millions)
Sites and Services                                         8.0
Industrial Financing                                       2.5
Education                                                  2.0
Water Supply                                               2.5
Power                                                      5.0
Total                                     20.0



- 12 -
2.24      The site and services and industrial components are closely related
both in terms of location, employment and conformity with the twin objectives
of utilizing the remaining infrastructure and industrial capacity in Managua
while promoting decentralization from Managua to the refugee cities. Thus
the site and services component covers housing, primary schools and community
services in the four refugee cities as well as Managua while the emphasis
of the industrial sites and services component is on the refugee cities to
consolidate the movement of population that has taken place. The industrial
financing serves to ensure that infrastructure for industry and the establish-
ment of manufacturing plant in these cities develop in parallel.
2.25      The education component takes into consideration the programs of
AID for primary schools outside the new site and services areas and that
of the IDB for temporary installations for the university level. It accor-
dingly concentrates on secondary schools together with a technical instizute.
2.26      The water supply component similarly takes into account the IDB
program in this field which will provide the necessary water and sewerage
infrastructure to the boundaries of the site and services schemes. It
accordingly concentrates on the repair and rehabilitation of danaged instal-
lations not covered in the IDB project.  A further element of US$1.5 million
is included to cover part of the local costs for civil works under the prev-
ious water supply loan (808-NI) in accordance with the changed circumstaxices
resulting from the earthquake.
2.27      One part of the power component is concerned with the repair ani'
rehabilitation of existing installations in districts where reconstruction
is proceeding, and another with the extension of the existing distribution
network to provisional housing and related expansion of sub-statiors.  A
third element nrovides help to continue the work program of E'TAILIF in other-
parts of the country.  This work program had been conceived, inter -
terms of redoucing the drift to the capital city.  In current circunm:taoce.,
this consideration has added force.
2g28      in the time available, it has not been possible to carry out as
detailel an mnalysis of the project components as is customary.  However, as
the following sections on the individual components demonstrate, sufficient
information has been obtained to enable an appraisal to be made in sufficient
depth to provide an adequate evaluation while leaving some of the details to
be determined in the course of project execution.



- 13 -
III. SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
A.   Description of Project and Objectives
3.01      The sites and services component of the project consists of 6,400
lots comprised of the following items:
(a)  5,900 serviced residential lots complete with sanitary and
shelter core units, located in Managua (2,250), Masaya (850),
Granada (870), Leon (830) and Jinotepe (700), and (400) to be
allocated after a further review of the refugee population is
made and detailed engineering is completed;
(b)  500 serviced residential lots without shelter core units but
including sanitary core and building materials fund, in Managua;
(c)  Community facilities (primary schools, health centers, com-
munity centers, recreational space, markets) for all project
locations; and
(d)  Technical assistance, engineering design and construction
supervision.
3.02      The objectives are to provide:
(a)  safe accommodation and services at the earliest date possi-
ble for dislocated families, with special emphasis on assist-
ing those who want to take up permanent residence in the
secondary cities or who are returning to jobs in surviving
industries in Managua; and
(b)  guidance on improved techniques for self-help construction,
through a pilot program for 500 serviced lots, which would
have an impact beyond the immediate number of sites pro-
vided.
3.03      The four locations outside Managua are the secondary cities (see
Map 2) which received the bulk of the refugees and in which some 75,000
refugees still remain. They are also the cities on which the industrial
financing component (para. 4.07) will focus, thereby providing employment
opportunities for those who wish to take up permanent residence. The actual
number of lots to be provided in each of these cities is based on.a conserva-
tive proportion of refugee families who have indicated their intention to
stay (see below) and by the specific layout plan for each site. Because
of the fluid refugee situation, site plans were prepared so that develop-
ment could be staged in units of 250 lots.



- 14 -
REFUGEES IN FEBRUARY 1973
(figures rounded)
Leon     Granada    Masaya   Jinotepe-Diriamba
Number of Refugees       30,600    21,500       14,100        10,800
Number of Refugee
Families                5,000      3,200       2,800        2,000
Number of Families
Planning to Stay        1,600      1,300       1,700           900
Number of Families
Undecided to Stay         100        -           100           300
Source:  Surveys by Emergency Committee and Municipalities.
3.04      Approximately 100,000 refugees had returned to the Managua area
by mid-February. The 2,750 serviced lots to be provided in Managua will
accommodate about 15% of these, and the bulk of the remainder are being
given provisional shelter, e.g. the US$3.0 million USAID grant comprising
11,000 temporary wooden shelters.  The special fund for a continutng low-
income sites and services/housing program (para 3.23) will provide suffi-
cient lots over the next 10-25 years to help meet present and future demand
arising from continued urban growth.
B.   Planning Criteria and Design Standards
3.05      In three weeks of intensive project preparation and appraisal in
February, the Mission helped to reorganize five Nicaraguan project prepara-
tion teams, identified preferred locations in the secondary cit:ies and Managua,
and prepared the lavouts, preliminary designs and cost estimates for the sites
and services component, including related infrastructure and community facil-
ities. The teams examined alternative lot sizes and layout designs before
selecting the preferred solution consisting of 110 m2 (7.5 x 14.6 m) lots
clustered into 14 units around a small open space (cluster size of 45m x 40m).
The preferred design for lot layout results in an allocation of 55% of site
area to lots, 20% to circulation (roads, footpaths, etc.) and 25% to community
facilities (schools, clinics, markets). The net density is 35 lots per
manzana (20.5 per acre) and with the average family size of six persons,
this yields an overall net density of 123 persons per acre, or 304 persons
per ha. This arrangement is economical, results in efficient and physically
attractive land forms and offers good extension possibilities for self-
help housing.



- 15 -
3.06      In designing the layouts, each team examined land uses abutting
the site, locations of bus routes and existing social and commercial facil-
ities, topography and surface water runoff. A fundamental principle adopted
was the need to integrate the sites selected into the existing urban areas
particularly in relation to employment opportunities. Schematic site plans
indicating transportation lines, cluster arrangements and community facili-
ties were worked up and sketch designs of infrastructure were drafted and
reviewed with representatives of the Banco de la Vivienda, DENACAL and ENALUWF.
Annex 6, Figs. 1-4 show these designs for Leon, Granada, Masaya and Jinotepe.
3.07      Careful analysis of the special circumstances in Nicaragua indicated
a need to modify the usual sites and services approach. Minimum shelter and
services must be provided for dislocated families as soon as possible. While
there has been considerable building done in the past by self-help methods,
particular techniques and building materials employed were responsible for
much of the extensive damage to housing in the earthquake, as were the con-
struction techniques and poor quality materials used by the regular construc-
tion industry. In view of these factors and the risks of future quakes
throughout the region, the basic sites and services approach was expanded
to include a 20 sq m earthquake resistant shelter and sanitary core unit on
5,900 lots. Initial construction of the core unit by contract will permit
early occupancy in a safe shelter (some 2,000 similar units in Managua sur-
vived the quake virtually unscathed) which can later be expanded by carefully
guided and inspected self-help methods.
3.08      The basic sites and services approach, omitting the 20 sq m shelter,
will be retained for a 500-lot development area as a pilot project to develop
and foster improved self-help construction techniques. Intensive technical
assistance and guidance will be provided in the project to assure that struc-
tural designs and building techniques would have widespread application for
self-help construction in Nicaragua.
3.09      All lots will be serviced by individual electricity and water con-
nections and sanitary sewers. The sanitary core units will have a w.c., shower
and washing unit (pilar). Overall storm water drainage is provided. Collector
roads which will carry bus traffic will have a seven-meter roadway with a
double bituminous surface treatment, minor roads will have a five-meter road-
way and single-surface treatment. Street lighting and footpaths will be pro-
vided.   Annex 2 contains details about preliminary designs, layouts and cost
estimates.
3.10      Community facilities for approximately each 500 families will
include:
(a) a six-classroom primary school;
(b) a health clinic;
(c) a community center with meeting rooms, sanitary facilities
and administrative space; and



- 16 -
(d) a market area with surfacing, washing facilities and
drainage.
Layouts also include space for recreation and for future small industry (4 ha
per 1,000 households) and commercial development (1 shop per 25 households).
(See Annex 2 for details).
3.11      Care has been taken to assure that all trunk infrastructure and
services needed to link the project locations with existing city systems are
either already available or are being installed as part of the reconstruction
projects being assisted by the IDB (for the secondary cities) or by IDA (for
AGUADORA and ENALUF in Managua).
3.12      The preliminary design utilizes concrete blocks, reinforced concrete
beams and columns, zinc sheet roofing on timber purlins, wood louvires, concrete
floor and plywood doors. However, four building materials options have been
recommended by a specialist in earthquake design (Prof. N. Ambraseys, London;
a member of the International Advisory Panel) as being suitable for the core
units and subsequent self-help extensions to these units:
(a)  timber framed with diagonal bracing;
(b)  pre-cast concrete;
(c)  in-situ concrete; and
(d)  brick or concrete block set in an in-situ reinforced
concrete frame.
Tenders for construction of the core units will call for alternative proposals
for these options, unless further analysis during the period of detailed en-
gineering shows an alternative to be unsuitable. At this stage BVN has ob-
jected to tinber because of fire hazard and eventual termite infestation.
This alternative will be reexamined.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
3.13      The cost estimates are based on preliminary design and engineering
completed by the mission working closely with five Nicaraguan project prep-
aration teams 1/ -- one for Managua and one for each of the secondary cities
in which the sites and services projects are located, Leon, Granada, Masaya,
and Jinotepe/Diriamba. Discussions were also held with a wide range of
Nicaraguan architects and engineers.
1/   Each team consisted of four persons - an engineer, architect, economist
and sociologist. The personnel were drawn from the Ministry of Public
Works (cadastral office), Banco de la Vivienda and local universities.



- 17 -
3.14      The project components and cost estimates are presented below.
Total project costs are shown as well as unit costs attributable to and re-
payable by households. The mission concluded that these cost estimates pro-
vide a sound basis for Association financing even though detailed engineering
will take two to three more months to complete. (See Annex 2 for more de-
tailed breakdown and basis for calculations). The principle used in arriving
at the unit costs attributable to households is that families should bear
land costs of the lots, infrastructure works directly attributable to the
lots, lot development costs (sanitary unit and minimum shelter) and 1/2 of
circulation (roads, footpaths) costs with the other half attributable to
community facilities. As should normally be the case in providing schools
and health facilities, the land and infrastructure costs of community fa-
cilities are not costed to the lot recipients. These costs represent part
of Government's contribution to the project.



- 18 -
Summrasry of Project Cost Estimates
Unit Costs
% of Sub-     Attributable to and
(thousands of uS$) TotalCosts    Payable by Households
1.  Laxid                                                                          (US Dollars)
a.  Managua - 2,750 lots                           903                                200
b.  Secondary cities - 3,250 lots                  399                                 75
1,302       12.2
2. Site Preparation
a.  Topographical and Survey works                103                                  18
b.  Earthworks                                     404                                 4i
507        4.7
3. Infrastructure
a.  Urbanization Works                                                          '1
Streets and footways                        649                     (108)  -     4
Water distribution systems                  281                                 47
Sanitary facilities                         344                                 57
Drainage                                    184                                 31
Electricity/street lighting                 171                                 28
1,62-9-     15.2                     217
b.  Clustering 2
Water, sewers, streets external
to lots, open space planting                693         6.5                    116
4. Lot Development
a.  Sanitary Core Unit                          1,398
b.  Minimum Shelter Unit                        3,317                                 836
c.  Materials Fund                                180
779-5       L, L5.7
5.  Comnunity Facilities
a.  12 Schools                                    348
b.  12 Health Clinics                             186
c.  12 Meeting Houses/Day Care Centers            173
J.  1c Markets/Commercial Shops                    50
757        7.1
6,  Detailed Engineering and Construction
Sunervision                                       763         7.1                    110
7^  .rechnical Assistance                             160         1.5
Sub.-total                    10,706       100.0                  1,538
Se Contingencies
P7hysical - 15% of items 2-5                1,266                                184
Price Escalation - 10% of items 2-5           848                                123
12, 2 0     a. Managua           -  7B75
Provision for additional 400 lots                 800/3   b. Secondary Cities - 1,720
TOTAL          13,620
!j 2T1nly 50% of road works should be attributable to and paid for by households.
The other half whose costs are attributable to the community facilities represent
part of Government's contribution to the project.
'  Urbanization costs attributable to cluster design.
/3  IThe tota' costs for 6,000 lots are $12.8 million.  Therefore, 400 lots would cost about
an additional $800,000.



_ 19 -
3.15      As shown above the unit costs attributable to and repayable by
households are estimated at $1,845 for a serviced lot with sanitary/shelter
core unit in Managua and $1,720 for the same lot in the secondary cities,
the difference due to land prices.  These costs include a share of engineer-
ing and construction supervision fees, technical assistance and 25% contin-
gencies, but do not include a project administration fee. The executing
agency BVN (Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua) has not in the past levied
families with such fees and it is not proposed that they do so for the sites
and services project since the entity is in a sound financial position and
can absorb comfortably the administrative costs of screening anplicants and
collecting monthly payments. Mortgages with 22-year terms and 5% interest
rate will be offered to the families who would have to pay a downpayment of
5% of the sales price based on actual construction costs and an estimated
monthly payment of 076.72 (US$10.96) for a Managua lot and ¢71.54 (US$10.22)
for a serviced lot in the secondary cities. (See Annex 2, Table 3 for these
calculations.) Hiousehold insurance covering theft, fire and earthquake damage
will be provided by BVN for an additional 03 per month. Assuming that they
spend 20% 1/ of their incomes on housing payments, a family would have to earn
0370-395 per month to service the t74-79 monthly payments.  T-erefore the sites
and services project can be afforded by the target population group of 4400-
1,100 per month. The project beneficiaries thereby fall within the bottom 15-45
percentiles of the income distribution curve according to the income data avail-
able prior to the earthquake.  The mortgage interest rate of 5% represents a
subsidized rate on the part of BVN since mortgage rates in Nicaragua vary be-
tween 6% for other BVN low-cost hiousing to 14% for privately financed housing.
It had been BVN's policy in the past to subsidize the low-income projects to
this extent and the Association recommends that BVT continue to do so for the
sites andl services reconstruction project.
Amount of IDA Sub-Credit
3.16      The proposed IDA sites and services sub-Credit of S8.0 million
would cover 59% of the total costs of the project, estimated as above at
US$13.6 million. The Association would disburse an agreed percentage against
certificates of completion of construction, including civil works. Construc-
tion contracts for all or parts of civil works and the core imits will be
invited under the Bank's procedures for international competitive bidding.
This should be of sufficient size to attract international competition.
For engineering consulting and technical assistance costs disbursement
would be made against 100% of foreign exchange expenditures. It is rec-
ommended that this portion of the credit be passed on by Government to the
executing agency, Banco de la Vivienda, on a grant basis. Any amount re-
maining undisbursed upon completion of this part of the project would be
cancelled, unless its disbursement on other parts of the project covered
by the credit is considered appropriate.
1/   This percentage conforms to rough data from the Central Bank's sample
survey of 400 households.



- 20 -
Government Participation
3.17      Government's contribution of $5.6 million equivalent will primarily
be in the form of land and community facilities, and some infrastructure.
Land for all five sites amounting to 170 to 185 manzanas should soon be ac-
quired and this will constitute nearly one-quarter of the Government's con-
tribution to the project, the rest coming in the form of construction of
schools, clinics and markets. Assurances that this Government contribution
will be forthcoming were obtained during negotiations. Besides the contribu-
tion, Government will also adequately staff the schools and clinics.
Implementation
3.18      The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 5, Figure 1.  Detailed
engineering will commence in 'May and should be completed within 2-3 months.
Three months are allowed for solicitation of bids and awarding of the con-
struction contract. Site preparation will take about 6 months to complete
and infrastructure servicing, which will begin 3 months later will be com-
pleted within 12 months. Core unit construction can begin four months after
commencement of infrastructure servicing. By mid-1975, the project should
be fully executed and disbursements completed shortly thereafter. Annex 5,
Table 1 shows the estimated disbursement schedule. Discussions are in pro-
gress with Banco de la Vivienda on ways to speed up implementation, e.g.
shortening the tender period and moving core unit construction ahead.
D.   Executing Agency - Banco de la Vivienda (INVI Department)
3.19      The implementing agency for the sites and services project will be
the National Housing Bank, BVN (Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua), an auton-
omous agency established by Government to construct and finance housing units
in both the public and private sectors. Annex 3 describes the organization,
operations and financial situation of BVN. It is basically a well managed,
financially sound organization. Since 1969 the INVI Department of the }lousing
`Bank has executed through subcontractors two low-cost housing projects in
Managua of 1,000 units each (Primero de Mayo, Unidad de Proposito) that
provided a family with a 126 sq meter serviced lot, individual sanitary
units and a 25 sq meter room constructed with concrete floors and walls and
asbestos roofs, costing 10,500 cordobas (US$1,500) per unit. Both housing
complexes were unscathed by the earthquake, although nearby houses were
-;verely damaged. This appears to have been attributable to better con-
struction materials and techniques.
2.20      Annex 3, Figure I, depicts the organization of BVN which has not
clhanged significantly since the basic reorganization in June 1966. BVN em-
ploys about 80 persons, of which 38 are professionals allocated to three
departments. INVI has five engineers, one architect and two sociologists.
T]he staff has been kept small because of sub-contracts with consulting en-
:-aneering firms and an agreement with the National University, whereby
sociology graduate students work with the BVN's communities.



- 21 -
3.21      It is recommended that INVI staff be supplemented by three experts
financed under the Credit for varying periods of time totalling 40 man months.
The group should consist of: (a) a structural engineer familiar with housing
and small building construction in an earthquake zone; (b) an architect or
municipal engineer familiar with building materials; and (c) a sociologist
(or other suitable specialization) to improve INVI's social inputs and to
help supervise an increased staff of social workers on site. The persons
should be selected individually by BVN and approved by the Association.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.22      INVI's permanent staff should also be expanded by adding a resident
engineer, three technical assistance foremen, two inspectors and two social
workers per thousand serviced lots. These persons should reside on the various
sites for at least two years commencing with the beginning of construction of
the core units. INVI should also add to their permanent staff a senior archi-
tect, engineer and sociologist responsible exclusively for implementation of
the sites and services project. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. INVI will be responsible for detailedl design, engineer-
ing and execution of the project. It intends to sub-contract the detailed
design and engineering to two firms. BVN is giving special attention to the
procedure for the collection of monthly mortgage payments and will shortly
be instituting a new debt collection system on lines formulated in an exten-
sive study completed in September 1972 by its external auditors, Peat Marwick,
Mitchell & Co. To date they have not had a problem with payment arrears.
3.23      BVN's financial position is very sound.  Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3,
show BVN's Consolidated Balance Sheets and Income Statements for 1970-72.
Separate accounts are kept by BVN for each Department. Separate accounts
will be maintained for the sites and services project within INVI's accounts.
Sites and Services/Housing Fund
3.24      Repayments from sites and services beneficiaries, as well as the
repayments from ENALUF, AGUADORA and INFO0NAC sub-loans would be channelled
into a special fund at BVN for a continuing low-income sites and services/
housing program. This would enable BVN to apply $1.5 to $2.0 million an-
nually to such a continuing program.  (See Annex 3, Table 4.)  In this
respect the propose(d reconstruction credit has a significant income redis-
tribution effect, namely funds will be transferred from Goverunent to BVN,
specifically for low-income housing needs, a sector to which Government has
not given sufficient priority in the past.
3.25      The system for screening applicants is currently being formulated
by INVI.  The demand for the serviced lots is likely to be three-four times
the 6,000-unit supply. Prior to the earthquake INVI had 8,000 applicants
on file for low-cost housing.  Applicants will be allotted serviced lots
chronologically after satisfying two criteria: (a) that they were displaced
by the earthquake, and (b) that they have household income between 0400 and
01,100 per month.  About 30% of the lots will be reserved for families with
household income of less than ¢500 per month. A downpayment will not be re-
quired from these families. Families with monthly incomes below 0400 will be
able to obtain lots if BVN is satisfied that they can service the monthly



-22-
payments. Assurances to this effect were obtained durring negotiations.
3.26      BVN has previously concluded "tenant-purchase" contracts with
families whereby they acquire ownership only after 22 years when they have
fully paid their monthly payments. (See details in Annex 3, para 4). The
Bank mission discussed a change in BVN policy in this regard.  According to
the proposed project agreement, families would be offered mortgages at 22-
year terms carrying a 5% rate of interest. Ownership will be transferred
after consolidation takes place to the extent of the first self-help room
being built, inspected and approved by the INVI Department of BVN. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
E.   Socio-Economic Benefits
3.27      Estimates for comparable types of housing were made in the field
and are presented in Annex 4, Table 2. The core unit in the sites and serv-
ices project was compared to a room in a cuarteria and to ingle-room dwell-
ings with an average of 20 to 25 sq meters with surfaced floors and running
water. Room rents varied between 0100 (US$14.3) and ¢150 (US$21.4) monthly. 1/
The first stage of consolidation, the addition of one room, was compared to
the rental value of dwellings in Managua with one bedroom and an all-purpose
room (i.e. dining room-kitchen-living room) whose rents vary from 0125 (US$17.8)
to 0175 (US$25) per month. Most of these hiousing units have running water and
are connected to the city's sewerage system. 2/  Rental values for the con-
solidated house (three rooms, plus a dining room-kitchen) are in the same
range as those in some of the past projects of Banco de la Vivienda, which
vary between ¢175 (US$25) in the housing project La Salvadorita and e255
(US$36.4) in the housing project Luis Somoza. Rental values for these types
of housing in the other cities were found to be on the average about 15%-'
Delow those of Managua.
3.28      Costs included in the rate of return calculations are the costs of
site preparation, infrastructure, core unit, engineering, tecnnical assist-
ance and contingencies, net of taxes and finance charges.  Land costs were
excluded .or nurposes of sensitivity analysis.  (Annex 4, Table 1).
3.29      Several benefit streams were calculated based on the capitalized
rental values  assuming different consolidation patterns for rhe lots and
a 30-year life for the structures. First, if no consolidation takes place,
the rate of return is 12.4%, or 14.2% if lanid costs are not included.  Second,
it was assumed that :ne room at an average cost of US$285 would be added to
all basic units in the  ZIrst five years of occupancy.  This yields a rate of
retu.rn or 12.7,, including the cost of the land and 14.4% without. Third, it
Wl +further assumed that the consolidation would be completed in at least half
1/   Neighborihoods include in the survey were the cuarteries around downtown
(those not destroyed by the earthquake): Acahualinca, Fray Bartolome de
las Casas, La Reinada, Mercado Oriental.
2/   Neighborhoods included in the survey were:  Las Brisas, Linda Vista,
La Reinada, La Tenderi.



- 23 -
of the houses at cost of US$538 each between years 6 and 16 of occupancy.
This yields rates of return of 13.1% and 14.8% when land costs are included
or excluded respectively. For sensitivity analysis the minimum rental values
included in Annex 4, Table 2 were used yielding returns of 7.5%, 8.3%, 8.7%
when land costs are included for the three benefit streams calculated, and
8.9%, 9.6% and 9.9% when land costs are excluded (See Annex 4 Table 3).
3.30      Besides providing housing for 6,000 families, the sites and serv-
ices project will have an important effect on employment and the quality of
life. The employment creation effect will be substantial since labor costs
represent about 40% of construction costs. The employment effect, moreover,
will continue beyond the completion of the project as consolidation of the
dwellings proceeds in some cases through self-help, in others by hiring local
workers to do part of the construction. Water and sewerage connections to
all the sites and neighborhood health clinics should contribute to better
health in the community. The integrated nature of the project, which includes
schools, clinics, markets, paved roads and footpaths and green areas, will
provide a better physical and social environment.



- 24 -
IV. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING COMPONENT
A.   Description of Project and Relocation Objectives
4.01      The industrial financing component of the project consists of the
following items:
(a) Financing for industrial sites and services in
the secondary cities; and
(b) Financing of sub-loans for plant, equipment and buildings
for an estimated 30 or more medium-sized industries, which
are expected to locate in the secondary cities and thus
provide the major employment linkage to the sites and
services for low-income households (Chapter III).
(i) Industrial Sites and Services
4.02      If a significant number of medium-sized industries are to relocate
in Nicaragua's secondary cities as part of a deconcentration and gradual de-
centralization process, prepared industrial land is needed at realistic
prices. Several city councils, e.g. Jinotepe, Masaya and Granada, as well
as private groups, are preparing specific proposals for incremental develop-
ment of industrial zones. Prospective sub-borrowers will be ldentified more
specifically at the completion of detailed engineering f,or household sites
and services, and the invitation for bids for the lattev w4ll iielt.de the
industrial site preparation. The proposed industrial comzponent of the re-
construction project includes US$300,CKO  earmarked for tl e preparation of
industrial sites in the secondary cities. This would help launth a cow-
templated 014.0 million (US$2.0 million) program for the preparstion o:
industrial zones extending over a five-eight year period.
4.03      The maximum amount of industrial land needed for the mredium term
in each of the four refugee areas (Leon, Granada, Masaya and Jinotepe-
Uiriamba) is calculated to be 14 hectares (20 manzanas).  Efforts are uniderway
to establish zones of 7 to 14 ha. of land for industry in each of the four
areas, adjacent to or within walking distance of the sites and services for
low-income households. Existing and planned off-site itifrastructure is
suitable for these locations. Land costs are estimated at 42 per square
vara ($20,000 per nanzana, i.e. US$4,142 per ha or US$.41/square meter) in
7irtotepe and Granada, and up to 05/square vara in Masaya and Leon, as compared
WA. th t1O for industrial land on the outskirts of Managua. In all of the
secondary cities, several alternative sites would be suitable and within
walking distance for employees because of the small size and compactness
of the cities.
4.04      The projects would not start with the full 20 manzanas, but rather
5 Manzanas in each of the secondary cities to be expanded incrementally as
additional investments firm up. Land purchases should contain options for



- 25 -
suitable adjacent land. In the case of Granada and Leon, cotton would continue
to be grown on the land in the industrial zone until it is displaced by in-
dustrial users.
4.05      Land acquisition costs constitute part of the local counterpart
and would not be financed by the Association. Cost estimates include the pro-
vision of industrial and potable water, sewerage, roads, fences, electricity,
telephone lines, etc. Estimates are that infrastructure could be provided for
t10.7 per square vara of total land, or t13.4 per square vara of usable land.
The average medium-sized firm would require one-third of a manzana (.56 acres)
and the costs estimated per firm for Granada and Jinotepe were 06,250 for land
and 039,500 for infrastructure; for Leon and Masaya, 016,000 and 049,000
respectively.
4.06      The Association would finance 50% of the urbanization costs to
initiate a program of incremental development of industrial sites and
services in support of Government's intention over the longer term to en-
courage the gradual decentralization of industry in Nicaragua.
(ii) Financing for Sub-Projects
4.07      A list of more than 50 prospective industrial projects has been
identified by the executing agency, Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC)
working with private investors and local mayors or governing councils. The
prospective projects, along with the size of investment and estimated employ-
ment effects, are summarized below and details are given in Annex 7. It is
expected that the Association would finance more than 30 of these sub-projects,
with an average size loan from the Association's funds of ¢550,000 (US$78,000).
Not more than 50% of each sub-loan would be financed by the Association.
INFONAC will normally require a 60:40 debt equity ratio but would lower the
equity requirement to 10% for sub-borrowers severely damaged by the earth-
quake but who are otherwise good credit risks. It is estimated that the
foreign exchange component of the aggregate sub-projects would exceed 50%
of total costs, not including working capital. In the case of buildings,
the indirect import component is estimated at 25-30%. The Association's
financing would effectively be 100% of foreign exchange financing, direct
and indirect. The sub-projects include 22 earthquake-damaged plants expecting
to relocate outside Managua.
4.08      The sites and services for low-income households and industry
components of the reconstruction project were designed to reinforce each
other. The absence of permanent manufacturing employment precluded locating
a larger percentage of serviced lots with core units in the secondary cities.
The 3,250 serviced lots in these cities would accommodate a permanent popula-
tion increase of 18,000 to 21,000. The small industries loan through INFONAC
is estimated to provide more than 1,200 permanent new manufacturing jobs in
the refugee cities based on the list of specific project applications. Taking



- 26 -
the national manufacturing labor force/population ratio of 13:1, 1,200 new
jobs would provide the main support for the increased permanent population.
4.09      A continuing problem will be the training of refugees for the new
plants installed in the refugee cities.   Government, with assistance from
ILO, is presently formulating a program for training of refugees.
The training could be carried out by local institutions such as Instituto
Technologico Vocacional (ITV), Instituto Nacional de Apprendizaje, Christian
Brothers and others.
B.   Executing Agency - INFONAC (Instituto de Fomento Nacional)
4.10      Financing for the small and medium scale industries will. be channel-
led through the national development banlc, INFONAC, an autonomous govern-
ment agency created by Decree No. 54 of November 19, 1952.  INFONAC's broad
organic law permits it to operate as a development bank, finance company,
development institute, research organization and promoter of a wide variety
of production activities. IB3RD made two small loans totalling US$2 million
to INFONAC in 1955 to assist projects in the agricultural and power sectors.
During the mid-SO's and early 60's INFONAC remained in a fairly sound finan-
cial position but moved steadily into financial difficulties by the mid-1960's
primarily because of heavy losses in a few large projects such as bananas,
tobacco, and textiles. INFONAC's development activities have frequently led
to substantial economic benefits for Nicaragua while causing substantial
financial problems for INFONAC itself. INFONAC's orgasization, appraisal
procedures, and financial situation are described in Am    9.
4.11      INFONAC has the staff capabilities needed to make atechnical and
economic evaluation of each proposed sub-Droject and to administer thls cwiw-
ponent of the Credit.  INFONAC's appraisal and approval/re4ection of: the s:ub-
projects will be reviewed by the Association's representative expected Lto be
stationed in M1anagua for approximately one year beginning in June 1973 and
fr nquent stupervision missions will be conducted by the Industrial Projects
D)epartment. Separate accounts will be maintained hv INFONAC for sub-projects
involv4ng proceeds of the Credit and will be audited by a firm  acceptable to
the Association. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.12       INFONAC has undertaken to formulate, or engage consultants to formu-
late, a program for improving its internal organization, operating procedures
ans accountin? system particularly to separate the accounting of its indus-
rrial and agricultural portfolios, and its research and development program.
It is currently exploring the possibilities of obtaining from Kredit-Arnstalt
(Germany) an extension of its technical assistance and also assistance from
other sources such as UNDP and UNIDO.
Disbursements
4.13      The first industrial sub-project disbursements would begin in
July/August. It is expected that this conponent of the Credit would be fully
committed within six to nine months and disbursed within eighteen months,



SUTRIARY OF PROJECT LOAN APPLICATIONS L
(Thousands of Cordobas)
Elsewhere               Additional
Matagalpa,              Unidenti-
Jinotepe  Chinandega,               fied
Summary                             Granada  Masaya      Leon      Diriamba     etc.      Sub total  Locations   Total
1. Earthquake -damaged plants
to be built outside Managua   2,130(3)  2,897(9)    300(1)  2,127(5)       -         7,454(18)
2. Expansion of existing
facilities                     2,200(3)    -         160(2)  2,586(4)                4,946(9)
3. Decentralization of
industrial activities            946(2)  1,910(3)  2,200(2)  1,247(3)   6,830(13) 13,133(23)
Sub-total             5,276      4,807     2,660     5,960       6,830     25,533(50)      258(2)  25,792(52)
4. Earthquake-damaged firms but
no formal INFONAC
application                                                     800(3)                  800(3)                 800(3)
TOTAL                 5,276      4,807     2,660     6,761       6,829       26,333 (53)   258(2)  26,591(55)
Number of Projects                       8        12          5        15          13          53           2          55
Number of Employees                    311       446        302       600         174       1,833
Financing Cost, (000) Cordobas       5,276     4,807     2,660      6,760      6,830       26,333         258     26,591
Ratios:
Avg. Loan/Project, (000) Cordobas      659       400        532       451         525         497         129        484
/1    Does not include industrial sites and services.
( )  Indicates number of projects.                                                                     April 12, 1973



- 28 -
i.e. 07.5 million (US$1.07 million) in 1973 and 410 million (US$1.42 million)
in 1974. Any amount remaining undisbursed upon completion of this part of the
project would be cancelled, unless its disbursement on other parts of the
project covered by the credit is considered appropriate. Disbursements by
the Association would be for 50% of amounts disbursed by INFONAC under the
sub-loans. Documentation would be retained by the borrower and reviewed by
the Association during the course of project supervision missions.
Terms and Conditions
4.14      It is recommended that this portion of the Credit be relent to
INFONAC at 6.75% so that INFONAC can maintain its current lending rate of
8.75% and effectively promote the recommended decentralization process.
This rate is comparable to the 9% and 8% on-lending rates for medium and
small industries, respectively, applied by the Banco Nacional to its IDB
loan. INFONAC sub-loans would be for fixed assets for periods of up to
ten    years, including up to three years of grace.  Repayments by INFONAC
would be scheduled on the basis of sub-loan repayments and would be made
directly into the housing fund (para. 3.24).



-29 -
V. EDUCATION COMPONENT
5.01      The education cormponent of the reconstruction project consists
of the following items:
(a) Four temporary general secondary schools (prefabricated
and expected to be in operation by June 1973);
(b) Two permanent multilateral secondary schools; and
(c) One permenent technical institute.
A.   Earthquake Damage
5.02      Most educational facilities in Managua were located in the center
of the city, where the earthquake damage was heaviest. An estimated 70% of
primary and 35% of secondary school capacity was destroyed. Those schools
that did survive are located mainly in the suburbs and need extensive repairs
before they can be put into use. Some school furniture was salvaged. Damages
at the Managua campus of the National University can be repaired, but most of
the buildings of the private University of Central America were destroyed.
The Association's reconstruction efforts concentrate on secondary education,
since primary and university education will be assisted by the USAID and IDB
respectively. However, a dozen primary schools have been included as an in-
tegral part of the sites and services project (Chapter III).
5.03      At the secondary level, practically the only public schools still
standing are the two Bank-financed general secondary schools and a teacher-
training college, which were recently completed with financial assistance
from the Bank under Loan No. 532-NI. The teacher-training college is currently
housing the Ministry of Education, while the two secondary schools served as
headquarters for the Red Cross and a relief distribution center. All three
institutions suffered reparable damages which are being costed; funds for
the aeeded repairs are available under Loan No. 532-NI. Private schools, ac-
counting in 1972 for some 40% of secondary enrollment, were also severely hit;
only a few of them can be repaired and put into use once again.
5.04      The vacation period in Nicaragua was from mid-December to mid-Febru-
ary. The Ministry of Education has postponed the opening of schools in Managua
until May/June 1973. If this timetable is met, it will result in a loss of
only about 12 weeks out of the regular 1973 academic year.
5.05      In 1972 some 24,000 students were enrolled in secondary schools in
Managua, including 14,000 in public and 10,000 in private schools. It is
estimated that when instruction commences again in May/June 1973 approximately
18,000 secondary students will enroll in Managua and the rest in the provinces.



- 30 -
It is expected that the shortage of private school facilities and reduced
family incomes will cause many students to transfer to public schools, result-
ing in about 14,000 enrollments in public schools and only 4,000 in private
schools. Secondary school students who remain in the provinces will enroll
in institutions which the Government intends to operate on a double-shift
basis where necessary.
B.   The Project
5.06      The proposed reconstruction project for education consists of two
parts: Part I would provide for immediate secondary education needs and
could be implemented by June 1973; Part II would assist in meeting the more
long-run educational needs of Managua and could be implemented within two
years. The total project cost is estimated at US$3.0 million, and the pro-
posed Credit would cover US$2.0 million or 66% of the total, as follows:
Type and Number    Type of    Student  Enrollment  Total Cost  Credit Financing
of Institutions  Facilities   Places    Capacity         ($ m)           ($ m)
Part I:
-    Four General
Secondary
Schools
(Grades 7-
11)         Prefabricat-                   /1
ed         4,000        8,000-       0.48            0.43
Part II:
-    Two Multi-
lateral
Secondary
Schools
(Grades 7-                                 /1
11)         Permanent    2,900        5,800--      1.74            1.09
-    One Tech-
nical Insti-
tute (Grades                                              2
12-13)      Permanent       500         500        0.80 L          0.48
7,400     14,300        2.94            2.00
/1   In two shifts.
/2   Civil works and furniture only.



- 31 -
(i) Temporary Secondary Schools
5.07      Of the 14,000 secondary students expected to enroll in public schools
in Managua this year, some 6,000 could be accommodated in the two schools fi-
nanced under Loan No. 532-NI if they operate double shifts. The proposed
Credit would help to finance temporary accommodations for the remaining 8,000
students in four prefabricated classroom clusters to be erected by June 1973.
A total of 100 classrooms with a capacity of 4,000 places could accommodate
8,000 students in two shifts. The project would also include site development
and sanitary facilities and administration space. The Ministry of Education
has salvaged adequate furniture for the new schools; additional furniture
will be procured for the two existing schools financed under Loan No. 532-NI.
5.08      The prefabricated buildings would be of a type that are easily
disassembled. The Government intends to relocate them as primary schools in
rural areas when permanent secondary facilities are available in Managua.
With assistance from CONESCAL (the UNESCO regional school building center in
M4exico), the Government prepared specifications for these facilities. These
were reviewed and approved by the Association, tendered successfully and a
bid award has been made after approval by the Association. To expedite project
implementation, while ensuring competitive prices, bidding procedures were
simplified. The Government advertised the procurement and installation of
the temporary facilities through press announcements and notices to foreign
embassies; bidding and contract documents were reviewed by the Association;
and suitable sites have been selected and surveyed. The sites are outside
the center of the city and utilities are easily available.
5.09      The total cost of Part I of the project is estimated at US$0.48 mil-
lion, of which about 90% would be financed under the proposed Credit. This
relatively high percentage is justified on the basis of large foreign exchange
component and the lack of counterpart funds readily available. Retroactive
financing of up to US$150,000 is proposed to cover expenditures incurred
between March 1, 1973 and credit signing. The facilities are expected to be
in operation by June 1973.
5.10      The Project Unit which is implementing the first Bank education
Project would be responsible for implementation of Part I of the Reconstruc-
tion Project. Since the Government's technical services are overburdened
with the reconstruction needs, arrangements have been made for an architect
from CONESCAL to be seconded to the Ministry of Education to assist in
project implementation.
(ii) Permanent Secondary Schools and Technical Institute
5.11      To restore most of the public secondary school capacity destroyed
by the earthquake, the project provides for the construction, furnishing and
equipment of two multilateral secondary schools (Grades 7 - 11) with 1,450
student places each. Together with the three secondary schools (two com-
pleted, one contracted for construction) of the first Bank project, these
permanent facilities would provide Managua with 7,250 student places and an
enrollment capacity of 14,500 in two shifts.



- 32 -
5.12      The two new schools will offer a diversified curriculum, including
practical subjects such as woodwork, industrial arts and home economics for
students in all grades and prevocational streams in electricity, mechanics
and business education for students in the upper cycle (Grades 10 -11). In
addition to meeting urgent school space needs, these schools will introduce
the new diversified curriculum developed under the first project into all of
Managua's public secondary schools. Draft curricula, schedules of accommoda-
tion and furniture and equipment cost estimates based on the experience of
the first Project wfere reviewed by the appraisal mission and were found rea-
sonable; detailed data will be sent to the Association for comments in due
course.
5.13      The need for practice-oriented technical programs at the post-
secondary level has been emphasized by missions that have reviewed the
Nicaraguan education system. Therefore, the project provides for construction
and furnishing of a technical institute, which would offer two-year programs
(Grades 12 - 13) in; (a) civil engineering, water development and irrigation;
building construction; electrical power generation, distribution and install-
ation; mechnical engineering maintenance, agricultural engineering; food
technology; and (b) accountancy, data processing and office organization;
banking, insurance, management and marketing. The institute will have a
capacity of approximately 500 student places, including about 400 in the
technical fields and 100 in business education, and is expected to graduate
some 250 technicians annually.
5.14      The Government is negotiating with the U.K. Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) the provision of equipment and technical assistance to help
plan and establish the institute.  The institute would be similar to the one
operating in El Salvador with ODA assistance.  Preliminary schedules of ac-
comizmodation were discussed with an ODA mission in Nicaragua and the Mintstry
of Education; they will be further elaborated by ODA and will be sent to the
Association for comments.  Teachers for the institute wili be trainedi by ODA
in the El Salvadorean institute and overseas. ODA's contribution is expected
to be in the order of IUS$0.9 million, divided equally between equipment and
technical assistance. Final agreement between the Governments of Nicaragua
and Great Britain should be reached in late 1973, and it is proposed that
disbursement of Association funds for this project item be conditional upon
the signing of such an agreement satisfactory to the Association.
Cost Estimates
5.15      Estimates of the construction cost for Part II of the education
project were based on recent tenders for the first education project, i.e.
US$67 per m2. To this unit cost 20% was added to take into account the
specifications required for design with increased earthquake resistance
and the recent price increases in the construction industry. Consequently,
US$80 per m2 was used as the basic unit cost.  Contingencies have been added
to this equal to 22%, i.e. 10% for unforseen factors and 12% for expected
price increases.



- 33 -
5.16      Suitable sites for the two secondary schools and the technical
institute will be selected in consultation with the Association. The build-
ings would be designed by consultant architects and contracts for civil works,
furniture and equipment financed by the Association will be awarded according
to the Guidelines for international competitive bidding. Land would be part
of Government's contribution. The total cost of Part II of the education
component of the reconstruction project is estimated at US$2.5 million in-
cluding contingencies, of which US$1.57 million (62%) would be financed under
the proposed Credit, including foreign exchange costs of about US$1.41 mil-
lion and US$0.16 million of local currency costs (Annex 10). Any amount
remaining undisbursed upon completion of this part of the project would be
cancelled, unless its disbursement on other parts of the project covered by
the credit is considered appropriate.
C.   Executing Agency - Ministry of Education
5.17      The three institutions would be completed in about two years and
the Project Unit implementing the first education project will also be respon-
sible for the implementation of this project. The US$1.57 million will be
disbursed under normal procedures followed in the ongoing first education
project to meet: 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost of furniture and equip-
ment and 57% of the cost of civil works and professional fees. The proposed
credit of US$2.0 million for both Parts I and II of the reconstruction educa-
tion project will finance 67% of the total project cost and will meet the
foreign exchange component estimated at US$1.75 million and approximately 20%
of-the estimated local currency expenditures.
5.18      Since all schools of the proposed project will be public institutions
where only nominal fees are charged, the benefits from the favorable terms of
the proposed IDA Credit would accrue directly to a great number of people and
particularly to low-income groups that are the main users of public education
services. Considering the needs of public education in Nicaragua, these bene-
fits should remain within the public education sector of the country. No
separate project agreement is required for this component of the Credit since
the executing agency is a government ministry. The legal provisions specifical-
ly relevant to this component are contained in Sections 4.01 through 4.07 of
the draft Credit Agreement.



- 34 -
VI. WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
6.01      The water supply component of the reconstruction project consists
of the following items:
(a)  emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing install-
ations;
(b)  equipment and materials for rehabilitation and mainte-
nance work; and
(c)  some local cost financing of civil works under previous
Loan 808-NI.
A.   Earthquake Damage
6.02      The December earthquake severely damaged pipelines, service con-
nections, four concrete reservoirs and two pumping stations. It destroyed
the administration building, the warehouse and three steel reserviors. It
is estimated that about 50% of AGUADORA's former subscribers are no longer
registered consumers. The water authority also lost at least one month's
billings; collections are now less efficient (and will continue so in the
near future) because the incomes of many subscribers were interrupted. The
total cash flow deficit estimated by the January 1973 public utilities ap-
praisal mission and confirmed by their review in March is US$3.7 million.
This is primarily because of reduced household consumers whose incomes have
been interrupted. AGUADORA should return to its previous level of sales by
late 1974.
B.   The Project
6.03      To help alleviate the financial burden on AGUADORA resulting from
the drop in revenues and the extraordinary expenditures for repair and re-
habilitation work, it is recommended that US$1.0 million of the proposed
Credit be allocated to cover local and foreign costs of specific repair and
rehabilitation works (items (a) through (e) below), and the foreign exchange
expenditure for equipment and supplies for repair, rehabilitation and main-
tenance work.  It is also recormnended that US$1.5 million of the proposed
Credit be allocated to cover most of the local costs of civil works under
Loan 803-NI. The cost estimate is as follows:



- 35 -
SUMVARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Cost of Project      Proposed
L.C.   F.C.   Total  Credit Total
          US $ thousands 
(a)  Construct three steel reservoirs          17     40       55        55
(b)  Repair four concrete reservoirs          70      30      100       100
(c)  Correct unstable embankment             220      90      310       310
(d)  Secure Lake Asososca power line           10      -       10        10
(e)  Construct maintenance building and
Chlorination Station                    100      50     150        150
(f)  Leakage Survey                            -      50       50        50
(g)  Equipment and supplies                    -     200      200       200
(h)  Local costs of civil works
performed under Loan 808-NI        1,660       -   1,660      1,260
Sub-Total                             2,075    460   2,535       2,135
Contingencies:
Physical                             242      70     312        246
Price                                125      28     153        119
Total                                 2,442    558   3,000       2,500
Note:  Engineering services related to design and construction are being
financed with funds from Project 808-NI and are not included above.
Items (a) through (g) represent about 80% of the total cost of
rehabilitation, estimated to be US$1.2 million.
The proposed project was prepared and appraised in the field in January/
February 1973 and was reviewed by the Public Utilities Division in March 1973.
6.04      Procurement of the repair and rehabilitation work (items (a) through
(f) would not be by international competitive bidding since the work is not
of sufficient value to attract foreign competition and is of an emergency
nature. Disbursement would be against 100% of the cost of repair and rehabil-
itation work and equipment (items (a) through (g)), and 55% of the cost of
civil works executed under Loan 808-NI. Contracts for items (a), (b), (c)
and (d), and selected parts of item (g) (for details see Annex 12), have been
negotiated because of their emergency nature. These would be reviewed by
Bank staff and, if found satisfactory, would be financed retroactively up to
a limit of US$800,000. Any amount remaining undisbursed upon completion of
this part of the project would be cancelled, unless its disbursement on other
parts of the project covered by the credit is considered appropriate. This
part of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of total expenditures for
items (a) - (f). Disbursements for civil works would be 55% of total expen-
ditures.
C. Executing Agency - ACUADORA
6.05      Public water supply for Managua has expanded considerably during
the last twenty years. The proportion of the population with easy access



- 36 -
to piped water rose from 59% in 1956 to 77% in 1970, in the increase in the
city's population from 155,500 to 377,360 over the same period.
COVERAGE OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN MANAGUA
1956    1960    1963    1966    1970
Distribution network, kms               104     141      168      365     516
Number of connections '000               11       13      15       21       31
Percent metered                    44       67       84     100      100
Number of consumers:
'000 /a                            92      112     130      179      252
Percent of city's population       59       57       55      62       69
/a   Includes consumers who purchase water from standpipes controlled by
concessionaires.
Source:   Central Bank and IBRD
6.06      Prior to the earthquake, the distribution network covered practically
all built-up areas of the city compared to about 40% in the early 1960's.
Large industrial users of water in Managua still maintain private water systems
based on the pumping of groundwater. This practice developed in the past be-
cause many industrial plants were located outside of the ACIUADOP'is service
area and because of frequent interruption of service during hours of peak
demand resulting from insufficient capacity. A project financed undler IDA
Credit 26-NI and which was successfully implemented in the period 1963-66,
improved the reliability of the service considerably.
6.07      At the end of 1972, about 95% of the AGUADORA's water came from
Lake Asososca, a volcanic crater at the western edge of Managua, and the re-
inaining 5% from three wells at Altamira on the Masaya Highway just south of
the city. Lake Asososca is fed mainly by undergrotmd water and has an esti-
mated long-term dependable yield of 20 Mgd.  Both the Lake Asososca and
Altamira well waters are chemically and bacteriologically excellent. and chlori-
nation is the only treatment needed and provided. Water is drawn from Lake
Asososca by a pumping station in the crater, which supplies the low-service
zone and two high-service pumping stations on the crater's rim. The extent
of the service zones is established by topography. The low-service zone serves
the downtown and industrial areas of Managua, while the other zones supply pri-
marily residential areas. The total storage capacity of the distribution
system is 11 million gallons; peak demand is met by this storage and by pumping
from Lake Asososca. There are eight booster pumping stations at various
points in the system to serve outlying and high areas.
6.08      In early 1972, the AGUADORA embarked on a three-year, US$10 million
program to develop and expand water sources, extend transmission and distri-
bution facilities, construct a new administration building and provide manage-
ment consulting services. On March 7, 1972, a Bank Loan (Loan No. 808-NI)
of US$6.9 million was approved to cover the foreign exchange costs of this



- 37 -
project. AUGADORA was in the early stages of this project when the earth-
quake hit.  Its technical, financial and managerial performance had been ex-
emplary and all indicators pointed to a successful project. Engineering de-
signs were nearing completion and major civil works and supply contracts were
to have been bid in the second quarter of 1973. As a result of the financial
aid provided under the proposed IDA Credit, AGUADORA is expected to be returned
to its previously sound financial position by 1977.
6.09      Although Managua's overall water supply system is good, some slum
areas were not receiving potable water. Other areas, inhabited by about 2%
of the city's population, were served by community standpipes operated by
private individuals who purchased water from the AGUADORA at 02 per 1,000
gallons and resold at 05 per 1,000 gallons. AGUADORA has formulated a pro-
gram of water supply for these low-income areas and the Association has ac-
cepted it, subject to some technical revisions.
6.10      The US$2.5 million would be lent to the Government of Nicaragua,
which would onlend the funds to AGUADORA at a term of 20 years, including
six years of grace, interest free, during which time the AGUADJORA is expected
to recover to its formerly healthy financial position and at an interest rate
of 7-1/4% from the seventh year forward.  Repayments by AUAUlDORA would be made
directly into the low-income sites and services/housing fund (para 3.24), as
is also the case for the power and industry components of the project.
Government will repay the IDA Credit from general revenues.



- 38 -
VII. POWER COMPONENET
7.01      The power component of the reconstruction project consists of the
following items:
a)   emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing
installations;
b)   extension of existing distribution network; and
c)   primary and secondary distribution facilities,
transmission systems and substations, office
buildings, warehouses, workshops, vehicles and
equipment in ENALUF's 1973-74 work program.
A.   Earthquake Damage
7.02      The December earthquake caused some damage to the thermal plant
on the south shore of Lake Managua, the substations adjoining the thermal
plant and Managua's distribution network. The transmission system remained
intact. The cost of repairing the damage to these installations is estimated
at US$1.7 million. In addition because of the fact that a large part of the
population and some small industry and commercial enterprises have moved to
areas surrounding Managua, ENALUF will have to extend its distribution net-
work and expand some of the substations at an estimated cost of US$1.4 million.
7.03      In 1972 maximum demand (124 MW) and energy generated (630 GWh)
exceeded ENALUF's projections by 7.8% and 0.8%, respectively. However it is
estimated that in 1973 consumption of electricity will not exceed 480 GWh,
because of the loss of more than 30,000 customers following the earthquake.
This situation will adversely affect ENALUF's financial position in 1973
and probably in 1974, due to the increase in operating costs attributed to
higher fuel consumption and the reduction in sales. As a consequence, ENALUF's
cash flow deficit is estimated at approximately US$5.3 million in 1973 and
US$2.7 million in 1974 (Annexl9). The Bank Group will review ENALUF's finan-
cial situation quarterly until the power authority returns to its previous
sound financial position.
B.   The Project
7.04      To help alleviate the financial burden on ENALUF resulting from
the drop in revenues, from increased operating costs and from the extraordinary
expenditures required for repair work, it is recommended that US$5.0 million
of the proposed Credit be provided, as follows:



- 39 -
Cost of Project       Proposed Credit
L.C.   F.C.  Total           Total
-------       (US$ million) -----------
a)   Repairs of existing
installations           0.4    1.3    1.7                1.7
b)   Extension of distri-
bution network          0.4    1.0    1.4                1.0
c)   Other construction       1.0    1.9    2.9               1.9
d)   Contingencies            0.2    0.5    0.7               0.4
Total                   2.0    4.7    6.7                5.0
7.05      Repairs of the existing distribution network are being carried out
outside the central zone of Managua, with the exception of some repairs on
primary distribution feeders which cross sections of the city most devastated
by the earthquake and which supply some public buildings still operating in
that zone.
7.06      The proposed financing would cover 76% of the total cost of works
related to the earthquake (i.e. repairs and extensions) and of ENALUF's
annual 1973/74 construction program, which was appraised in 1972 for loan
840-NI and which was reviewed by the Public Utilities Division of LAC in
March 1973. Details of the Project and the cost estimates are given in
Annexes 13 through 15. The proposed Credit would cover 100% of the foreign
cost and 20% of the local currency cost of the Project.
7.07      The US$5 million would be lent to the Government of Nicaragua,
which would relend the funds to ENALUF for a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, interest free, during which time ENALUF is expected
to recover to its formerly healthy financial position and at an interest
rate of 7 1/4% from the sixth year forward.
7.08      Certain existing contracts have been extended to include emergency
repairs to the thermal plant and substations. These contracts and the extent
of repairs have been reviewed by the Association and would be financed
retroactively tip to a limit of USS600*,fl. All new contracts for equipment
approved after loan signing would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and contracting of consultants' services would follow
normal Bank procedures. In light of the Central American Agreement on
Fiscal Incentives to Industrial Development (1969), equipment manufacturers
from the Central American Common Market would be allowed a preference of either
15% of the c.i.f. price or 50% of the applicable import duty, whichever is
the lower.



- 40 -
C.   Executing Agency - ENALUF
7.09      Practically all public electric service in Nicaragua is provided
by the Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza (ENALUTF), an autonomous public
corporation established in 1954. There are still some 30 small private
companies and municipal entities, but in the next few years most of these
are expected to be absorbed by ENALUF or merged into distribution cooperatives.
The Bank has made eight loans to ENALUF since 1953, aggregating US$66.3 million,
which have assisted in financing practically all of ENALUF's expansion in
generation and transmission facilities.
7.10      In 1972 ENALUT's installed generating capacity totalled 213 MW
including:
Hydro           100zm
Thermal          75MW
Diesel           24MW
Gas              14MW
TOTAL           21 3MW
ENALUF's transmission system consists cf 463 kms of 138 MI lines and 326 kms
of 69 KV lines, connecting the various electric plants with the main consumer
centers.  During 1972 approximately 62% of FNALUF's total sales went to
Managua, of which about 44% was accounted for by industrial consumption, 27%
bv domestic consumption and 15% by coimercial consumption.
7.11      Prior to the earthquake, ENALTUF was in a sound financial position
and its overall performance was satisfactory. However, some problems have
been developing with respect to organization. In particular, there is a lack
of efficient coordination between its technical and financial depattments.
To improve the organization, ENALUF has agreed to select management consultants
by June 30, 1973, with Terms of Reference and selection of consultants
acceptable to the Association. Project execution, as well as the other com-
ponents of the Reconstruction Project, will be expedited by stationing an
Associatlon representative in the field for approximately one year.
Disbursements
7.12      IDA would make quarterly disbursements against the percentage of
work completed under the categories described above. Estimated disburse-
ments are shown in Annex18. The Public Utilities Division of LAC will
supervise execution of the project more intensively than the usual level
of supervision. Any amount remaining undisbursed upon completion of this
part of the project would be cancelled, unless its disbursement on other
parts of the project covered by the credit is considered appropriate.
Disbursements for the civil works contract(s) would be made against 75X of
the contractor's periodic statements of works performed substantiated by
invoices and certification by engineer. Disbursements for equipment and
materials would he for 100% of CIF costs (if imported) or gn0  of local
f-<-enditures.



- 41 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following issues
with respect to the sites and services component of the project:
(a)  the portion of the Credit for sites and services,
US$8.0 million equivalent, shall be provided by Govern-
ment to Banco de la Vivienda on a grant basis (para. 3.16);
(b) Government will supply the land for all components of the
reconstruction project, whose location and price are
acceptable to the Association, and all remaining inputs
other than those financed by the Association, necessary
to the project including staff for the community facilities
(para. 3.17);
(c) Banco de la Vivienda shall:
(i) provide sites and services to recipients on the
basis of 22 year lending at 5% interest per
annum (para. 3.15);
(ii) convey a mortgaged title to recipients as soon
as the first additional room is built, and in-
spected and approved by the INVI Department
(para. 3.26);
(iii) make its INVI Department responsible for
executing this project component and expand the
latter's staff by adding a resident engineer,
three technical assistance foremen, two inspectors
and two social workers per 750 to 1,000 serviced
lots; these persons should reside on location for
at least two years commencing with the beginning
of construction of the core units (para. 3.22);
(iv) hire for the INVI staff a senior architect,
engineer and sociologist responsible exclusively
for the sites and services project and hire three
advisors, acceptable to the Association, and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(paras. 3.21 and 3.22);
(v) maintain separate accounts for the project in a
form acceptable to the Association (para. 3.23);



- 42 -
(vi)  establish a low-cost sites and services/housing
fund consisting of all sites and services repayments
and the repayments from AGUADORA1 ENALUF and INFONAC
for the water supply, power and industrial components
(para. 3.24);
(vii)  select site and services beneficiaries according
to the following criteria: (a) they were displaced
by the earthquake, and (b) have household income of
less than 41,100 per month (para. 3.25);
(viii)  reserve at least 30% of the serviced sites for
families with household income of less than 4500
per month (para. 3.25).
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following issues
with respect to the indu*tties component of the project:
(a)  Government shall relend to INFONAC the industrial financing
portion of the Credit, US$2.5 million equivalent, for up to
12 years at 6.75% interest per annum with a three-year interest
free grace period (para 4.14);
(b) INFONAC shall:
(i)  relend for plant, equipment or buildings for small
to medium scale industries to be established in
Nicaragua's secondary cities (para. 4.14);
(ii)  relend at not less than 8.75% interest per annum
for not more than 10 years including a three year
grace period (para. 4.14);
(c)  INFONAC shall also:
(i)  maintain separate accounts for the Credit (para. 4.11);
(ii)  cause $300,000 of the Credit to be reserved for sub-
projects for the preparation of industrial sites and
services in the secondary cities;
(iii)  formulate, or engage consultants to formulate,
a program for improving INFONAC's internal organiza-
tion, operating procedure and accounting system, in
particular to separate its industrial and agricultural
portfolios, and its research and development programs
(para. 4.12).



- 43 -
8.03      During negotiations, agreement on the following issues was
reached with respect to the water and power components of the project:
(a) the portion of the Credit for water supply, US$2.5 million
equivalent shall be relent by the Government to AGUADORA
for a term of 20 years, including six years of grace interest
free and an interest rate of 7 1/4% from the seventh year
forward (para 6.10);
(b)  the portion of the Credit for power, US$5.0 million
equivalent, shall be relent by the Government to ENALUF
for a term of 20 years including five years of grace,
interest free during the first five years and an interest
rate of 7 1/4% from the sixth year forward (para 7.07).
8.04      The proposed emergency reconstruction project components, which
are part of a larger reconstruction program and planning effort still being
formulated, constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$20.0 million
equivalent to the Government of Nicaragua.






BACKGROUND
ANNEX 1
Page 1
URBAN EMPLOYMENT
The economically active urban populations in 1963 and 1971 are
shown below:
Table 1: Economically Active Urban Populations
(000)
Manufacturing           Total
1963     1971     1963       1971
Nicaragua         45.7     48.1    189.4      241.0
Managua           20.7     22.5      76.6     114.3
Refugee Depts.        12.7     12.4      47.6      55.5
Leon               4.63     3.69    19.42      21.06
Masaya             3.60     3.93    11.94      14.00
Granada            3.21     3.58    10.74      12.19
Carazo             1.26     1.21     5.48       8.27
Source:  Population Census (10% sample) 1971.
There was virtually no growth reported in the manufacturing labor
force of the refugee cities between 1963 to 1971, while manufacturing employ-
ment increased by almost 2,000 in Managua. Similarly, while the total urban
labor force grew by only about 2,000 in each refugee city in the same period,
it increased by 38,000 in Managua. Thus, three-fourths of the increase
in the total urban labor force occurred in Managua between 1963 to 1971.
Total manufacturing employment growth has slowed down significantly from the
3% annual rate between 1950 and 1963. It grew from 1963 to 1971 at only
about 1% annually. Thus, employment growth was low because productivity
gains accounted for most of the output growth, as organized industry replaced
artisan industry.
The ratios of the manufacturing labor force to the total urban
labor force and to the total urban population for each Department are shown
in Table 2 below. As a basic framework for considering employment linkages
to the proposed sites and services, the historical ratio of 75 manufacturing
jobs providing the support base per 1,000 population (13:1) has been used.



BACKGROUND
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Table 2:  Ratios of Manufacturing Labor Force
Manufacturing Labor Force
Total Urban   Total Urban
Labor Force   Population
Nicaragua
Managua                        .197           .057
Refugee Depts.
Leon                      .175           .046
Masaya                     .281          .074
Granada                   .293           .077
Carazo                    .139           .037
Other Major Depts.
Chinandega                               .089
Rivas                     .163           .038
Matagalpa
Source: Population Census, 1971.
The percentage of the total labor force in manufacturing in
Managua (20%) is lower than that in the two small industrial cities of Masaya
and Granada for two reasons: (i) Central Government employment is concentrated
almost exclusively in Managua; and ii) Managua provides many services, such
as financial services, construction and trade to most of Nicaragua, rather
than only to the local population. The percentage of the labor force in
manufacturing is low in Leon, Carazo, Rivas, etc. because these are largely
agricultural trade centers that are still under-industrialized relative to
their urban populations, i.e. not even relatively self-sufficient in terms of
self-production or simple consumer goods nor export-oriented to the rest of
the country.
The concentration of manufacturing in Managua was predominant even
in 1964 as shown in Table 3 below.



BACKGROUND
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 3: Geographical Distribution of
Manufacturing Industry
(5 or more workers)
% of     No. of      % of
Value Production           Total    Workers    Total
(Millions of Cordobas)
Nicaragua                       899.7                100       24,241      100
Managua                          515.7                57       10,659       44
Refugee Depts.
Leon                        44.5                  5        1,783        7
Granada                     31.1                  3        1,062        4
Masaya                      14.5                  2          800        3
Carazo                      30.9                  3          882        4
Others
Chinandega                 171.6                 19        5,515       22
Rivas                        5.8                  1          270        3
Matagalpa                   42.6                  5          263        1
Source: Central Bank Census of Industries (1964).






SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 1
Design Standards, Cost Estimates and Unit Costs
Attributable to Households
A.        The basis for arriving at the cost estimates shown in para. 3.14,
Table I, is as follows:
1.        Land:  The land values for the proposed sites are about 02-3 per
square vara (US$0.43-0.63 per sq. meter) in the secondary cities (see Table
I below). The book figures in Cadastral office showed the particular sites
in Leon, Granada, and Masaya at one-sixth to one-tenth of the 03/sq vara
that the mission estimated; the latter figure is the estimated real market
value and has been used for costing purposes. A figure of 08/sq vara has
been used for the Managua site. Negotiations for the purchase of all five
sites are underway and are expected to be completed shortly. 1/ In Table 1
a unit land cost attributable and repayable by households of US$200 for Managua
and an average of US$75 for the secondary cities is shown. It has been
derived from the calculations shown in columns (8) and (9) of Table 1 below.
The total land cost of US$903,000 shown in para. 3.14 for the Managua site
of 2,750 lots and corresponding land for circulation and community facilities
was obtained as followst
Managua Land Requirements -  No. of lots -       2,750
net density   35 lots/manzana
- 79 manzanas x 08/sq vara
or 080,000/manzana
- 06.32 million
= US$903,000
A similar calculation was made to obtain the US$399,000 land costs shown in
phra. 3.14, Table t for the 3,250 lots in the secondary cities using an average
land price of 03 per square vara. Total land requirements for the sites in
the secondary cities are 93 manzanas.
1/   The ultimate prices should be somewhat less than the mission's deliberately
conservative estimates, according to latest information from Nicaraguan
officials.






EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
SITES & SERVICES PROJECT
Land Costs of Proposed Sites A
In Cordobas                                                                           US$
Per                                           US$      Cordobas      Cordobas       us$         Unit Land
Square Per Manzana  Per Ha.    Per Acre    Per Acre  Per Sq Meter  Per Lot         Per Lot   Costs Attributable
Vlara    (2) =        (3) =      (4) =       (5) =      (6) =          (7) =  /2  (8) =      to Households  3
(1)   (l)x 10,000  (2)xl.45   (3) .. 2.47  (4) - 7   (1) x 1.45    (6) x llio- (7).: 7        (9)   (8) x 1.1
Leon    (a) 3.0       30,000    43,500      17,611       2,516         4.35         478.5       68.4             75.3
(b) 0.78       7,840    11,368       4,602
Granada (a) 2.0       20,000    29,000      11,74]-      1,677         2.9          319         45.6             50.2
(b) 0.3066     3,o66     4,446       1,780
Masaya  (a) 2.5       25,000    36,250      14,676       2,097         3.63          399        56.9             62.6
(b) 0.5011     5,011     7,266       2,942
Jinotepe(a) 3.0       30,000   143,500      17,611       2,516         4.35         478.5       68.4             75.3
Managua (a) 8.o       80,000   116,000      46,9614      6,709        11.60       1,276        182.3            200.5
(a) = Mission estimates after discussions on market values.
(b) = Cadastral values.
Aj   Cadastral values for Leon, Granada, Masaya are one-sixth to one-tenth the mission estimates.
/2    Lot size is 110 m2
/3    Land costs attributable to households are lots (110 m2) plus 1/2 of the circulation area (roads, footpaths).
Lots represent 55% of total site area and circulation 20%.  Consequently, Column (8) has been increased by
10% (1/2 circulation) to obtain Column (9).                                                                                L wi
(DrolXg
April 12, 1973






SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 3
2.   Site Preparation:
(a) Topographical costs represent only 1% of total project costs
because of the extensive topographical maps in various scales
already available for each of the five sites. A detailed
topographical survey, however, will be required with contour
maps of 1:50.
(b) Earthworks: The volume of earthmoving required depends upon
the terrain. Each of the five sites chosen have a flat terrain
with good topsoil. On the average, it will be necessary to
remove one-third of a cubic meter of topsoil. Unit costs for
comparable earthworks in Nicaragua approximate US$1 per cubic
meter. Consequently, a 110 m2 lot will require 37 m of earth-
moving. Earthwork costs attributable to the household are
therefore $37 for the lot and $4 for the 1/2 circulation costs
attributable. Total earthworks for the site are estimated on
the following basis:
6,000 lots x $37                              US$222,000
Lots represent 55% of site area
Earthworks required on the remaining
45% of site area for circulation and
community facilities = 222,000 x 45  =           182,000
55
US$404,000
The earthworks included here is simply for the removal of
total site topsoil. The amount of earthworks required for
streets and footpath construction is included in their
respective infrastructure components below.
3.   Infrastructure
(a) Urbanization Works
(i) Streets and footways
In each site an allowance has been made for a collector
road which will carry bus traffic. It will be a seven-
meter roadway with a double bituminous surface treatment.
Minor streets will have a five-meter roadway with single
surface treatment. Footpaths of two meters will also
be provided. The costs of the roadworks and footways
are estimated at $108.21 per lot (see details in Table
II below) or US$649,000 total costs.



SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(ii) Water Distribution System
Individual water supply will be provided to each lot
serving a w.c., shower and pilar (washing) unit. A
half-inch water service will be provided to each lot.
The costs per lot of water supply reticulation (6" and
4" pipes) are estimated at US$37.90 (see details in Table
II below). Capitalizing as part of the project the water
meter costs of US$9, the unit costs to a household are
$46.90 for water supply. Total costs are therefore
6,000 x $46.9 = $281,000. Annex 6, Figures 1-2 show the
preliminary designs for the water supply (agua potable)
system for the project sites in Leon and Granada,
(iii) Sewerage
All lots will have individual sanitary units and sewerage
facilities. The costs of the sanitary unit are shown under
lot development below. The design of the sewer system is
based on 80% of the water supplied reaching the sewers plus
an allowance for infiltration. This is the calculated dry
weather flow designed to give a capacity of three times
the dry weather flow. The trunk infrastructure costs for
the sewerage, utilizing pipes of 6 and 8 inches, are
estimated at US$57.39 per lot (see details in Table 2
below) or US$344,000 total costs.  Annex 6 figures 3 and
4 show the preliminary designs for the project's sewerage
system in Masaya and Jinotepe.
(iv) Drainage
The design criteria for surface water drainage is based
on a storm intensity of three inches per hour and a
permeability factor of .7 - .85. Along the surfaced
carriageways, gulleys and piped drainage will be provided
in passages and other areas open channels will be used.
The surface water drainage costs are estimated at $30.77
per lot (see details in Table 2 below) or US$184,O00
total costs.



SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 5
(v) Electricity and Street Lighting
The usual practice is for a municipality to request ENALUF
to install street lighting and enter into an agreement to
pay for the installation and running costs. In order to
avoid delays, and because the municipalities have no funds
available, street lighting has been allowed for in the
capital costs of the project, estimated by ENALUF at
040 per lot.
The capital cost of installing a power connection in a
house and meter board is ¢110 of which 070 is refundable
property. Therefore, 040 per lot is included in the capital
costs of the project.
Electric wiring allowing for 3 switches, 3 drop socket
outlets and 2 plug sockets is estimated by ENALUP at
¢120.
The above 3 items total 0200 or US$28.57 per lot yielding
US$171,000 for the 6,000 lots.






atkRTHQUJAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTI  - -TCARATUA
INTPASTRUCTIJRE - URBANIZATIGN COSTS
Basic Group of 364 Li    Lots
Component                     Specifications                Quantity    Unit Cost   Total       Sub Total   Per Lot
Us$       us$          us$         us$
1. Roads                                                                        /                          (Sub-totals di-
a.  Bus Ccllector Roads   13 meter road reserve for        150 meters    42 A   o,300                   vided by 364)
a 7 meter surfaced carri-
ageway double bituminous
surface treatmte,it.
b.  Minor Roads            9 meter reserve for a 5
meter single surface treat-
ment including cul-de-sacs
and access roads.              630 meters,    35 /2  22.y050
c.  Footpaths              2 meters, non-surfaced.         lump sum /3    -      11,040      39,390         108.21
2. Water Distribution
Pipes                  6 inches; asbestos cement       350 meters      8      2,800
Pipes                  4 inches; asbestos cement   1,332 meters        6      7,992
Fire Hydrants          6 inches                          3           400      1,200
Fire Hydrants          4 inches                          9           200      1,800
13,792          37.90
3. Sewerage
Pipes                  8 inches; asbestos cement   1,022 meters        7      7,154
Pipes                  6 inches; asbestos cement   1,300 meters        5      6,500
Manholes               Heavy duty                        8           200      1,600
Manholes               Light duty                       31           150      4,650
Connections                                             27            25        675
Rodding Eyes                                            52             6        312
20,891          57.39
4. Surface Water Drainage
Open channels                                        1,000             5      5,000
Head walls                                              20            15        300
Pipes                  24 inches                       200 meters    25       5,000
Manholes                   -                             6           150        goo
____________________________________ ________________ _  11,200  30.77
A    Consists of 26 Clusters of 14 lots each.  Quantities for the basic group of 364 lots were arrived at after
discussions with Nicaraguan engineers and quantity surveyors.
/2   Includes road reserve, tarmac, surface water drainage.                                                                 a
/3   Quantities for footpaths will only be known when detailed design and engineering is complete.  A lump s-wm             ro  rJ
of US$30 per lot ($11,040 for 364 lots) has been provided based upon experience elsewhere.






SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 7
(b) Clustering
The lot layout has been designed on a cluster basis in order
to avoid the static, "barracks" appearance of many low-cost
housing projects. Fourteen lots will be clustered around a
small open space, with a cluster size of 45 x 40 meters.
The costs attributable to this clustering are:
Costs
Per 14 lots
US$
Open Space                                              150
8" Concrete Tube Sewers                                 225
2 Manholes                                              255
Sewerage Connecting to the Lot Boundary                 210
2" p.v.c. Water Pipes                                   161
Water Connections                                       350
Surface Water Drainage                                  155
Roads (620 meters at $8 per meter)                      112
1 .618
Divided by 14 for unit cost attributable to
household on the premise that the household
pays for full custering costs                           115.57
Therefore, costs for 6,000 lots = US$693,000.
4.   Lot Development:  Construction costs on lot development are estimated
to consist of about 60% materials and 40% labor costs. The breakdown of
the sanitary unit cost of $233 shown in Table I is as follows:
Sanitary Core Unit                     Cordobas         US$
Foundations                                125           18
Walls (concrete blocks)                    408          58
Horizontal reinforcements                   14            2
Columns                                    223          32
Beams                                      186          27
Floors                                      70           10
Roof                                        60            9
Doors, windows and hardware                100           15
Plumbing 1/2"                               88           13
Sewerage, including pilar                  116          17
Toilet, etc.                               225          32
TOTAL              1,615          233



SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 8
The breakdown of the US$836 costs for the sanitary core unit and minimum
shelter unit shown in Table 1 is as follows:
Sanitary Core Unit and Minimum Shelter Unit        Cordobas      US$
Cleaning and levelling                                  45          7
Foundations                                            287         41
Walls                                                1,400        200
Column                                                 345         49
Bathroom columns                                       223         32
Sec. Columns                                           146         21
Horizontal Reinforcements                               90         13
Total Bond Beam                                        720        103
Floors                                                 630         90
Roofs                                                  810        115
Doors, windows and hardware                            380         54
Plumbing                                                88         13
Sewerage including pilar                               132         19
Bathroom Fixtures                                      225         31
Kitchen                                                160         23
Electricity                                            180         25
TOTAL                5,861        836
The total costs for lot development shown in Table   were arrived at as
follows:
Sanitary Core Unit:       6,000 lots x $233  =  1,398,000
Minimum Shelter Unit:    5,500 lots x $603  =  3,317,000
Since materials are estimated to constitute about 60% of the $603 minimum
shelter unit costs, a household materials fund of $360 per lot will be provided
for the 500 lots without minimum shelter unit in the pilot program Yielding
a total cost of US$180,000 on these lots.
5.   Comaunity Fac_lltes
(a)  Schools:  The project includes classroom facilities for
primary schooling for all eligible children on the basis
of 17% of the population being of primary school age.
The land requirements for a six-classroom primary school
are approximately 4,200 sq meters whose costs are included
in the total land costs above. The $29,000 capital costs
per school are derived as follows:
us$
Building (6 classrooms at $4,000
per classroom)            2          24,000
Infrastructure costs (4,200
at $1.2 per m )           5,040
$29,040
Total costs for 12 schools   =         $348,000



SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 9
(b) Clinics: Provision has been made for 250 sq meter health clinics.
the land requirements amount to approximately 400 sq meters, and
have been included in the total land costs above. Capital costs
per clinic building are estimated as follows:
US$
Building (250 m  at $60 per m )               15,000
Infrastructure costs (400 m 2 at $1.2
per m)                    480
$15,480
Total costs for 12 clinics    =             $186,000
(c)  Community Meeting House/Child Care Centers:  The project allows
for a community center to be provided for every 500 families,
each center to consist of a meeting room/chapel, two special-
purpose rooms, administration room and sanitary facilities.
A 220 sq meter building on 1,000 square meters of land is estimated
to cost as follows:
US $
Building costs of $60 per m      2            13,200
Infrastructure costs of (1,000 m  ai
$1.2 per m)          1.200
$14,400
Total costs for 12 community houses         $173,000
Community centers could rapidly be adapted for use as child
care centers or pre-primary schools to help widows of the
earthquake often having four or five dependents.
(d)  Markets/Commercial Services:  An allowance has been made for
an area of 1,000 sq meters to be set aside as a market for
every 500 families. The sites will probably be chosen by
the people themselves and provision has been made in the cost
estimates for surfacing and draining the area and for water
supply and washing facilities at a total cost of US$4,180 excluding
land. Total costs for 12 markets are therefore $50,000. A
large proportion of the lots will probably convert to
shopping or commercial uses; but for design purposes an
allowance has been made for grouped commercial facilities on
the basis of one shop per 25 households. An allowance has
been made at the rate of 4 ha of land for every 1,000 house-
holds.



SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 2
Page 10
6.   Detailed EnRineering and Construction Supervision:  Calculated on the
basis of 6% and 3% fees respectively of costs for site preparation, infra-
structure, lot development and community facilities, the estimated costs
are $763,000. Unit costs attributable to households amount to US$110 cal-
culated on the same items, excluding community facilities, and divided by
6,000.
7.   Technical Assistance:  40 man-months of advisory staff (engineer,
sociologist, architect) $4,000 per man-month - $160,000.
B.   Calculation of Household's Monthly Payments
The monthly payments shown in para. 3.15 were derived as follows:
Table 3. Calculation of Household's Monthly Payments
(US$)
Unit costs Attri-                  /1Capital to Repay Monthly
butable to Households Do!MayMen_t-' PaRt 
Managua Lot                      1,845                92            1,753        10,9 4
>jot in Secondary
Cities                           1,720                86            1,634       10.22-
/'I  5% of unit costs attributable to households.  The amnounts are equivglemt
to about ei,ght monthly payments.
X K    >2 ,c^ated on a mortgage Woan for 22 years with 5% compournd interest com-
eU ox- the _nionthll.an  e, namely, 264 payment poriods and on
niontOlv capital recovery factor of .0062528075. This system, whtch is
u'TNntly employeed by Banco Vivienda, works to the advantage of house-
c Idr as compared wl th the more cormon system of coroputing the
arnual pavm,ent on rhe yinvaid annual balance and dividing it into 12 equal
.81tOntty paiert.s, xIn thlis latter case, the monthtly payment wuld be
US$11.10 for a Managua lot, or $0.14 higher than in the above table.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCY -
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA (BVN)
Organization, Operations and Financial Situation
1.        The operations of Bumco de la Vivienda (BVN) date back to 1959
when Banco Hipotecario, a bank which made loans to industry and agriculture,
was converted into a National Housing Institute, Instituto bicaraguense de
la Vivienda, INVI, (Decree No. 46, March 19, 1959). Between 1959-1966 INVI
constructed about 5,000 housing units in the low-middle cost range (US$1,500 -
4,000) financed partly by loans from IDB. On June 1, 1966 by means of
Presidential Decree No. 1192, the Government created a new organization,
Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua, incorporating two new departments in
addition to the INVI department:
- Savings and Loan Department, CACE
(Caja Central de Ahorro y Prestamo)
- Mortgage Insurance Department, FRA
(Fomento de Hipotecas Aseguradas)
2.        A USAID loan of $3.7 million as seed capital for the Savings and
Loan Department formed an integral part of the broadening of INVI operations
into the BVN organization. Since then AID's Housing Investment guarantee
program has provided funds to the Mortgage Insurance Department (FHA) and
IDB has continued to finance a portion of INVI's operations. Table 1 below
lists the loans made by USAID and IDB to BVN (or INVI prior to 1966) in the
last ten years amounting to US$25 million.
Table 1
(millions of Cordobas)
AKency                           Date of Loan    Loan Amount   Amt. Undisbursed
IDB                                  1962             5.2
IDB                                  1965             5.3
AID (Savings and Loans)          June, 1966           3.7                -
AID (Housing Investment
Guarantee Program)         Oct., 1969            4.0               1.5
IDB                             Nov., 1971            7.0               3.0
25.2               4.5
3.        The National Housing Bank is a soundly managed institution
enJoying a healthy financial situation compared to similar housing institu-
tions in many countries. Separate accounting and lines of responsibility
have been maintanied by the BVN management for each of the three departments.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
BVN's operations are quite diverse spanniag the housing sector through its
three departments.  The diagram below depicts this financing process and the
roles played by BVN's three departments in the housing sector:
House
Developer / Seller
INVI or others                FHA
provides mortgage
insurance
House Buyer <               > Savings & Loan Association
originates mortgages
CACE - discounts mortgages
WACE does not make direct loans to households, this being the function of
the three savings and loan associations:
- Financiera de la Vivienda, S.A.
- Centroamericana de Ahorro y Prestamo, S.A.
- Imobiliaria de Ahorro y Prestamo, S.A.
In 1972 CACE "discounted" US$11 million worth of mortgages by aaking direct
loans to these savings and loan associations. FHA provided mortgage insurance
to about 4/5 of the 120 mortgages originated by the savings and loan
associations. FHA does not conduct any secondary market mortgage operations.
4.        Since 1969 the INVI Department has been concentrating its attention
on low-income housing needs with the completion in 1971 of the.two projects
in Managua of a thousand units each (primero de Mayo, Unidad de Proposito)
mentioned in para 3.19. INVI concluded individual "tenant-purchase" con-
tracts with the 2,000 families whereby thev acquire ownership after 22 years
when they have fully paid their monthly payments of principal (6%) and insurance,
interest amounting to 071 (US$10.1) per month. During the payment perioa
the family can only transfer the house to other family members or friends
who then assume the remaining payments obligations and the right to the house
thereafter. This tenant-purchase system has the advantage to INVI that the
family is discouraged from abandoning the houge because the past payments
become much like rent paid except that the family will obtain from INVI the
difference between the assessed rental value of the house at the time of
abandonment and the sum total of its payinents discounted at the market rate
of interest. The disadvantage of transfer of ownership being made only after
20 odd years is that the family is uct induced to consolidate the basic
house (extend the area under roof and build additional rooms inside). Ac-
cording to the proposed project agreement for the sites and services project,
families would be offered mortgages at 20-year terms carrying a 5% rate of
interest. Ownership will be transferred, after consolidation takes place to
the extent of the first self-help reom beirng built, inspected and approved
by INVI.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.        BVN's financial position is sound.  Table 1 shows BVN's actual
balance sheets for 1970-71 and estimates for 1972. BVN's total assets/equity
and liabilities in 1971 amounted to 0285 million ($40.7 million) and about
0339 million ($48.4 million) just prior to the earthquake. The debt/equity
ratio is 2.4. Table 2 shows BVN's Income Statement, 1970-72. Total
revenues have been increasing by about 20% per annum mainly because of the
interest due from the substantial increase in mortgage loans granted during
1971 and 1972. Operating income constituted 31% of total revenues in 1971
and is estimated to amount to a s;imilar proportion in 1972. By year-end
1972, BVN's undivided profits are estimated to amount to 026.6 million ($3.8
million). In accordance with Article 9 of the 1966 law establishing BVN, the
Board of Directors is required to make an accounting distribution of the annual
operating income. Furthermore, the June 1966 contract agreement with AID
requires the annual operating income of each operating department to be
retained by that department for future projects. Nevertheless, to date the
accumulated profits have still not been distributed. In accordance with
Article 10 of the BVN's Organic Law the Government must absorb any operating
loss that the INVI Department may suffer in the year following that in which
the operating loss was experienced. Althoug the external audit by Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell and Co. is of BVN as a whole, adequate separate accounts
are maintained for each of the three BVN Departments. The 1971 IDB loan
document restricted the use of IDB funds to INVI's operations and similarly
the AID 1966 loan was restricted to CACE's Savings and Loan operations. The
IDA sub-credit will be restricted to INVI's operations and accounted for
in INVI's accounts.






BA,'CO DE LA VIVIEi%DA - OAGAJIZATIOAI CHART
Board of Directors
Administration-
Financial
Accounting            President
Legal Planning_
Savings & Loan                    Itrtgage Insurance               Low Cost Housing
Department                          Department
CACE                                 FHA                            INlVI
gerl                                 |Maragertaager
Loan          Savings      Division of            Technical          Community    Engineering       Economics &
Division      Division    Finances and            Division          Development    Division         Accounting
Investment                             Division                       Division
Technical                                                                                           Mortgage
Section for                                                                                          Section
Analysis and
SuDervisior-
of Projects                       Operations                       Accounting
Section                         Section
i   M
April 12, 1973






ANNEX 3
Table 2
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA
BALANCE SHEETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1970-1972
(in thousands of Cordobas)
1970          1971           1972
(Actual)      (Actual)      (Estimated)
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks             17,312        15,125           5,084
Loans and Accounts Receivable        189,970       227,773         286,470
Less Allowance for Bad Debts         6,718         6,112          7,100
Net Loss and Accounts Receivable  183,252        221,661         279,370
Investments                           26,864        46,436          36,391
Bank Premises and Equipment      /     1
at Cost Less Accum.Depeciation  -    1,441         1,426         16,263
Other Assets                           1,396           957           1,504
TOTAL ASSETS                  230,265       285,605        338,612
LIABILITIES AND EQITITY
Bank Overdraft                           364          -               -
Funds Borrowed                       136,437       173,734         240,107
Debt on Land Purchased                 7,524         9,754
Mortgage Bills                           321           257           8 810
Mortgage Bonds                          -            2,750
Other Liabilities                      6,124         6,676
Unearned Income                        5,037        7.,771           1,500
Total Liabilities    155,807        200,942        250,417
EQUITY
Initial Contribution from the Gov't  51,825         51,825          51,825
Subsequent Contribution from Gov't    8,315         12,583         13,583
Donations Received                       615           615             615
Undivided Profits (Capital Reserve)  13,702         19,638          22,172
Total Eauity          74,457         84,663         88,195
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY     230,265       285,605         338,612
/    Since the Bank's premises were destroyed in the earthquake, this
item will be written off and converted into cash received once
payments are received from the insurance company. The claim is
in process.
April 12, 1973






ANNEX 3
Table 3
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA
INCOME STATEMENT, 1970-1972
(in thousands of Cordobas)
1970           1971            1972
Year Ending Dec. 31                   (Actual)       (Actual)       (Estimated)
REVENUES
Interest                              11,500         15,612          18,900
Rentals on Leased Houses                  298           175             160
Premiums on Mortage
Insurance and Savings Deposits         770          1,021           1,290
Insurance Appraisal Fees                  222           161             115
Commissions                               563           727             434
Miscellaneous                           1,145           630             628
Recovery of Bad Accounts                  795           616             510
TOTAL REVENUES                  15,293         18,942          22,037
EXPENSES
General & Administrative Expenses      4,934          5,609           5,110
Interest                               3,622          6,484           8,815
Commissions                              698            793             800
Technical Insurance Reserve               107            83              92
Miscellaneous                             430           479             550
SUB TOTAL                        9,792         13,448         15,367
Less additional charges applied
to investments                         91           442             250
NET EXPENSES                     9,701         13,006          15,117
Net Operating Income Trans-
ferred to Undivided Profits        5,592          5,936           6,920
Undivided Profits at
January 1                          8,110         13,702          19,638
Undivided Profits at
Dec. 31                           13,702         19,638          26,558
April 12, 1973



ANNX 3
Pl.b1e 4
Banco de la Vivienda (INVI Department)
Low-Income Sites and Services/Housing Fund
The arnual amount of $1.5,-2.0 million to be paid inte' the fund
(para 3.24) was derived as follows:
A. Repayments from Entities
Loan                 Repayment   Interes
Loan Amount  Term  Grace Period   Period         Rate 41
($ million) --         Years---------------
Power (ENALUF)               5.0       20          5          15         7.25%
Water Supply (AGUADORA)      2.5       20          6          14         7.25%
Industry (INFONAC)           2.5       12          3           9         6.75%
10.0
/1   Interest free during grace period.
Therefore, annual payments to be received in the housing fund
are:
(i) Principal                                US
Power                 $5   million                 333,000  (commencing year 7)
15 years
Water Supply          $2.5 million                 179,000  (commencing year 6)
14
Industry              $2.5 million                278,ooo  (commencing year 4)
79o,ooo
(ii) Interest                                 54,000
844,ooo
B. Repayments from Sites and Services
Beneficiaries
tl0. 5 per month x 12 x 6,000                 756,000
TOTAL    $1,600,000
Arril 12, 1973



ECONOMIC EVALUATION
ANNEX 4
Table 1
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
Economic Costs of the Project
(in US$ million)
Site Preparation                                                    0.51
Infrastructure
(excluding social services)                                      2.32 /
Other Unit and Shelter
6,000 Sanitary Core Units                   1.373 4
5,500 Minimum Shelter Units                 3.317 4
Materials Fund for 500 Shelter Units         .175 4
Value of self-help labor                     .090 L2             4.95
Engineering, technical assistance and
physical contingencies                                           2.19
Total (excluding land costs)                           9.97
Land                                                                1.30
TOTAL (including land costs)                          11.27
Cost of adding the first room                   $285
Cost of completing consolidation of
each house (additional rooms)                $538
A/1   Costs taken from para 3.14, and excluding 3% taxes on con-
struction materials, which constitute 60% of capital costs.
/2   The cost of labor (US$241.2) for a shelter unit is estimated at
40% of total costs. The value of self-help labor (US$181) has
been shadow priced 25% below its market value. The self-help
labor costs for the pilot program units are therefore 500 x
$181 = $90,000.
April 12, 1973



4
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRIJCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
Monthly Rental Values/
(US$)
Hinimum        LikelJy
One-Room Housing Unit            14.3          21.4
Two-Room Housing Unit            17.8          25.0
Consolidated Housing Unit        25.0          35.7
(three rooms plus a kitchen-
dining room)
/1   These are rental values for housing in
Managua with running water and sewerage.
April 12, 1973



NICARAGUA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                ANNEX 4
Table 3
Benefits and Rates of Return
of the Project
(thousands of US Dollars)
I  i                I, A2                IIIL3 
Years      min.      likely     min.     likely       min.      likely
1         0           0        0         0          0           0
2        950.1     1,427.1    998.0  1,474.6          998.o   1,474.6
3         I           "      1,045.8   1,522.3      1,045.8   1,522.3
4                     "i     1,084.0   1,569.8    1,084.0   1,569.8
5         "                  1,141.3   1,617.9     1,141.3   1,617.9
6                     ii     1,189.2  1,665.0       1,189.2   1,665.0
7                               it "t "             1,213.0   1,700.7
8                               it t  I   ,         1,236.9   1,736.4
9         It         ,,         ,,        it       1,284.6   1,807.8
10                                                  1,308.5  1,843.5
11                                                  1,332.3   1,879.2
12         '                     It ..               1,356.2   1,914.9
13         "           "         "                  1,380.1   1,950.6
14         "           '                   I         1,404.0   1,986.3
15        'l          'l                  I,         1,427.9  2,022.0
16                                                      t "  "  "  if
17                     t         it        It           I         if
18-30
Rates of
Return
Inc. Land
Costs     7.5%      12.4%      8.3%     12.7%       8.7%       13.1%
Excl. Land
Costs     8.9%      14.2%      9.6%     14.4%       9.9%       14.8%
Assumptions:
A   Streams I assume that no consolidation will take place.
A    Streams II assume that one room will be added to all core units
in the first five years of occupancy.
A    Streams III assume that half of the houses will be consolidated (by
adding two more rooms) between years 6 and 16 occupancy.
April 12, 1973






NICARA-,UA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SITES A2D SERVICES PROJECT
I_plementation Schedule-
_ ___------- 1973                              _   1974  _-_-_-_1975
Months:   A|M  J  J  A SO           D   J  F  M  A  M  J  J  A  S O         D   J  F  M  A  4  J
1.  Detailed Engineering
2.  Contract Award
3.  Site Preparation
4. Infrastructure Works
5.  Core Unit Construction
and Community Facilities       |         I                                        - -                       L
1/ Wbrk on sites in each city to proceed similtaneously.
CD
H
April 12, 1973
5I






SITES AND SERVICES
ANNEX 5
Table 1
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in millions of US Dollars)
Cumulative
Quarter     Date              Amount   Disbursements
1         June 30, 1973      0.1          0.1
2         Sept. 30           0.3          0.4
3         Dec. 31            0.3          0.7
4         March 31, 1974    0.5           1.2
5         June 30            0.7          1.9
6         Sept. 30           0.9          2.8
7         Dec. 31            0.8          3.6
8         March 31, 1975    1.1           4.7
9         June 30            1.3          6.o
10        Sept. 30           1.2          7.2
11        Dec. 31            o.8          8.0
April 12, 1973






-                                                                             Fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tgure l
I                               f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- OTES   1000
POBLACI ON = 6000 fiASITANTES
Z3                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSUMO DE MAX. MORA = 3 75 GP.M.
lz~~~~~~~~~~                                                      e'~~~~~~~~ AC   T75 mi.( 0   56m 43000O
-' 4) 4"C   40 mi.) *D 45= 2IAOO
0 3'AC   .15 i'd e   32z IW~O'
ET I             ~~~~2!AC, 5,000 ml.?   28I140000
-   10% ACCESORIOS,        22f468
~~T-r-..                     /              *~~~~~~~ 247,148
i,)ARDIK   DE INFANCl                            1~~~~000 .COjRPX. .250c1u    224.680
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~TOT A L                              $ 497,148
- - -    -  - - -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   j ~~CCNTftO1VI0                                              -_ __----     
YECTO OE LOTES URBANIZERADOO                                                 E 
QE NIARIfAUA--nBADEMND






A:MXX 6
Figure 3
0 L8"GI 
'0 6
522- - - -10 - 6n,i0 \
C.I.  t-.oo, D.no0I  1
SISTEMA DE ALCANTARILLADO SANITARIO                ESAA20
PROYECTO DE- LOTES URBANIZADOS MASAYA
4,564 .1 0 S' - 182,160~~EBRR0  107
G O B I E R N    SO  D E   N DI CAR CAGTUIA  -   BSANICT O    MEUNDIAL   ANASUA-NIC
c)0             5






ANNE 6
F\igure 3
-- 0 L6"GI 
-0 60
-- - -   CoIec\ __ -  e   loO
SOb cdltr or Den...d 1l
TUBERIA:              >
32Z5ml 1 10 6-  1Z2,608\           '                              .'.,,..                 \
_2691548 e, ,, Q  suv    <J   * _\
POZOS DE VISITA:   114    13bs800  -> -'\ 'o i r \
SISTEMA DE A LCANTARILLADO SANITARIO                      ESCALA I: 2000
PROYECTO DE LOTES URBANIZADOS MASAYA
G O B I E R N O   D E  N I C A R A G U A         B      A N C O    M U N D I A L  MANAGUA   N I C






ANNx 6
R-gur-e 4
SIMBOLOGIA
0---    0  6-
~2iO.                                                                          ' VIV.'
LONGITUDE S
G! *      080o m.
I.,"  * r 00ml                                                                                               \ 400\ Mi
TOTAL     7630 mLJ
' -0 S TO S
50800   6"  Of ~203,200
IS50      8"    83.250
400 010' *     5,6 00
300 0 IZ  ,,  20,400
115  % PVS # If 138,0 00
tTOTAL         i 470,450
1069 Conexiones, '213,800|
|Log. de Oxidocldn  A 150,000|\\                            4,      /       
GRAN TOTAL =%834,Z50
ES,CALA 1 2000                 .\ -
StSTEMA DE ALCANTARILLAOO  SAITAR10-|o                                         50       *            oecx>
PROYECTO DE LOTES URBANIZADOS  JINOTEPE
FO  E N  R C  R R  1   U3
GOB I ER NO0 D E NI CA R A GUA  -                       B AN CO0  MUL)N-DIA L    M A N AGUA -  tIC






NICARAGUJA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List of Proposed Investments, by City
Total       Financing                                Number of
City/Firm                         Product       Project Cost      Cost       Project Status             Employees
(thousands of Cordobas)
GRANADA
1. Earthquake-destroyed firms
Nicaragua Export            Clothing            630          630      Appl. received                   60
Trrjes Gomez                Clothing          1,000          800             -                         60
Kikatex                     Clothing          1,000          700             -                         50
2,630       2,130                                      170
2. Expansions
Jaboneria Prego             Soap              1,500          900      Appl. received                   15
E. Chamorro                 Glycerine         1,800          800       Appl. received                  10
E. Sandino                  Animal feeds        800          500      Appl. received                   10
3,100       2,200                                       35
3. New Projects
Ind. Pesquera Continental  Fishing            1,800          246      INF approved project             56
Municipal Slaughterhouse   Meat               1,400          700       Appl. received                  50
3,200         946                                      1o6
TOTAL                        8  30        5,276                                      311
H 1    9
April 12, 1973 



Total      Financing                                Number of
c i   1ty/iI                       Product        Project Cost    Cost       Project Status              Employees
(thousands of CordobasJ
MASAYA
1. Earthquake-destroyed firms
Castro Gulke                Printing            286          264       INF has approved                12
C. Baharet                  Shirts              603          264       INF has approved                35
J. Zuniga & Cia             Flavorings          141          105       INF,has approved                 9
Irsa                        Cosmetics           500          500       Feasibility study presented
and under study by INFONAC    20
Inca                        Nails, wires,etc.7,200           900       Chamber of Commerce project  338
R. Salvatierra              Printing            722          304       Appl. receivedl                 12
Julio Jerez                 Shirts               50           50       Appl. received                  20
A. de Gaitan                Lamps, Steel Bars  -              60       Appl. received                  -
Joyeria Deher               Jewelry             -            450       Appl. received               _
9,502       2,897                                      446
2. New Projects
Slaughterhouse              Meat Products    1,400           700       Appl. submitted to IBRD        Unknown
0. Ordenana                 Food Products       210          110       Appl. received                 Unkno-wn
Nicarguinia                 Paints               -         1,100       Appl. pending                  Unknown
1,610       1,910                                      Unknown
TOTAL                                jL11L2         4.807                                     ____
') 



Total      Financing                                 Number of
City/Firm                         Product        Project Cost    Cost         Project Status              Employees
(thousands of Cordobas)
LEON
1. Earthquake-destroyed firms
La Moderna                  Garments             300          300      Approved but being               120
expanded
300         300                                        120
2. Expansion of existing
facilities
Rafael Sosa                 Printing             100          100      Application received              10
Albertina Bustos            Soap                  60           60      Application received              20
160         160                                         30
3. New Projects
Municipal Slaughterhouse   Meat                1,400          700      Applied to INFONAC                50
Nicapellets                 Animal feed        2,000       1,500       Application received              20
3,1400      -2,200                                        70
TOTAL                              3,860        2,660                                       220
04
('D



Total
Project   Financing
Cost      Cost                                                  Number
Cordobas  Cordobas                                                   of
City/Firm                              Product        (000)  (boo)                 Project Status                 Employees
JINOTEPE/DIRIAMBA
1.  Earthquake-destroyed firms - project status firm
Laboratories Ahlers           Chemicals        335        140    Studies completed - INF has approved           6
Cosco                        Deserts, etc.    200         100    Application processed                         10
Galletas Cristal             Crackers,etc.  2,000       1,000    Application being submitted                   50
Drogeria Calvali              Pharma-
ceuticals      150          12    Application submitted                         9
Plasticos de Nicaragua       Plastic
products     6,784         875    INF studies completed                        35
Sub total                           9,469      2,127                                                 110
2s Expansion of existing facilities
Nicalit                       Asbestos rcof1rg 1,500       800    Study completed but project being expanC0ed 50
Argo Industrial, C.A.         Food prod.       700         500    Application being presented                  20
Acevedo Bendana               Coffee mill      800         800    INF has application                         200
Hilanica                      Clothing       1,319         486    INF has application                          80
Sub total                           4,319      2,586                                                 350
3. New Projects
Juan l'i;.Uespin              Clothing         226        131    Approved but being revised                    15
MI-i- c -pcl Slaughterhouse  Meat            1,400         700    Application received                         90
C.--,.N:r2 Bdes              Shirts            -           417
Sub total                           1,626      1,248                                                  65
4.  Earthli9alke-destroyed firms - project status not known or no formal INFONAC application
Manuel A. Romero             Furniture       1,000         600    Unknown                                      50
Lazaro Parodi                Brake fluids      200        100    Unknown                                       10
Laboratories Frech           Pharma-
ceuticals      200        100    Unknown                                       15
Sub toLal                           1,40O        800                                                  75
TOTAL                              16 814      6,761                                                 600        L



Total
Project   Financing
Cost       Cost
Cordobas   Cordobas                                            Number of
City/Firm                          Product       (OO0)       (000)              Project Status                  Employees
Non-Refugee Cities Outside Managua
ATLANTIC (new)
Pesquero Anticorrosivos         Shrimp boats   6,000     1,200         Application received                     34
Frigorificos de Carribe         Cold Storage   1,116       685         Application received                     35
Sub total                             7,116     1,885                                                  69
Outside Managua (new)
Telplanicsa                    Vinyl leathers 3,500       1,730        Application received                     25
Oliver Fagot                    Garments/
furniture      150        80         Application received                     15
Francisco Castrillo                                         120
Conception Vela quez                                         50
Sub total                             3,650     1,980                                                  40
Matagalpa (new)
Producto Minerales Inertos     Minerals          323        100        Application received                     34
Queseria Bavaria                Cheese         1,332       620         Approved by INFONAC                      31
Sub total                             1,655       720                                                  65
Others
l,uis A. Valdivia                                -           75
Manuel Martinez                                             200                                                  -
ALTESA                          Furniture                 1,095
Tuma                            Tannery                     350
TAMSA                           Leather goods               524
Sub total                               -       2,2_44
p
TOTAL                                12,46 2829                                                       174+
VlX



Total                                                   Number
Project     Financing                                      of
Firm                               Product         Cost          Cost        Project Status              Employees
(thoueands of Cordobas)
Projects Outside Managua
Whose Location Locations
Remain to be Identified
La Favorita                                                     160     In active study by INFONAC
Ind. Lac. Les Brasiles                                           98     In active study by INFONAC
258
I'd
CD>



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 8
Page 1
EARTH UAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
DECENTRALIZATION SCHEME PROPOSED BY THE
CENTRAL BANX AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMICS WORKING GROUP
1.        Government has under consideration a number of fiscal incentives
to promote the decentralization of industry throughout the Departments:
(a) deducting from taxable income (from any origin) the
investments made in the geographical areas to be
developed;
(b) destroyed industrial enterprises which would relocate
in the Departments would receive industrial classifi-
cation as new projects, giving them fresh benefits;
and
(c) new industrial enterprises locating in the Departments
will be exempted from the production tax and the 2.2%
tax on factory sales.
2.        Benefits will be given for the period established by the National
Law for Protection and Encouragement of Industrial Development, incorporating
such criteria as employment and origin of raw materials.
3.        Enterprises located in Managua which decide to relocate will receive
the same benefits. Firms already located in the Departments, seeking re-
classification and expansion will receive local tax exemptions by virtue of
Decree 11-2.
4.        Additional benefits being considered are:
(a) exemption from taxes on raw materials, machinery and
equipment (a tax usually called piso, i.e. floor) which
are charged by some municipalities and juntas locales;
(b) exemption from license taxes in the municipalities and
juntas for a three-year period;
(c) exemption from the maximum percentage in the category
which corresponds to the 30% tax for Economic Stabilization;
(d) a preferential price for electricity for industrial
enterprises locating in the Departments; and
(e) permitting small industries duty free import of machinery,
equipment and raw materials.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Other aspects of the decentralization policy might include:
(a) development and promotion institutions, e.g. INFONAC
would prepare projects for the private sector. They
would offer liberalized terms and interest rates and
would provide technical assistance. On the last point
the Technological Research Department of the Central
Bank would participate actively;
(b) the Central Government, in cooperation with the municipal
authorities, could construct industrial parks. Infra-
structure would be provided and buildings rented to
industries. Other buildings could be included according
to the needs of each enterprise. This scheme would reduce
each enterprise's investment and economics of scale would
be obtained if complementary industries are located in
such industrial zones. In any case, the necessary infra-
structure including access roads, would have to be built
in the Departments in order to induce industries to move
there; and
(c) defining the National District in Managua as a zone not
suitable for new industrial installations because of
safety conditions would be the most effective measure
for decentralization.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INFONAC - Organization, Appraisal Procedures
and Financial Situation
Organization Structure
1.        INFONAC was reorganized in September 1972 when the three technical
departments -- Agricultural Projects, Industrial Projects and Economics
Departments -- were regrouped into (see Figure I, attached):
(a) Banking Department;
(b) Study, Supervision and Control Department;
(c) Promotion and Development Department; and
(d) Administration Department.
These departments together with the various sections within each department
and the role of the Superior Council, Executive Board and the President
(General-Manager) are shown in the attached organization chart. Some 250
employees, of which 60 are professionals, are allocated among the departments.
2.        The Superior Council meets about six times a year to set general
policy and approve the budget, annual report and foreign loans. Its nine
members comprise:
(a) Ministry of Economy (Chairman);
(b) Minister of Finance;
(c) Minister of Agriculture;
(d) President of the Central Bank;
(e) President of Banco Nacional;
(f) Head of the Planning Office;
(g) A representative from the minority political party;
(h) A representative from the industrial sector; and
(i) the General Manager of INFONAC (non-voting member).
The Superior Council does not approve/reject specific loans or equity invest-
ments made by INFONAC.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        The Six-Member Board of Directors is chaired by the General Manager
of INFONAC, and includes a representative of the Executive of the country,
a representative of the minority party, and representatives from the industrial,
commercial and agricultural sectors. The Board is required to approve every
loan made by INFONAC in excess of 0100,000, including additional loans to
companies of lesser amounts but which exceed 0100,000 when aggregated with
previous loans.
4.        The General-Manager of INFONAC is appointed by the Superior Council.
The present General Manager (Mr. Noel Pallais Debayle) has been in office for
6 months. In addition to his functions on the Superior Council and Board of
Directors, the General Manager can approve/reject loan applications below
0100,000.
5.        Much of the day-to-day operations of INFONAC are delegated to the
Deputy-Managers who are at the same time department heads. The particular
functions of the three "operating departments" (excluding the Administrative
Department) can best be understood in the context of the evaluation process
for loan/equity investment applications. This process consists of the follow-
ing steps:
(a) A loan application is first submitted to the Banking
Department which checks whether the activity in question
conforms to INFONAC's basic policies;
(b) The Banking Department checks financial information on
file if the company is an existing INFONAC client or
requests this information and a feasibility study if
it is a new client;
(c) The feasibility study is then sent to the Evaluation
Division of the Department of Studies, Supervision and
Control for analysis. A report is written and sent
back to the Banking Department.  This stage takes from
2-4 weeks;
(d) The Banking Department makes the basic recommendations
and formulates conditions and terms for the loan, and
then the proposal is sent to the General Manager. This
stage takes one week;
(e) If the Board approves the loan proposal, it is returned
to the Banking Department to conclude the legal documents
and begin disbursement.
This appraisal process takes about 4-6 weeks in most cases but can take up
to 6 months with difficult cases.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 3
6.        The appraisal process for operations such as the proposed credit
to promote decentralization would vary somewhat. In this case the Promotion
and Development Department assists the client directly in carrying out the
feasibility study. It also evaluates the proposals and sends them on to
the Studies, Supervision and Control Department for further evaluation. The
proposal then goes through the usual process.
Financial Situation
7.        Table 1 shows the Balance Sheets for 1970-71 (actual) and estimated
for 1972 (unaudited at this time) show INFONAC's position a year before and
shortly after the earthquake. Table 2 shows the Income Statement for 1971
and 1972 and the Sources and Uses of Funds for 1970 and 1971 are shown in
Table  3.   INFONAC's estimated net loss of 014.2 million in 1972 is a slight
increase over 1971's figure (attached).  The table below lists INFONAC's
losses since 1967:
INFONAC's Annual Net Losses
Year                      Annual Net Loss
(in 0 millions)
1967                           4.6
1968                           7.7
1969                          13.6
1970                           9.9
1971                          13.9
1972                          14.2
8.        INFONAC's losses have been caused by some poor investments, high
overheads and administrative expenses, e.g. in 1972 General and Administrative
Expenses represented 55% of total revenues, although this might be expected
in a development bank whose operations are technical/clerical in nature -
and by the increasing cost of raising money. The table below shows this de-
creasing spread. Much of INFONAC's portfolio is long term for which it has
lately had to borrow short term funds at high rates of interest.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 4
INFONAC's Interest Spread
Total Yield /      Financing Cost -       Spread
1965                       10.2                 4.6              5.6
1966                        8.1                 3.3              4.8
1967                        8.8                 4.8              4.0
1968                       8.8                  5.0              3.8
1969                        9.5                 6.0              3.5
1970                        9.0                 7.2              1.8
1971                        8.3                 7.5              0.8
/1   Total interest, commission and other income as percentages of total
gross loan portfolio (year-end balances).
/2   Total interest, commissions and other borrowing costs as percentages
of year-end balances of total indebtedness.
9.        A feature which distorts INFONAC's profitability picture is that
research and development costs are charged against operating income such as
the annual t4 million, or 030 million incurred to date, on the forestry pro-
gram which represents a very good investment whose returns are likely to be
about US$20 million per year by the early 1980's. These costs should be
separated from the regular income statements and reflected in the asset side
of the Balance Sheet.
10.       Another factor is INFONAC's under-capitalization of equity causing
a high debt/equity ratio of about 4:1 in 1971. This was somewhat alleviated
in 1972 when Government paid in to INFONAC C80 million (US$11.4 million)
130 million as reimbursements for previous losses (according to Article 7 of
INFOAC's organic law) and 050 million as additional equity (see attached
Balance Sheet). Consequently, the debt/equity ratio at year-end 1972 dropped
to 2.6:1.
11.       At year-end 1972 INFONAC's loan portfolio stood at e261 million, up
¢30 million from 1971 (attached).  The sectoral breakdown of this portfolio
is shown below:



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 5
INFONAC's Loan Portfolio by Sector
1967 - 1971
(in million Cordobas)
1967     1968      1969     1970      1971
Industry         81.6     102.1    126.0    127.7    126.2
Agriculture:    51.5       69.6      84.7     98.8      97.8
Bananas      19.4       28.3      38.8     40.5      40.0
Tobacco      19.5       27.8      32.5     45.3      51.2
Other        12.6       13.5      13.4     13.0       6.6
Cattle            2.6       2.5       3.7      3.7       5.1
Loans to Savings
Depositors    1.0        1.1       1.4      1.3       0.9
TOTAL           136.7     175.3    215.8    231.5    230.0
As can be seen from the above table, industrial lending, which has not in-
creased in the last three years, constitutes slightly over half of INFONAC's
loan portfolio. However, it is expected to constitute a greater proportion
in the next few years.
12.       INFONAC's investment portfolio stood at 081.6 million at year-end
1972, an increase of t4.1 million over 1971. It is difficult to obtain an
accurate idea of the current value of this portfolio since the investment
figures contained in the Balance Sheets are valued at cost and not market
value. Yet an allowance for decline in value has been made. A similar allow-
ance for increases in value should be shown. Shares in industrial companies
stood at 039.9 million in 1971 or 52% of INFONAC's total investment portfolio.
13.       INFONAC has received a number of loans from IDB, AID as shown in
the table below:
Loans Made to INFONAC by IDB & AID
Agency                Date of Loan             Amount of Loan
(Month, Day, Year)       (in millions of Cordobas)
IDB                   7  / 11  1961                     2.0
9  / 14  1964                     1.4
12  / 13  1965                     3.5
2  / 26  1969                    5.0
AID                  12  / 23  1964                     4.0
10  / 23  1967                    5.0
In addition, INFONAC has received long-term loans and one person as technical
assistance from Kreiditanstalt of Germany.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 6
INFONAC's Flow of Funds
14.       Table 4 shows the 1972-1975 projected cash flows in a format kept
by INFONAC and insisted upon by the Nicaraguan Superintendent of Banks. This
format differs from the customary Sources and Uses of Funds statement shown
in Table 3. Table 5 shows INFONAC's loan program and its financing from
foreign and local funds.
15.       In Table 4 figures are provided for 1972 (estimated), for 1973 as
estimated prior to the earthquake, and for 1973-1975 as estimated in February
1973 by INFONAC and the reconstruction project appraisal mission. The follow-
ing should be noted:
(a) An operating deficit is projected for each year when
amortizations are excluded from the calculation;
(b) The operating deficit for 1973 is projected to be 0 10
million more than the pre-earthquake estimate. At least
t6 million represents postponement of interest payments
to firms destroyed or damaged by the earthquake;
(c) The post-earthquake estimate of the cash deficit is
projected at 046 million for 1973, or 038 million more
than the pre-earthquake estimate. This change primarily
results from the following:
(millions of Cordobas)
Decrease in amortization receipts                   6
Decrease in sales of bonds                         10
Decrease in savings deposits                        6
Decrease in sale of stock                           4
Increase in cash operating deficit
(excluding amortization payments or receipts) 10
Miscellaneous                                       2
38
16.       While the above revisions were caused by the earthquake in large
part, they also resulted from overoptimistic estimations made prior to the
earthquake. Part of the losses will be made up in 1974 or 1975 from insurance
payments. Nevertheless, the three-year estimate of the total deficit of
INFONAC resources increased from ¢16 million, pre-earthquake to C55 million,
post-earthquake, an increment of 039 million. Decreases in sales of stocks
and bonds, decreases in deposits, decreases in repayments and increases in
the operating cost deficit, account for the increased losses.



INDUSTRY
ANNEX 9
Page 7
17.       INFONAC proposed to meet the cash deficit by selling 048 million
of stock, prior to approval of the IDA Credit loan. The latter will require
counterpart funds from INFONAC of 014 million. This will be met in part from
the V7 million of counterpart released by IDB when it reduced its loan require-
ments for counterpart from 40% to 10%. The stock sale could be increased to
055 million.
18.       There will be few funds available from INFONAC's own resources for
project lending unless large influxes of government funds and/or large scales
of stocks are made. As an alternative for the counterpart financing, Govern-
ment could promptly cover INFONAC's operating deficits for 1972 and prepay
1973. It is recommended that as a condition of the IDA sub-Credit, Government
cover INFONAC's operating deficits for 1972 and 1973 estimated at about 014
million for each year. Only half as much stock would then have to be sold.






I N ? S N A C
0 R S A 'I I Z A T I 0 N   C H A R 
| Superior|
Cpuncil
Internal|
1 Audit
Board oi'
DSrectt
tT77
[J~~~~~~~~ Contron DeArtenot                                                                                       Dnpteeot                                                Depatnee
gSa-rng~       i       rdit  ||Supervso S  OperaLtions   Cw°otrole| Indutrs   0 Sll a S d    otriel7               F7L~         Agr1ic2tore      /        5 rsies     | |     Cooerci.    G|Peral     raonnel
XS   Divisi   |Divisor |iviejon  | Division j      Division   | Cerprisea  |Division    Stud7es     Advi.s  +rotPiectitO   Catl jlDivision  Ad        1        vor |Division  |B|ern-ics  Division 1-
Acoontig                          yStiaic                                                    oratcS  e
Sectio0n                 J                                            Section        |         aer
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sectionl             sciD     li ni
ii                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABriCUlt,rn.
Sec tionl                                                               [eoiectinont
Section l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seto






NICARAGUA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                     ANNEX 9
Table 1
INFONAC - Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1970-72
(In thousands of Cordobas)
1970         1971         1972
Assets
8,188        15,918
Cash on hand and in banks                 7,223           --
Obligations of Government                16,163           --
Loans and Accounts Receivable
Loans to public                    231,,498     230,081        261,165
Interest, Commission and
Accounts Receivable               36 250        42,792        51 124
267,748      272,7         312 29
272873       12
Less Allowance for bad debts        15,993        16 911        12,529
251,755      2-2           299,760
Investments, at cost
Stocks (less allowance for
decline in value)            28,882       39,879         51,391
In projects                        .46,998        37 584        30,181
75,880       77,463        61,572
Inventories at cost                       2,330         2,277         3,358
Property and equipment at cost            4,135         4,340         4,511
less accumulated depreciation        (2,327)      (2,575)       (2,850)
Other assets                              4,643         8,362         5,333
Total Assets                       359,802       354,017       407,602
Liabilities and Equity
Savings Accounts                    32,592        38,347        37,889
Borrowings                         243 ,635      213,909
Bonds issued                        21,520        22,239       239,785
Other liabilities                   151170        13,356
312,917      257,851       277,674
Initial Contribution of the State         50,000       50,000        50,000
Subsequent Capital Contributions         10,564        28,890        50,746
Donations received                             4          137           137
60,568       79,027       100,583
Capital Reserve                                                      18,696
Less Accumulated deficit pending            -             -          18,696
reimbursement                       13,682        12,872        14,237
(1972 loss)
Total Equity                        46o8          66,155       105,342
TOTAL                              359,803       354,017       407,602
Source: Peat,Marwick, Mitchell Report, May 8, 1972 and INFONAC accounts.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
NICARAGUA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
INFONAC
INCCME STATEMENT, 1970-72
(in million Cordobas)
1970      1971        1972
(Est.)
Income
Interest earned                   18.7       20.6        23.1
Investment income                 14.6        8.4         8.3
Commission                         2.1        1.8         2.5
Other income                        2.0       1.1         0.2
37.3      31.8        34.1
Expenses
General and Administration
Expenses                        17.4       17.6        18.5
Interest and Commission paid      22.2       19.0        18.7
Expenses incurred by companies
and agricultural projects        7.4        8.9        10.8
Other expenses                      0.2       0.2         0.3
147.2     45.4        48.3
Net Operating Loss                     (9.9)    (13.9)      (14.2)
Source:  Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Report, May 8, 1972 and
INFONAC accounts.
April 12, 1973



ANNEX 9
NICARAGUA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT              Table 3
INFONAC
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS, 1970-71
(thousands of Cordobas)
1970         1971
Funds Provided (Sources)
Increase in:
Funds borrowed                                  148,111      122,092
Bonds issued                                        815          720
Savings deposits                                  5,902        5,756
Donations                                           _            133
Subsequent capital contributions                    -         18,326
Decrease in inventories                           1,426           53
Net contribution of State                        115220       30,866
167,474      177,946
Funds Applied (Uses)
Net loss for the year                                 9,904       13,893
Less charges not requiring funds:
Provisions for bad debts                          6,135        4,717
Provisions for property foreclosed                  -            865
Depreciation                                        392          294
Amortization                                      2,275        2,904
Funds applied to operations                       1,102        5,112
Increase in:
Loan and accounts receivable                     19,484        8,o68
InveStments                                       9,459        4,380
Premises                                            153          355
Other Assets                                        445        5,441
Decrease in:
Funds borrowed                                  135,481      151,807
Other liabilities                                   930        1,814
167,056      176,981
Increase in Cash on Hand and Banks                      418           965
Source:  Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Report, May 8, 1972.
April 12, 1973



NICAURAGWA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SOURCES AND USE OF INFONAC FUNDS (EXCLUDING FOREIGN FUNDS)
Pre-Earthquake          Post-Earthquake
Projections       Estimates              Projections               Post          Pre
1972          -              1973        197l       1975      7              73/75
(est_                   -      (millions of Cordobas)
INFONAC Resources             ------------(thousands of Cordobas) --------------
Source of Funds
Initial Balance                 -           2,208         2,208       2,569        892      186127
Recuperation                 31,936        32,172        26,1497     42,039    50,037       118.6        122.7
Sale of land                    1484        1,~412          358         677        7114        1.8         14.8
Sele of stock                 3,207T         4,133          270         -        4,300        4.6         11.9
Sale of bonds                14,o00oo       5,8          (4,000)      4,400      4,400        4.4         13.6
Increase in savings          (4,000)        2,000        (47oOO)      3,000      3,000         2.0          6.o
Sub-total - funds            45,627        48,525        21,333      52,685    63,343       131.4        139.0
Use of Funds
Legal Cash Deposit             3,000
Forestry Programc             15600         1,300         1,80/ V/                             1.8          4.5
Amortization                 70,265 i      13,365        13,365      17,P42    22,231         53.0         53.0
Guarantee Payments           10,110         2,790         2,790       1,315        216         4.3          4.3
Operating Cash Deficit 3/    9,182          4,558        14,315       3,486      2,441        20.2          3.5
Sub-total                    94,157        22,213        32,270      22,243    24,888        79.3         65.3
Loan Program                 31,799        34,312        34,662      36,550    36,273       107.5        109.8
Sub-total - uses            125,956        56,525        66,932      58,793    61,161       186.8        175.1
Surplus Deficit             (B0,329)       (8,000)      (45,599)    (6,108)    2,182         55.4         16.1
Financing of deficit
Stock sale                                            48,168      7,000                   55.2          -
Government funds          75,076 J       8,000         7,000                                            8.0
Final Balance                    -            -           2,569         892      3,054
Source:  INFONAC and mission estimates.
1/  Forestry program to be capitalized.
2/ Government reimbursement used in part to reduce debt.
3/  Does not include amortization receipts or payments but does include interest.                           April 12, 1973



NICARAGUA - EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN FINANCING OF INFONAC LOANS
(thousands of Cordobas)
Pre-Earthquake         Post-Earthquake
Actual          Projections            Projections
1972              1973         1973       1974         1975
Proposed Loan Program of INFONAC
Total                                  76,767           108,400       123,750    36,015       77,005
Foreign resources                    45,968            74,o88        89,o88    49,465       440,732
INFONAC's own resources              31,799            34,312        34,662    36,550       36,273
of which:
IBRD Program                                     -          25,000    10,000          -
IBRD                                             -          15,000     6,000
INFONAC                                          -          10,000     4,000
Funding
Foreign Resources                      46,968                -         89,o88    49,465       40,732
BCIE                                  2,800                -            _          -
AID                                  15,099                -            -          -
6,732               _           8,243       -
IDB                                  11,240 o                        17,431    31,673          -
Private (uS$6,ooo,ooo)               10,343                          31,027        -
ICO                                     754                -          1,829      2,860         -
New Loans                                                  _         15,568        -        40,732
IBRD                                                       -         15,000      6,000         -
INFONAC Resources
Total to Loans                         31,799             34,312       34,662    36,550       36,273
To IBRD loan                            -                  -         10,000      4,000         -
To other foreign loans               13,299            15,312         5,162    13,050       16,273
To tobacco                           18,500            19,000        19,500    19j.500      20,000
April 12, 1973
(D>






N I C A R A G U A   E A R T H Q U A K E   R E C O N S T R U C T I O N   P R O J E C T
-EDUCATION SECTOR
In US$ 000's
Project                PART I                                              PART II
Items
Type of                     4 General                 2 Multilateral               1 Technical                                             TOTAL OF PARTS I & II
Expenditur              S (100 Classrooms)               Schools                    Institute                     Total
_ .                                                                        .___
Estimated Costs       Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total   Local    Foreign Total  Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    %
Cost     Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost    Cost    Cost        Cost   Cost   Cost        Cost      Cost    Cost       Cost      Cost
Construction &
Site Development        140       330      470      527       528    1,055    270          270    540       797       798    1,595       937    1,128   2,065    68.3
Furniture                 -         -        -        9        81        90       5         45      50       14       126       140       14       126      140      4.6
Equipment                 _         _        _       15       135       150       -          -       -       15       135       150       15       135      150      5.0
Professional
Services                  -         -        -       53        52       105      28         27      55       81        79       160       81        79      160      5.3
Technical
Assistance                2        10       12         -         -         -      -          _       _        _         _         _        _        10       1       0.4
Sub-Total               142       340      482       604       796    1,400    303         342    645       907    1,138    2,045   1,049    1,47    2,527    83.6
Contingencies:
Unforeseen                 _-                -        60        80      140      31         34      65       91       114       205       91       114      245      8.3
Cost Increses                       _                 86       114      200      42         48      90      128       162       290      128       162      290      9.9
Sub-Total                 _         _        -       146       194      340      73         82    155       219       276       4        219       276      535    18___
Total Cost              142       34o      482       750       990    1,740    376         424    8 800   1,126    1,414    2,540   1,268    1,754   3,022   100.0
Proposed Credit
Percentage               (64)    (100)    (90)       (11)    (100)       (63    (18)      (100)   (60)    *(14)    (100)        (62      (19)   (100)       (66)
Amount                   90       340      430       100      990    1,090       56        424    480       156    1,414    1,570        246   1,754    2,000    66.0
April 15, 1973
00 






EDUCAIICN
NICARAGUA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                       ANNEX ll
Implementation Schedule -- Education Sector
Year                           First - 1973                      Second - 1974                         Third - 1975
Quarter                1        2        3       4          5       6        7        8        9        10       11       12
PART I
Civil Works
Preparation of
Tender Documents                 x
Tendering                          x
Bid Evaluation
Contract Awarding
Construction                              x x x
Liability Period                                   x x x
Technical Assistance
One Man Year                              x X X   x x        x   x x x   x x  x
PART II
Civil Works
Briefing and Contracting
Consultant Architects
Site Surveys                              x x x
Preparation of
Tender Documents                                   x x x   x x x
Tendering
Bid Evaluation
Contract Awarding                                                   x x x
Construction                                                                  x  x       x    x x x  x x x
Liability Period                                                                                          x  x       x   x x x   x x x   x x x
Furniture and Equipment
Preparation of Lists and
Tender Documents                                   x  x      x   x x x   x x x
Tendering                                                                     x x x
Manufacturing, Delivery
& Installation                                                                          x  x x  x x x
Liability Period                                                                                          x x        x   x x x   x x x   x x x
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Credit                 2,000                430       35       35       35      420     420      420      100        35      35       35
Local                  1.022                 52       20       20       20      260      260      26o      70        20       20      20
Total                  3,022                482       55       55       55      680     680      680       170       55       55      55
April l5, 1973






WATER SUPPLY
ANNEX 12
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Equipment and materials for repair rehabilitation and maintenance
for which the Bank has authorized purchase without international competitive
bidding:
ITEM                                           QUANTITY
Leak detectors and pipe locators                   2
One-ton pick-up truck                              3
Four-ton truck                                     1
Truck with mobile shop                             1
Tractor mounted backhoe                            2
Small crane                                        1
Two-way radio                                      5
Arc welder                                         1
Pipe tapping machines                              7
Pavement breaker                                   3
Soil compactor                                     3
Portable generator                                 2
Pipe threaders                                     4
Hand tools and pipe repair clamp






WATER SUPPLY
ANNEX 13
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT - NICARAGUA
Draft Description of Project, Schedule 2
(Water Supply Component)
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.   Replacement of up to three steel reservoirs of 126,000
gallons capacity each.
B.   Repair of four reinforced concrete reservoirs.
C.   Correction of the unstable embankment above the Lake
Asososca low-service pumping station.
D.   Securing the power line to the Lake Asososca low-service
pumping station.
E.   Construction of maintenance building and chlorination station.
P.   Leakage survey.
G.   Acquisition and use of equipment and materials for water
system repair and maintenance.
H.   Parts A, B, C and E of Schedule 2 (Loan 808-NI) below:
A.   Construction of water wells in the vicinty of Las
Mercedes, Altamira and other suburban areas to be
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank with an aggregate yield of about 14 Mgd.
B.   Construction of a new high-service booster pumping
station with a capacity of about 10 Mgd, in the vicinity
of Las Mercedes; and an increase of about 16 Mgd in the
aggregate capacity of the existing pumping stations at
Lazuna Asososca.
C.   Construction of:
1)   two service reservoirs with a capacity of about
500,000 gallons each;
2)   about 70 kms of 12" to 36" transmission pipelines; and
3)   about 150 kms of 2" to 10" distribution pipelines.
D.   Installation of about 9,400 service connections.
E.   Construction of a new administration building.






WATER SUPPLY
ANNEX i4
Table 1
NICARAGUA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT
Amount of Credit   X of Expenditures
Category                                 Allocated           to be Financed
I    Civil Works for:
(a)  Parts A, B, C, D and E          675,000          80%  of total expendi-
tures.
(b)  Part G                        1,260,000          55% of total expendi-
tures.
II   Equipment and Materials for
Part F                          200,000          100% of foreign exchange
expenditures or 95% of
local expenditures
III  Unallocated                           365,000
Total                              2,50.0.000



WATER SUPPLY
ANNEX 14
Table 2
NICARAGUA
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD FY and Quarter                   Disbursements          Accunulated
Daring Quarter         Disbursements
-----------US$ thousands----
1972/1973
June 30, 1973                             800                    800
1973/1974
September 30, 1973                        200                  1,000
December 31, 1973                         300                  1,300
March 31, 1974                            300                  1,600
June 30, 1974                             200                  1,800
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                        200                  2,000
December 31, 1974                         100                  2,100
March 31, 1975                            100                  2,200
June 30, 1975                             100                  2,300
1975A976
September 30, 1975                        100                  2,400
December 31, 1975                         100                  2,500



WATER SUPPLY
ANNEX 15
AGUADORA
CASH FLOW
1973 - 1975
C$                 US$
---- Million--------
Sources
Internal Cash Generation
Gross Operating Revenues                33.3                4.8
Less Cash Operating Costs               24.9                3.6
Net Internal Cash Generation             8.4                1.2
Loans and Credits    /1
IBRD Loan 808-NI1-1-                    46.9                6.7
Proposed IDA Credit                     21.0                3.0
Local Short-Term Borrowing               4.9                0.7
Decrease in Working Capital              2.0                0.3
Total Sources                                83.2               11.9
Applications
Project Works                   /2
Under Modified Loan 808-NI'-            66.8                9.6
Under Proposed IDA Credit                7.4                1.1
Debt Service
Interest on Existing Loans               3.7                0.5
Amortization on Existing Loans           5.3                0.7
Total Debt Service                       9.0                1.2
Total Applications                           83.2               11.9
/1   Does not include expenditures prior to January 1973.
/2   Includes local cost of civil works financed by IDA Credit.






POWER
ANNEX 16
Page 1
NICARAGUA
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA (ENALUF)
Project Description
The proposed project consists of: 1) the repair of damages to
existing installations; 2) the extension of the distribution network and
expansion of several transformer substations; and 3) the execution of a
series of programmed works for the period 1973-74, as follows:
1.        Repair of Damages to Existing Installations
a)   Power Plant and Substations
i)   Repair of three generating units, boilers
and other equipment and the Managua steam
plant building; and
ii)   Replacement of damaged equipment in the sub-
stations and repair of the indoor substation
of the Managua steam plant.
b)   Distributions
i)   Replacement of damaged equipment and materials
to serve the outlying areas of Managua; and
ii)   Dismantling and withdrawal of damaged components
of the distribution network.
c)   Consumer Connections and Meters
Approximately 15,000 consumer connections, including
replacement of damaged equipment and materials,
and new measuring transformers; meters, insulators,
switches and fuses.
2.        Extension of the Distribution Network
a)   Extension of the primary and secondary network
and consumer connections to provide electric
service to more than 12,000 provisional housing
units being constructed in the outlying areas
of Managua; and



POWER
ANNEX 16
Page 2
b)   Expansion of the original substations on the outskirts of
Managua and substations at Masaya, Jinotepe and Chichigalpa
and acquisition of two mobile 15 MVA substations.
3.        Annual Work Program for 1973-74
a)   Primary and Secondary Distribution
i)   Expansion of the distribution network and
public lighting facilities in various
localities throughout the country;
ii)   Improvement of various suburban areas of
Managua; and
iii)   Acquisition of regulation and protection
equipment, cables, control and public
lighting equipment meters.
b)   Transmission System and Substations
i)   Expansion of the Sosacloro (Managua) sub-
stations; and
ii)   Acquisition of spares for substations.
c)   Office Buildings, Warehouses and Workshops
i)   Offices for the Department of Meters, Casa
Colorada and San Rafael del Sur substations
and substations servicing the interconnected
national system;
ii)   Conditioning of the Santa Rosa warehouse and
expansion of other warehouses; and
iii)   Central automotive workshop.
d)   General
i)   Acquisition of vehicles and parts; and
ii)   Communications equipment.



POWER
ARNEX 17
NICARAGUA
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA (ENALUF)
Cost of the Project
US$ million
L.C. F.C. Total
1. Repairs of Existing Installations
a)  Power Plant and Substations                     0.39  o.86  1.25
b)  Distribution                                    o.o6  0.17  0.23
c)  Customer Connections and Meters                  -    0.25  0.25
Sub-Total                                           0.45  1.28  1.73
2. Extension of the Distribution Network
a)  Distribution for Provisional Housing            0.13  0.34  0.47
b)  Sub-Transmission and Substations                0.27  o.66  0.93
Sub-Total                                           0.140  1.00  1.40
3. Other Construction
a)  Primary and Secondary Distribution              o.68  1.27  1.95
b)  Transmission System and Substations             0.04  0.20  0.24
c)  Office Buildings, Warehouses and Workshops      0.19  0.04  0.23
d)  General Property (vehicles)                      -    0.44  0.44
Sub-Total                                           0.91  1.95  2.86
.4.  Contingencies (12%)                                0.16  0.55  0.71
Total Cost of Project                                1.92  4.78  6.70



POWER
ANNEX 18
NICARAGJA
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA (ENALUF)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in thousands of US Dollars)
Disbursements During    Cumulative Disburse-
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter          Quarter          ments at End of Quarter
1972/1973
June 30, 1973                    1,000                     1,000
1973/1974
September 30, 1973                  84o                    1,840
December 31, 1973                 1,650                    3,490
March 31, 1974                      660                    4,150
June 30, 1974                       400                    4,550
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                  340                    4,890
December 31, 1974                   130                    5,OOO



POWER
ANNEX 19
NICARAGUA
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds 1973-1974
(in thousands of Cordobas)
Year Ending December 31                        1973                   1974
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation:
Net Income Before Interest                9,870                 31,336
Depreciation                             16 700                 17,224
26,570                 45,560
Borrowings:
AID (Elect. Rural Coops)                 10,500                  2,100
IBRD Loan 840,oN3                        34,850                 79,630
BCIE                                    20,150                  16,650
Other Loan                                 -                    18 000
65,500
Contributions:
Consumers                                2,100                   2,200
Consumer Deposits                        2600                    1,700
4,700                  3,900
TOTAL SOURCES                                  96,770                168 840
APPLICATIONS
Construction:
Proposed IBRD/CABEI Project              42,000                 98,610
Other Construction                       17,480                 15,480
Other Investment                         10,500                 11,900
Investment in Coops                      18,410                  9,800
-88,-390              135,790
Debt Service:                               46,320                 47,450
Additions to Working Capital                  (750)                 4,380
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                            133,960                187,620
FINANCIAL GAP                                  37,190                 18,780






|  ;  t   >  >          r tS      /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   Fa91tS Or    | estruCtion   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oF"¶¶O  O~tuCo
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /0 000 0O  //=






>    S s C            N                      c   f1 44k t3          *   
o g >l  t   itf -: :  : b   X       4*.i  t                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"*l   I 
j0                                   A                                               0R ji'SgaliE =
0                                                                                    N
et
n   0                           b.     N   -4.  
.   '                          N ''
o               zo6i                      co
4E ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     0
EIL61  UM  I, 
8997,01-0881~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



