CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part B Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part B Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿PART B PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA (hereinafter called AGUADORA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that AGUADORA agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and AGUADORA, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AGUADORA on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AGUADORA, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AGUADORA shall carry out Part B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and


﻿4
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, except for installations
which, in the reasonable judgment of the Association, are of a simple nature,
AGUADORA shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Part B of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) AGUADORA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by AGUADORA to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGUADORA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) AGUADORA shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) AGUADORA shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine Part B of the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
Section 2.06. AGUADORA shall duly perform all its obligations ander the
Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. AGUADORA shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in Part
B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Aguadora
Section 3.01. (a) AGUADORA shall at all times maintain its existence and
right to carry on operations and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   AGUADORA shall operate and maintain all its plants, equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof
in accordance with sound engineering standards, and at all times manage its affairs,
operate its plants and equipment and maintain its financial position, in accordance
with sound business and public utility practices, under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
(c)   AGUADORA shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on any appointment to the post of Sub-Gerente of AGUADORA
to be made after the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. AGUADORA shall take all feasible measures to ensure that
the execution and operation of Part B of the Project are carried out with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors, especially concerning the protection
of the quality of AGUADORA's water sources.
Section 3.03. AGUADORA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AGUADORA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. AGUADORA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of AGUADORA and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGUADORA
undertakes towards the Association the obligations set forth in Sections 5.04 and
5.05 of the Loan Agreement (Second Managua Water Supply Project) between the
Bank and Empresa Aguadora de Managua dated March 17, 1972.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and AGUADORA shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and Aguadora shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance by AGUADORA
of its obligations under the Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of AGUADORA and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and AGUADORA shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them


﻿7
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or
AGUADORA of their respective obligations under the Part B Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. AGUADORA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of AGUADORA and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AGUADORA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date when the Part B Subsidiary Loan, together with interest
and all other charges thereon, shall have been paid.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AGUADORA of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿8
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AGUADORA:
Empresa Aguadora de Managua
Apartado Postal 3599
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
AGUADORA
Managua, Nicaragua
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AGUADORA may be taken or executed by the Administrador or Gerente
General of AGUADORA or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. AGUADORA shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of AGUADORA, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by AGUADORA pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿9
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
'N  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
* :"~ 'tatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
By /s/ Gustavo Escoto Goenaga
Authorized Representative


