CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part A Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part A Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿PART A PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA (hereinafter called BAVINIC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BAVINIC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BAVINIC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for Linder the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BAVINIC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BAVINIC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)   the term "c6rdoba" means the currency of the Borrower.
(b)   the term "Housing Fund" means the fund referred to in Section 2.04
of this Agreement; and


﻿4
(c)   the term  "INVI" means "Instituto Nicaragiiense de la Vivienda", a
department of BAVINIC responsible for the construction of low-cost housing.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. BAVINIC shall carry out Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, through INVI, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. BAVINIC shall sell the sites to be developed under Part A
of the Project in accordance with the chronological order in which applications
for them are received, provided, however, that applicants must satisfy the following
eligibility criteria:
(i)         that they were displaced by the December 23, 1972 earthquake;
(ii)        that their monthly income, together with       that of their
dependents who would occupy such sites, does not exceed 1,100
c6rdobas, and provided further that about 30%-of such sites
shall be assigned to applicants with income, so computed, not
exceeding 500 c6rdobas; and
(iii)       that they undertake to make a downpayment, at the time the
respective site is assigned, equal to 5% of the price of the site,
provided that this requirement shall not apply to the applicants
described in the proviso to paragraph (ii) of this Section.
Section 2.03. BAVINIC shall enter into loan agreements with the assignees
of the sites included in Part A of the Project providing for the granting of loans
for the acquisition of such sites and construction materials to build thereon,
repayable in 22 years with interest at the rate of 5% per year on outstanding
amounts; provided that ownership of the sites shall be transferred to the assignees
promptly after they shall have built one room, or an additional room in the case
of sites under Part A. I of the Project, to the satisfaction of BAVINIC; and provided
further that simultaneously with the transfer of property rights on such sites a
mortgage securing such loans shall be constituted thereon in favor of BAVINIC.
Section 2.04. BAVINIC shall:
(a)   establish and maintain a fund (hereinafter called the Housing Fund);


﻿5
(b)   establish and maintain separate accounts to record the operations of
the Housing Fund;
(c)   credit the Housing Fund with such amounts as BAVINIC shall receive,
from time to time, from (i) the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.02(a)(i) and 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement; (ii) assignees of sites
included in Part A of the Project, pursuant to the loan agreements referred to
in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and (iii) assignees of the sites and housing
referred to in Section 3.02(ii) of this Agreement, pursuant to the loans provided
for therein; and
(d)   pay out of the Housing Fund (i) expenditures incurred in the carrying out
of development works included in Part A of the Project or referred to in Section
3.02(i) of this Agreement; (ii) amounts disbursed against the loans referred to in
Sections 2.03 and 3.02(ii) of this Agreement; and (iii) administrative expenditures
incurred by BAVINIC in the processing and supervision of such loans, but not
in excess of 2% of the aggregate principal amount of such loans, outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.05. In order to assist BAVINIC in carrying out Part A of the
Project, BAVINIC shall employ, as advisors, a structural engineer experienced in
housing and small building construction in earthquake zones, an architect or
municipal engineer familiar with locally available building materials, and a specialist
in social sciences, all acceptable to the Association and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.06. In carrying out Part A of the Project, BAVINIC shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
seivices (other than services of consultants) required for Part A of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BAVINIC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by BAVINIC to replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, BAVINIC   shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) BAVINIC shall furnish to the Association, for its approval,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   BAVINIC shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation
upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine Part A of the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so made available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.10. BAVINIC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Grant
Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. BAVINIC shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
take title and possession, and to have such title duly recorded, in respect of all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in Parts A. 1 and A.2 of the Project, as
and when such title, possession and rights are transferred by the Borrower to
BAVINIC, pursuant to Section 3.03(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BAVINIC
Section 3.01. BAVINIC shall increase INVI's permanent staff by employing:
(a)   a senior architect, a senior engineer and a senior sociologist whose
duties will be confined exclusively to the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
and


﻿7
(b) an engineer, three foremen to provide technical awstancc, two
inspectors and two social workers per each 1,000 serviced sites financed; provided
that all such personnel shall reside where the respective serviced sites are located,
during, at least, two years commencing with the beginning of construction of the
shelter units on such sites.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BAVINIC shall,
after Part A of the Project has been completed, use all funds available in the Housing
Funds to (i) carry out further development of residential serviced sites designed
for low-cost housing and (ii) make loans for low-cost housing to the assignees of
such sites, such housing to be earthquake-resistant and suitably located.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BAVJNIC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. BAVINIC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BAVINIC and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and BAVINIC shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and BAVINIC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance by BAVINIC of its
obligations under the Grant Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of BAVINIC and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The Association and BAVINIC shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or
BAVINIC of their respective obligations under the Grant Agreement.
Section 5.03. BAVINIC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all sites, works, properties and equipment of BAVINIC and any relevant
records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BAVINIC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿*                                 9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BAVINIC:
Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
Banco de la Vivienda
Managua, Nicaragua
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
Jocuments required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BAVINIC may be taken or executed by the Presidente of BAVINIC or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. BAVINIC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BAVINIC, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by BAVINIC pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DE NICARAGUA
By /s/ Gustavo Escoto Goenaga
Authorized Representative


