CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and by Banco de
la Virienca c/e Nicaragua, Empresa Aguadora de Managua, Enpresa Nacional c/e
Lu: Y Fuerza, and Instituto de Fomento Nacional, all of them with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to them
several parts of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the project agreements of even (late
herewith between the Association and Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua, Em71presa
Aguadora de M'Ianaguai, Emnpresa Aacional de Luz Y Fuerza, and Instituto c/e
Fomento Nacional, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of thp
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 3 1, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renurnbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "BAVINIC" means Banco de la Vivienda de Nicaragua, an agency of
the Borrower established by Decreto No. 1192 of the Borrower dated June 1,
1966;
(b)   "Part A  Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BAVINIC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c)   "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BAVINIC pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(i) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "AGUADORA" means Empresa Aguadora de Managua, an agency of
the Borrower established by Decreto No. 17B of the Borrower dated June 29,
1963, as amended pursuant to Decreto No. 292 of the Borrower, dated
February 16, 1972.
(e)   "Part B Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AGUADORA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(f)   "Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AGUADORA pursuan, to Section
3.02(a)(ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)   "ENALUF" means Enpresa Nacional de Luz v Fuerza, an agency of
the Borrower established by the Ley' Consttitutiva de la Empresa Nacional de Luz
Y Fuerza, dated October 14, 1954;
(h)   "Part C Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ENALUF of even date herewith, as the same may be arnended
from time to time;
(i)   "Part C Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ENALUF pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(ii)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(j)   "INFONAC" means Instituto de Fomento Nacional, an agency of the
Borrower established by Decreto No. 54, dated November 19, 1952;
(k)   "Part D Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and INFONAC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;


﻿*                                               5
(1)   "Part D Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entercd into between the Borrower and INFONAC pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(ii)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(in)  "Project Agreements" means the agreements defined in paragraphs (b),
(e), (h) and (k) hereof;
(n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements defined in
paragraphs (f), (i) and (1) hereof; and
(0)   "sub-loan" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(a) of the Part
D Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of:
(a)   expenditures under Part A of the Project, until evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association:
i           that the execution and delivery of the Part A Project Agreement
on behalf of BAVINIC have been authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate action;
00          that the execution and delivery of the Grant Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BAVINIC, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(iii)      the Association has been furnished with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the


﻿6
Association showing that the Part A Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of BAVINIC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BAVINIC in accordance with its terms and that
the Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
BAVINIC, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower and BAVINIC in accordance with
its terms;
(b)   expenditures tinder Part B of the Project, until evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association:
(i)        that the execution and delivery of the Part B Project Agreement
on behalf of AGUADORA have been authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(ii)       that the execution and delivery of the Part B Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and AGUADORA
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(iii)      the Association has been furnished with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing that the Part B Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of AGUADORA and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AGUADORA in accordance with its terms and that
the Part B Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and AGUADORA, respectively, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower and AGUADORA in
accordance with its terms;
(c)   expenditures under Part C of the Project, until evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association:
(i)        that the execution and delivery of the Part C Project Agreement
on behalf of ENALUF have been authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(ii)       that the execution and delivery of the Part C Subsidiary Loan
Agreement   on   behalf of the Borrower and      ENALUF,


﻿7
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(iii)      the Association has been furnished with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing that the Part C Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of ENALUF, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ENALUF in accordance with its terms and that
the Part C Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and ENALUF, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and ENALUF in accordance
with its terms;
(d)   expenditures under Part D of the Project, until evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association:
(i)         that the execution and delivery of the Part D Project Agreement
on behalf of INFONAC have been authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action,
(ii)       that the execution and delivery of the Part D Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and INFONAC,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(iii)      the Association has been furnished with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing that the Part D Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of INFONAC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of INFONAC in accordance with its terms and that
the Part D Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and INFONAC, respectively, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower and INFONAC in
accordance with its terms;
(e)   expenditures under Part D(ii) of the Project until the investments to
be financed thereunder shall have been approved by the Association;
(f)   expenditures under Part E. 3 of the Project until evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the Borrower


﻿8
has made arrangements to obtain technical and financial assistance to plan and
start operations of the technical institute and to procure equipment for it, both
such technical and financial assistance to be provided by such parties and under
such terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)   expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1983 and ending December 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause


﻿9
BAVINIC, AGUADORA, ENALUF and INFONAC to perform, in accordance with
the provisions of their respective Project Agreements and the Grant or Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, as the case may be, all the obligations therein set forth, (ii)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable them to perform
such obligations, and (iii) not take, or permit to be taken, any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit,
(i) make available the equivalent of eight million dollars ($8,000,000) to BAVINIC
under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BAVINIC, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association (herein
called the Grant Agreement); and (ii) relend the equivalent of two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000) to AGUADORA, the equivalent of five
million dollars ($5,000,000) to ENALUF, and the equivalent of two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000) to INFONAC, respectively, under subsidiary
loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of" them
respectively under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall inter alia include those set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreement and
each Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Grant Agreement or of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
timely execution of Part A of the Project- (ii) transfer to BAVINIC free of charge,
title, possession and all other ancillary rights to the land to be used for Parts
A.1 and A.2 of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition and upon request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to such
Part of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of Part E of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿10
financial, educational and architectural practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. To assist in carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain the Project Unit established pursuant to Section 5.01(d) of the Loan
Agreement (Education Project) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated
April 10, 1968, such unit to be responsible for the proper execution and supervision
of Part E of the Project.
Section 4.03. In the carrying out of Part E of the Project the Borrower
shall employ qualified and experienced architectural consultants, and the services
of an expert in school construction and related procurement, all acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association, to an extent and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in the carrying out of Part E of the Project, employ contractors acceptable
to the Association to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the BorrowLr
shall furnish to the Association, for its approval, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Part E of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and to be used in the execution of Part E of the Project,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for the
carrying out of Part E of the Project to be used exclusively for such Part of the
Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿11
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part E of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out said part of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall promptly take all steps required under
the Borrower's laws on expropriation of land for purposes of public use in order
to acquire, not later than December 31, 1973, or such other date as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, the ownership of all land not otherwise
acquired by the Borrower which shall be required for the educational institutions
included in Part E of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not award any construction contract concerning any of the
educational institutions included in Part E of the Project until it shall fully own
all land required for such construction.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, for the purposes set forth in Section 2.04
of the Part A Project Agreement, make available to BAVINIC such amounts as
are due, from time to time, to the Borrower from AGUADORA, ENALUF and
INFONAC, pursuant to the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements therewith.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project, (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall (i) operate the educational institutions
included in Parts A.3 and E of the Project at their designed capacity and in
accordance with sound administrative and educational policies and practices with
due regard to economy so as to promote the educational objectives of the Borrowei,
and (ii) cause said institutions to be staffed with teachers and administrators in
adequate numbers.


﻿12
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture, and
equipment of the community facilities included in Part A.3 of the Project, and
the educational institutions included in Parts A.3  and E of the Project to be
adequately maintained; (ii) cause all necessary renewals and repairs to be made
thereto; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other rescarces required for the purpose.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   submit to the Association, for consultation, by December 31, 1973,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
a comprehensive proposal for the reconstruction and development of the city of
Managua and the surrounding region, in relation to the growth of other cit,s in
Nicaragua, and exchange views thereon with a panel of experts to be appointed
by the Borrower, the Association and such other international organizations as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   not permit the construction of any administrative buildings, schools,
hospitals, markets, commercial centers, high-rise buildings or high-density buildings
in the city of Managua until the Borrower shall have adopted a definitive plan
taking into consideration the proposal and exchange of views referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)   carry out or cause to be carried out studies (i) to identify areas the
geology of which carries less risk of seismological damage than the Managua area,
and to compare the cost of building in such places with the cost of reconstruction
in the Managua area, and (ii) to analyze the sub-soil conditions of the Managua
area, especially the downtown area of the city of Managua.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by BAVINIC, AGUADORA, ENALUF and INFONAC


﻿13
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreements, the Grant Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to which each of them is a party, the
administration, operations, resources and expenditures of BAVINIC, AGUADORA,
ENALUF and INFONAC, and in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 6.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of BAVINIC,
AGUADORA, ENALUF and INFONAC and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by BAVINIC, AGUADORA, ENALUF and
INFONAC of their respective obligations Linder the Project Agreements, the Grant
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to which each of them is a party.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 7.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿14
Section 7.02. This Agreement and the Project Agreements shall be free from
any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 7.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Association
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 8.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BAVINIC, AGUADORA. ENALUF or INFONAC shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the respective Project Agreements, or the
Grant Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to which it is a party.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BAVINIC, AGUADORA,
ENALUF or INFONAC or for the suspension of its operations.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BAVINIC, AGUADORA, ENALUF or INFONAC will be able to
perform its obligations under the respective Project Agreement to which it is a
party.
Section 8.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 8.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice


﻿15
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the respective
institution.
(b)   any event specified in Section 8.02(b) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE IX
Termination
Section 9.01. The date of August 7, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 5.03 and 5.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Ainistro de Ilacienda Y Crddito Phlico of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes ,f'
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crdito Pblico
Palacio Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
MINI HACIENDA
Managua, Nicaragua
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿16
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Guillermo Sevilla Sacasa
Au thorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿17
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
I.         Civil works and              7,230,000         60% of total
Construction                                   expenditures
materials
11.        Consultants'                   770,000         100  of foreign
services                                       expenditures or
60% of total
expenditures
Part B of the Project
III.       Repair and                     675,000         80% of total
rehabilitation                                 expenditures
work
IV.        Equipment and                  200,000         100% of foreign
materials                                      expenditures or
95% of local
expenditures
V.        Civil works under             1,260,000         55% of total
Part B.3                                       expenditures
Part C of the Project
VI.       Civil works                     370,000         40% of total
expenditures
VII.       Equipment and                4,230,000         100% of foreign
materials                                      expenditures or
95% of local
expenditures


﻿18
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part D of the Project
ViII.      Sub-loans                     2,500,000         50% of amounts
disbursed under
the sub-loans
Part E of the Project
IX.  Civil works:
(a)  For Part E.1 of                 425,000         90% of total
the Project                                     expenditures
(b)  For Part E.2 and                910,000         57% of total
3 of the Project                                expenditures
X.         Consultants'                    90,000          57% of total
services                                        expenditures
XI.        Technical                       15,000          100% of foreign
assistance                                      expenditures
XIl.       Equipment and                  260,000          100% of foreign
furniture                                       expenditures or
90% of total
expenditures
XIII.      Unallocated
Part B                          365,000
Part C                          400,000
Part E                         300,000
TOTAL             20,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿19
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures (i) under Parts B.1 and
2 of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000;
(ii) under Part C.1 of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $900,000; and (iii) under Part E.1 of the Project in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000; provided that they have been
incurred prior to such date but after January 1, 1973;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I a ove
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿20
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimated total expenditures under Categories I, II,
III, V, VI, IX, X or XII or the estimated local expenditures under Categories IV
or VII shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to reconstruct and rehabilitate
its economy after the earthquake which partially destroyed Managua on
December 23, 1972. It consists of:
Part A:      Sites and Services
1.    Development of about 5,900 serviced residential sites and construction
thereon of shelter core units. Each site of about 105 square meters will be serviced
by individual electricity, water connections, and sanitary sewers, as well as overall
storm water drainage, street lighting and bituminous roads.
The development of the sites includes construction, on each site, of a 20
square meters earthquake-resistant shelter and a sanitary core unit with a washing
unit (pilar), a shower and a toilet.
Approximately 2,250 sites will be located in the city of Managua; 850 sites
in the city of Masaya; 870 sites in the city of Granada; 830 sites in the city
of Le6n; 700 sites in the department of Carazo; and 400 sites in such city or
cities as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    Development of about 500 serviced residential sites in Managua, as described
in the preceding paragraph, without shelter units, and provision of credit to the
beneficiaries of such sites to purchase building materials to build shelters.
3.    Construction of community facilities for the sites referred in paragraphs 1
and 2 above, including primary schools, health clinics, community centers with
sanitary facilities, administrative space, meeting rooms and market areas with
washing facilities.
The specific location of sites and facilities within each city or department
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:      Water Supply
1.    Emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing installations: construction of
three steel reservoirs, repair of four concrete reservoirs, stabilization of the Laguna
Asososca embankment, construction of a maintenance building and chlorination
station, and carrying out of a leakage survey.


﻿22
2.   Procurement and use of equipment and materials required for repair,
rehabilitation and maintenance work.
3.   The carrying out of the civil works under Parts A, B, C and E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresa
Aguadora de Managua (Second Managua Water Supply Project) dated March 17,
1972.
Part C:    Power
1.   Emergency repair and rehabilitation of existing installations:
(a)  Power Plant and Substations: (i) repair of three generating units, boilers
and other equipment and the Managua steam plant building; and (ii) replacement
of damaged equipment in the sub-stations and repair of the indoor substation of
the Managua steam plant.
(b)   Distribution: (i) replacement of damaged equipment and materials to
serve the outlying areas of the city of Managua; and (ii) dismantling and withdrawal
of damaged components of the distribution network.
(c)   Approximately 15,000 consumer connections, including replacement
of damaged equipment and materials, and new measuring transformers meters,
insulators, switches and fuses.
2.   Construction of an extension to the primary and secondary network, and
installation of the corresponding consumer connections, to provide electric service
to provisional housing units in the outlying areas of the city of Managua.
3.   Construction of additions to the Oriental substation at the city of Managua
and the substations at the cities of Masaya, Jinotepe and Chichigalpa and
procurement and putting into service of 2 mobile 15 MVA substations.
4.    Annual Work Program for 1973-1974:
(a)   Expansion of the primary and secondary distribution networks and
public lighting facilities in various localities throughout the country.
(b)   Expansion of the Sosacloro substation at Managua.
(c)   Construction and improvement of office facilities, warehouses and
workshops and acquisition of vehicles, communications equipment and spare parts
therefor.


﻿23
Part D:     Industry
The provision of credit to finance (i) the procurement of fixed capital assets
for medium-sized industries, and (ii) the development of serviced industrial sites,
both to be located in cities other than Managua.
Part E:     Education
Construction, in Managua, of:
1.    Prefabricated facilities for four general secondary schools, with an aggregate
capacity of about 4,000 student places;
2.    Two multilateral secondary schools, with an aggregate capacity of about
2,900 student places, including furnishing and equipping.
3.    One technical institute, with a capacity of about 500 student places, including
furnishing.
The location and site for each of the above educational institutions shall
be selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    International Competitive Bidding for Civil Works
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, other than those referred to
in paragraphs C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a)   If contractors or suppliers are required     to  prequalify, before
qualification is invited, the Association shall be informed of the procedure to be
followed and such modifications shall be introduced in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified contractors and
suppliers, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and such additions
to or deletions from the list shall be made as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Association shall be furnished, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and such modifications shall be made in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders; provided that for the purpose of bidding, the
civil works under Part A.1 and 2 shall be divided into 5 bidding lots to be tendered
simultaneously, either singly or in combination.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Association shall be
informed, before a final decision on the award is made, of the name of the bidder
to whom it is intended to award the contract and the Association shall be furnished,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and BAVINIC or ENALUF, as the case may be,
state the reasons for such determination and advise the Borrower of any cancellation
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿25
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of ',he first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works, other than those referred to
in paragraphs C. 1 and C.2 of this Schedule, estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $100,000, the Association shall be furnished, promptly after the execution of
any such contract and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably req uest. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and BAVINIC or ENALUF, as the case may be,
state the reasons for such determination and advise the Borrower of any cancellation
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
B.    International Competitive Bidding for Materials, Furniture and Equipnent
1.    With respect to any contract for naterials, furniture or equipment, other
than those referred to in paragraph C.2 of this Schedule, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more, the provisions of paragraph A.1 of this Schedule
shall apply.
2.    With respect to any contract for materials, furniture or equipment, other
than those referred to in paragraph C.2 of this Schedule, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $25,000 the provisions of paragraph A.2 of this Schedule
shall apply.
3.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for materials, furniture
or equipment, customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on locally produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent
hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f.
(port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally
produced goods. The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental .to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be taken into account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7
of the Guidelines for Procurement.


﻿26
4.    Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)  the term   "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Central American Common Market
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed
to be a "Non-Central American Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)        the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods to
the site designated in the specifications;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid with any
Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)       half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods from
the port of entry to the site designated in the specifications.
5.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of preference to
be granted.
C.   Special Provisions
1.   Goods and services required for Part B.3 of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement between the Bank and
Empresa Aguadora de Managua (Second Managua Water Supply Project) dated
March 17, 1972.
2.   Contracts for goods and services required for Parts B.1 and 2 and C.1 and
2 of the Project shall be awarded on a negotiated basis and with the prior
approval of the Association.


﻿27
3.    Goods and services required for Part D of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04(a)(ii)(1) of the Part D Project
Agreement.
4.    The provisions of sub-paragraph A.1(e) of this Schedule shall apply to any
contract awarded under this paragraph C.
5.    Goods and services required for Part E of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement (Education
Project) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated April 10, 1968 and the letter
supplemental thereto entitled "Procurement", of even date therewith.
I-


﻿28
SCHEDULE 4
Terms of lending under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Term of Loan
Part of        Sub-        including      Grace
the Project    Borrower    Grace Period    Period     Rate of Interest*
(years)
B          AGUADORA          20           6       no interest to
accrue during
the grace period;
7.25% thereafter
C          ENALUF            20           5       no interest to
accrue during
the grace period;
7.25% thereafter
D          INFONAC           12           3       no interest to accrue
during the grace
period; 6.75%
thereafter
(*)  Per annum, on principal outstanding.


