CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part D Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part D Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿PART D PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,      dated  June   6,  1973, between    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL (hereinafter called INFONAC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that INFONAC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and INFONAC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to INFONAC on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS INFONAC, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
INFONAC to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and to be financed
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit relent by the Borrower to INFONAC.
(b)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which INFONAC
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.


﻿4
(c)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be (i)
located in a city or locality other than Managua and (ii) carried out by an
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan; and
(d)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by any Investment Enterprise or by any one or more subsidiaries of
any Investment Enterprise or by any Investment Enterprise and one or more of
its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. INFONAC shall carry out Part D of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with sound financial and investment standards and practices,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   each sub-loan shall finance not more than 60% of the total cost of
any Investment Project, after excluding from such cost the cost of acquiring land
or rights thereon:
(b)   sub-loans shall be repaid in not me 2 than 10 years, including not
more than 3 years of grace, and shall carry interest at the rate of 8.75% per year
on outstanding amounts;
(c)   any sub-loan which by itself or together with any other sub-loan to
the same Investment Enterprise or any subsidiary thereof would exceed the
equivalent of $100,000, shall be made only with the prior approval of the
Association;
(d)   no sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise or any subsidiary
thereof if, when added to other sub-loan made or proposed to be made to the
same Investment Enterprise or any subsidiary thereof, it would exceed the
equivalent of $250,000; and
(e)   the equivalent of $300,000 shall be reserved for sub-loans to finance
the development of industrial serviced sites, approved by the Association, in cities
other than Managua.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Promptly after making a sub-loan and before submitting to
the Association a withdrawal application in respect of payments made thereunder,
INFONAC shall submit to the Association a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including its technical,
financial and marketing aspects, and a description of the expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the sub-loan), and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
Section 2.04. (a) INFONAC undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms whereby INFONAC shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and
INFONAC, including the right of INFONAC to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or INFONAC shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise: and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform any of its obligations under its contract with INFONAC.
(b)   INFONAC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and INFONAC:
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of Part D of the Project.


﻿6
Section 2.05. INFONAC shall establish and maintain a separate account and
shall record therein: (i) all amounts received from and payments made to the
Borrower under the Part D Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) amounts disbursed
to and received from Investment Enterprises; and (iii) expenditures incurred in
the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
Section 2.06. INFONAC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Part
D Subsidiary Loan Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
INFONAC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Part D Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of INFONAC
Section 3.01. In order to assist INFONAC in improving its internal
organization and accounting system, INFONAC shall employ management
consultants, acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. INFONAC shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part D of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the
cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of INFONAC.
Section 4.02. INFONAC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of INFONAC and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 4.03. INFONAC shall take such steps, satisfactory to the Association,
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including the currency
of the Borrower) used in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.0 1. INFONAC shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit relent by the Borrower to INFONAC, Part D of the Project,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the sub-loans.
Section 5.02. The Association and INFONAC shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and INFONAC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance by INFONAC of its
obligations under the Part D Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of INFONAC and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.03. The Association and INFONAC shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or
INFONAC of their respective obligations under the Part D Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of INFONAC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿8
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date when the Part D Subsidiary Loan, together with interest
and all other charges thereon, shall have been paid.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify INFONAC of this event, and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
For INFONAC:
Instituto de Fomento Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
INFONAC
Managua
Nicaragua
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of INFONAC may be taken or executed by the Gerente General of INFONAC
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. INFONAC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of INFONAC, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by INFONAC pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
By /s/ Gustavo Escoto Goenaga
Authorized Representative


