CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part C Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 389 NI
Part C Project Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
DATED JUNE 6, 1973


﻿PART C PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA (hereinafter called ENALUF).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that ENALUF agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ENALUF, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ENALUF on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ENALUF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
*        obliganons hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENALUF shall carry out Part C of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency


﻿4
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part C of the Project, ENALUF shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Part C of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreemflent.
Section 2.04. (a) ENALUF undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
ENALUF to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ENALUF shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part C of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ENALUF shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for Part C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   ENALUF shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in Part C of the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part C
of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
Section 2.06. ENALUF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Part
C Subsidiary Loan Agreement and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ENALUF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Part C Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. ENALUF shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in Part
C of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENALUF
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENALUF
shall at all times maintain its existence and shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   ENALUF shall at all times conduct its operations under competent
and experienced management, in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices and with the assistance of adequate,
competent and experienced staff.
(c)   ENALUF shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair its
facilities, plants, equipment and machinery in accordance with sound engineering
and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. ENALUF shall not, without the consent of the Association,
sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property and assets or
all or substantially all the property included in the Project or any of the property
or plant financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower or necessary for its operations.
Section 3.03. ENALUF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ENALUF shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ENALUF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ENALUF and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENALUF
undertakes towards the Association the obligations set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.04,.
3.05 and 3.06 of the Loan Agreement (Eighth Power Project) between the Bank
and Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza, dated June 28, 1972, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ENALUF shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ENALUF shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance by ENALUF of its
obligations under the Part C Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of ENALUF and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ENALUF shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿7
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or
ENALUF of their respective obligations under the Part C Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. ENALUF shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of ENALUF and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ENALUF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date when the Part C Subsidiary Loan, together with interest
and all other charges thereon, shall have been paid.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ENALUF of this event, and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿8
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Associq:ion:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ENALUF:
Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza                                    t
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
ENALUF
Managua, Nicaragua
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ENALUF may be taken or executed by the Presidente Ejecutivo of ENALUF
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ENALUF shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ENALUF, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by ENALUF pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the patties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin Anerica and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
By /s/ Gustavo Escoto Goenaga
Authorized Representative


