                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2266



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38890)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 62.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                     FOR A

         SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT



                                  June 27, 2013




Urban Development and Services Practice 2 (AFTU2)
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective April 2013)

                  Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedi
                      Cedi 1.00 = US$ 0.52
                      US$ 1.00 = 1.94 Cedi

                       FISCAL YEAR 2013


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de Development (French Development Agency)
AMA      Accra Metropolitan Assembly
BOD      Biological Oxygen Demand (a measure of the organic pollution load)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CWSA     Community Water and Sanitation Agency
DESSAP   District Environmental Sanitation Strategy and Action Plan
DO       Development Objective
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West African States
EHSD     Environmental Health and Sanitation Directorate
ESP      Environmental Sanitation Policy
GAMA     Greater Accra Metropolitan Area
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GHC      Ghanaian Cedi
GPRS     Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
GSGDA    Ghana Shared Growth Development Agenda
GWSC     Ghana Water and Sewerage Company
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IO       Intermediate Outcome
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
LGPCU    Local Government Projects Coordination Unit
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MMAs     Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies (Local Governments)
MMDA     Municipal and District Assemblies
MOFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLGRD    Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MS       Moderately Satisfactory
MTDF     Medium Term Development Framework
MU       Moderately Unsatisfactory
MWRWH    Ministry of Water Resources, Works and Housing
N/A      Not Applicable
NDF      Norwegian Development Fund
NGO      Non-government organization
NWP      National Water Policy
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMU      Project Management Unit
PURC     Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
QAE      Quality at Entry
QSA      Quality of Supervision
SEC      State Enterprises Commission
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
STMA     Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolitan Assembly
TA       Technical Assistance
TAMA     Tamale Metropolitan Assembly
ToR      Terms of Reference
TMA      Tema Municipal/Metropolitan Assembly
UEMOA    West African Economic and Monetary Union
UESP-1   Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
UESP-2   Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
UNICEF   United Nations International Children’s Education Fund
WASH     Water, Sanitation and Hygiene
WHO      World Health Organization
WMD      Waste Management Department
WSDB     Water and Sanitation Development Boards
WSS      Water Supply and Sanitation
XDR      Special Drawing Rights




                  Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                Country Director: Yusupha Crookes
                 Sector Manager: Alexander Bakalian
            Project Team Leader: Ventura Bengoechea
               ICR Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo
                                    COUNTRY: GHANA
                         Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 32
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 44
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 50
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 60
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 61
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 64
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 65
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                              GH Second Urban
Country:                 Ghana                      Project Name:             Environmental
                                                                              Sanitation Project
Project ID:              P082373                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38890
ICR Date:                06/27/2013                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                              GHANA
Original Total
                         XDR 41.60M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 39.98M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          N/A
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) 1
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
The Nordic Development Fund (NDF); and the French Development Agency (AFD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process                Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:          04/2/2003       Effectiveness:            10/27/2004          10/27/2004
                                                                                          6/3/10;
Appraisal:              01/22/2004       Restructuring(s):            N/A                12/5/11;
                                                                                         12/18/12
Approval:               04/29/2004       Mid-term Review:          07/15/2007          09/01/2008
                                         Closing:                  06/30/2010          12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Substantial
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory




1
 The Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies (MMAs) of the participating cities were responsible for
implementation of their respective components under the coordination of the PCU under MLGRD.


                                                                                                       i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                         Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance 2:                                  Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                            Unsatisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QAE):Yes
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                             2                     2
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector               85                    85
Roads and highways                                                   5                     5
Sub-national government administration                               8                     8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                         16                    16
Other human development                                             17                    17
Other urban development                                             17                    17
Pollution management and environmental health                       17                    17
Urban services and housing for the poor                             33                    33




2
 Based on the ICR guidelines, the composite ratings for Bank and Borrower performance
are linked to the overall outcome.


                                                                                                ii
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:               Makhtar Diop                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:             Yusupha B. Crookes                       Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:               Alexander E. Bakalian                    Inger Andersen
Project Team Leader:          Ventura Bengoechea                       Gerhard Tschannerl
ICR Team Leader:              Ventura Bengoechea
ICR Primary Author:           Sanyu Lutalo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to improve urban living conditions in regard to
environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management
in a sustainable fashion, with special emphasis on the poor.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised           Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values          Target Years
                  Reduction in number of residents of the communities in the project complaining
Indicator 1 :
                  about refuse accumulations and flooding.
Value
quantitative or   03                             15%                   N/A              38.8%. 4
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/27/2004                 06/30/2010          12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments          The target is considered to have been fully achieved. Based on the BA findings,
(incl. %          the number of residents complaining about refuse accumulation is estimated to


3
  Baseline data was not availed at appraisal but is given as zero since the indicator definition ‘reduction’
presupposes a zero baseline.

4
  The BA did not explicitly include measurement of complaints with respect to the mentioned PDO as
defined, but provided data on “before’ and ‘after’ project conditions which the ICR uses to infer end-of-
project conditions compared to those at appraisal in respect to the target. It estimates the reduction in
number of residents not complaining about refuse accumulation based on the difference in respondents
without household collection or access to skips (38.8%) before and after the project.




                                                                                                               iii
achievement)      have reduced by 38.8%, as explained in the footnote, and those complaining
                  about flooding are inferred as having reduced significantly given the observed
                  reduction in frequency and severity of flooding.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                  Percent of people living or working near the newly lined drains who report
Indicator 1 :
                  reduced flooding.
Value
(quantitative     0                           50%                  N/A               (See comment).
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   10/27/2004                  06/30/2010          12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        The target is considered to have been fully achieved. The BA provided anecdotal
(incl. %        evidence indicating that flooding in the project areas was significantly reduced as
achievement)    a result of the project, which the ICR deems to constitute no less than 50 %.
                Additional number of people and school children gaining access to satisfactory
Indicator 2 :
                latrines.
                                                                               The estimated total
                                                                               beneficiaries 5 were
                                                                               238,883; 165,873
Value                                       230,000 people                     for households,
(quantitative   0                           and 70,000 school N/A              23,590 for public
or Qualitative)                             children                           latrines, (i.e.
                                                                               189,463 people)
                                                                               and 49,420 school
                                                                               beneficiaries.
Date achieved 10/27/2004                    06/30/2010          12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        The end-of-project target for total beneficiaries was substantially achieved
(incl. %        (80%); the combined target for household and public latrines was 82%
achievement) achieved 6, while that for school beneficiaries was 71% achieved.
                Number of project towns in which the total MSW collected increased by at least
Indicator 3 :
                5% per year.
Value
(quantitative   0                           5                   N/A            5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/27/2004                    06/30/2010          12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        The end-of-project target was 100% achieved.


5
 There is a discrepancy between the ISR numbers and the Beneficiary Assessment. Where there is a
discrepancy, the latter is considered.

6
  The number of public toilets was reduced in favor of additional household latrines due to higher demand
for the latter, resulting in a greater number of household latrines, but fewer beneficiaries overall.


                                                                                                        iv
Indicator 4 :     Length of access roads to communities surfaced, with roadside drains
Value
(quantitative     None                      11.5 km             N/A           11.6 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/27/2004                06/30/2010          12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          The target was 100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Number of WMDs in which at least 60% of serviceable waste management
Indicator 5 :
                  equipment is in operating condition.
Value
                  Baseline not provided in
(quantitative                              5                    N/A           5.
                  PAD
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/27/2004                06/30/2010          12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was fully achieved (100%).
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     11/12/2004              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     04/28/2005              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.63
  3     12/14/2005              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.34
                                Moderately
  4     06/15/2006                                       Unsatisfactory                     3.43
                               Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately
  5     12/14/2006                                 Moderately Satisfactory                  4.04
                               Unsatisfactory
                                                        Moderately
  6     06/25/2007             Unsatisfactory                                               5.06
                                                      Unsatisfactory
                                                        Moderately
  7     11/30/2007             Unsatisfactory                                               7.00
                                                      Unsatisfactory
  8     05/30/2008       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 13.51
  9     11/26/2008       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 17.80
 10     05/21/2009       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 21.93
 11     12/01/2009       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 26.39
 12     06/10/2010       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 29.97
 13     03/26/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 38.21
 14     11/14/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 42.84
 15     06/11/2012       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 50.93
 16     02/04/2013       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 59.24




                                                                                                   v
H. Restructuring
The project was restructured three times. The first restructuring, approved on June 3,
2010, involved an extension of the project closing date by eighteen months, from June 30,
2010 to December 31, 2011 to allow for completion of outstanding activities that had
been delayed, and reallocation of funds between categories. The second restructuring,
approved on December 5, 2011, involved a second extension of the closing date by five
months from December 31, 2011 to May 31, 2012, to allow additional time for
completion of works in Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Kumasi, and reallocation of funds
between categories. The third and final restructuring approved on December 18, 2012
involved extension of the closing date by an additional seven months from May 31, 2012
to December 31, 2012, to allow additional time for the Government to process
compensation payments to Project Affected People (PAPs), and introduction of a new
Category – Compensation Payments to Project Affected Persons. All three restructurings
were Second level Restructurings.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                                      vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Republic of Ghana, West Africa’s second most populous 7 country after Nigeria, has
maintained steady positive urbanization trends since attaining its independence from Britain in
1957. The country’s urban population almost doubled between 1960 and 2000, from about 23.1
percent to 43.8 percent; by 2010 it had risen to about 51 percent (Source: UNFPA, 2007, 2009).
The five largest cities 8: Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and Tema are home to about
23 percent of Ghana’s total population and about half of its urban population. The nation’s
capital, Accra, and the second largest city, Kumasi, together account for about 34 percent of the
urban population and produce almost 20 percent of Ghana’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Ghana’s cities are centers of both affluence and poverty, with huge disparities in socioeconomic
and urban environmental conditions among high and lower income areas. According to Ghana’s
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2000-2002), about 14.5 of the country’s urban
population were classified as poor at the time the project was appraised.

Sectoral Background and Key Issues: The provision of basic infrastructure and services such
as, housing, water supply, sanitation, urban transport, stormwater drainage, and refuse collection
and disposal has unfortunately been unable to keep up with the rapid urbanization. At the time
the project was appraised, deficiencies in access to basic infrastructure and services were largely
skewed towards the lower income areas, including peri-urban informal settlements and slums,
while services were better in the higher and middle income areas where people were willing and
able to pay for them. In 2001, almost 70 percent of Ghana’s urban population lived in slums 9.
Conditions in many low income areas manifested a series of physical, economic, and social
characteristics, including, inter-alia: (a) poor aesthetic and unsanitary living conditions due to
refuse accumulations; (b) poor road and drainage conditions, leading to soil erosion, siltation of
drainage channels, frequent flooding, and inadequate vehicular access, especially during heavy
rains; (c) public health concerns linked to creation of breeding sites for disease vectors such as
malaria and other water-borne and water-based diseases; and (d) social concerns such as crime
and the spread of diseases like HIV. The urban poor, who primarily resided or worked in such
areas, suffered disproportionately as a result of these conditions.


7
  At appraisal (2003), Ghana had an estimated population of about 20.5 million people; by 2012 the population was
estimated at 24.6 million people, about 20 percent growth.

8
  The estimated population of the five cities was as follows: Accra (1.9 million, with the Greater Accra area housing
3.2 million people); Kumasi (1.5 million); Sekondi-Takoradi (400,000); Tema (200,000); and Tamale (150,000).

9
 According to the 2008 Millennium Development Goals Report, published by National Development Planning
Commission (NDPC)/ Government of Ghana and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Ghana,
April 2010, an estimated 69.6 percent of the urban population lived in slums.




                                                                                                                    1
In addition to, and underlying the mentioned urban infrastructure and services deficiencies,
Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies (MMAs) 10, the local government authorities mandated
to manage delivery of these services in the cities, faced financial and institutional challenges that
further threatened the quality and sustainability of available services. Responsibility for
managing environmental sanitation was delegated from central government to the local level
(MMAs) in line with the Government of Ghana (GOG)’s Decentralization Policy, enacted
through the Local Government Service Act passed by the country’s Parliament in June 2003.
However, the transfer of responsibilities for these activities to the Assemblies was done without
adequate transfer of resources. Further constraints in the enabling environment such as frequent
turnover and inadequate qualification of staff in some areas hindered the MMA’s capacity to
deliver services in a sustainable manner. These concerns were linked to secondary factors such
as, low remuneration in the public service, attrition to the private sector, and frequent transfers
within the civil service. Financial constraints due to low revenue generation by the MMAs and
inadequate cost recovery also made it difficult for them to operate and maintain the existing
systems effectively, much less carry out new infrastructure investments. As a result, MMAs
continued to depend on central government subsidies for some of their operations.

Previous Interventions: The Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP-2), as its
name suggests, was not the first project of its nature in Ghana. Concerns relating to poor urban
environmental situation underpinned the conception and implementation of a series of earlier
projects initiated by the GoG and partners, including the World Bank. These included: (i) the
Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP-1), (Cr. 2836-GH in the amount of SDR 47.8
million or US$71.0 million equivalent) which was implemented between 1996 and 2003; (ii) the
Urban II Project (Cr. 2157-GH), implemented between 1992 and 1999; (iii) the Priority Works
Project (PWP) (Cr 1874-GH in the amount of SDR 7.8 million or US$ 10.6 million equivalent)
implemented between 1988 and 1992; and (iv) the Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP)
(Cr. 1564-GH in the amount of SDR 7.8 million or US$ 10.6 million equivalent). All the above
projects addressed various elements of environmental sanitation and urban upgrading in low
income areas. The UESP-1 and Urban II Projects focused on Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi,
Tamale, and Tema - the same five cities as UESP-2, while the PWP focused on four of them,
excluding only Tamale, and the ADRP on only Accra. While the previous projects represented
important steps in addressing infrastructure, policy and institutional issues regarding
environmental sanitation in the five cities, the GoG acknowledged the fact that significant
problems remained, especially in the lower income areas.

Policy Context: The Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (2003-2005) (GPRS) outlined the need
for additional action to ameliorate the unfavorable environmental health conditions that
continued to prevail. The GPRS’s priorities focused on, inter-alia, supporting provision of
infrastructure, decentralization of responsibilities as a priority for good governance, and creation
of an enabling environment for private sector development. The Bank’s Country Assistance


10
  At appraisal, Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale had the status of Metropolitan Assemblies, while
Tema was a Municipal Assembly. However, during implementation Tema was also upgraded to a Metropolitan
Assembly. They are abbreviated AMA, KMA, STMA, TAMA, and TMA, respectively, and collectively as MMAs.


                                                                                                               2
Strategy (CAS) for Ghana for the 2000-2003 period was fully aligned with the GPRS, and it
identified the provision of urban infrastructure as one of the priority areas for increasing growth.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The UESP-2 was identified during implementation of UESP-1,
and was designed as a “Repeater Project? 11 to scale up investments and services initiated under
the latter to improve urban living conditions, as well as to provide opportunity for strengthen
institutional capacity to enhance the sustainability of services. The IDA Credit of SDR 41.6
million (US$62.0 million equivalent) for UESP-2 was approved by the Bank’s Board of
Directors on April 29, 2004, and became effective on October 27, 2004. The project was co-
financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), the French Development Agency (AFD), and
the Government of Ghana.

Implementing Agencies: Implementation arrangements under UESP-2 were different from
those of UESP-1, giving greater decentralization of project implementation responsibility to the
MMAs. The MLGRD, through the same Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) that managed
implementation of the UESP-1, was responsible for overall project co-ordination, supervision,
and monitoring. In addition, at the Local Government level, all components of the project, except
for Institutional Strengthening, were the responsibility of the respective MMAs, who were
responsible for all implementation aspects, including procurement, contract supervision, making
payments, and reporting. To assist them with these tasks, MLGRD was to provide technical
assistance, monitoring, and capacity building as needed during implementation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to improve urban living conditions in regard to
environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a
sustainable fashion, with special emphasis on the poor 12. The key development indicator was:
Reduction in number of residents of the communities in the project complaining about refuse
accumulations and flooding.

The intermediate objectives of the project were to: (a) Reduce the frequency, severity, and
duration of flooding in low-lying areas; (b) Increase the accessibility for low and middle-income
residents and school children to adequate latrines; (c) Increase the amount of refuse collected and
disposed of in an environmentally sustainable manner; (d) Increase vehicular access and reduce
flooding, erosion, and dust in low-income communities; (e) Enable central and local government
agencies to more effectively fulfill their mandate regarding the project objectives, especially the
Waste Management Departments (WMDs).




11
   According to Bank guidance documents, “Repeater Projects? are defined as projects whose basic design and
effectiveness have been proven, and which a Borrower proposes to augment and scale up.

12
   The PDO as stated in the PAD was basically identical to that in the legal agreements, except that the latter
specified the five cities where the project was to be implemented.


                                                                                                                  3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and indicators were not formally revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target groups of beneficiaries for each component identified in the PAD and
captured in the PDO were the following.
(a) The main target group for the Drainage Component primarily comprised the urban
population in the five towns, living and/or working in low-lying areas, which were subject to
frequent flooding. These areas were expected to experience tangible improvements in flood
alleviation and control.

(b) The main target groups for the Sanitation Component comprised three main groups: (i) the
population living in low-income neighborhoods without household latrines; (ii) users of sanitary
facilities in public places such as markets and lorry parks where public toilet facilities were
constructed; and (iii) school children and teachers, who would benefit from new school
sanitation facilities. Envisaged outcomes to these beneficiaries included greater convenience to
users, as well as health outcomes such as reduced incidence of diarrheal diseases, including
cholera as a result of improvements in hygiene behavior.

(c) The main target group for the Solid Waste Management Component comprised residents of
the five MMAs, who would directly experience improvements in the quality of solid waste
collection and disposal services, as well as those residing or working near the existing refuse
dumps who would benefit from better environmental conditions, reduced noxious odors and
aesthetic inconveniences, and lower risks to public health.

(d) The main target group for the Community Infrastructure Upgrading Component was the
population living and/or working in select low-income communities, who were expected to
benefit in terms of improved living conditions such as: reduced flooding, erosion, and dust;
better access to high-density neighborhoods that had been difficult or impossible to access with a
motor vehicle; better neighborhood safety at night; fewer water pipe breakages and more
registered water consumers; and improved sanitation.

(e) Finally, the main target group for the Institutional Strengthening Component was the
administration (Assembly staff) of the five MMAs, particularly the Waste Management
Departments and the Environmental Health Departments (EHD), who were to benefit from
capacity building efforts to more effectively and efficiently fulfill their responsibilities in regard
to environmental sanitation in the long-term with their own resources. Beneficiaries were
expected to also include other units in the MMAs, such as the Finance and Planning departments
and the Environmental Sanitation Sub-committee of the Assemblies; as well as MLGRD and
other stakeholders such as Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and the private sector.




                                                                                                    4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had five components:
Component 1 - Storm Drainage (US$16.5 million base cost): This component comprised
lining of primary and secondary drains, construction of small bridges, and erosion control in all
five MAs.
Component 2 - Sanitation (US$7.8 million base cost): This component had the following
subcomponents: (a) construction of household latrines and establishment of a domestic latrine
delivery program; (b) rehabilitation and construction of public latrines in public places; (c)
rehabilitation and construction of school latrines combined with hygiene education and the
provision of water supply where needed; (d) rehabilitation or construction of septage treatment
facilities; and (e) improved sewerage management in Tema.
Component 3 - Solid Waste Management (US$25.7 million base cost): This component had
the following subcomponents: (a) construction of new sanitary landfills for Accra and Tema, and
the completion of the one in Sekondi-Takoradi; (b) equipment for sanitary landfills; (c) closure,
and rehabilitation of existing refuse dumps; (d) operation of sanitary landfills, preceded by the
improved operation of some; (e) private solid waste collection; and (f) supply of household bins,
skips and skip pads.
Component 4 – Community Infrastructure Upgrading (US$8.5 million base cost): This
component comprised infrastructure upgrading in low-income communities, consisting mainly of
access roads, roadside drains, street lighting, water supply, and sanitation.
Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening (US$9.6 million base cost, financed by the
Norwegian Development Fund (NDF)). This component had several subcomponents: (a)
technical assistance and training, (b) capacity building in MLGRD and other central agencies, (c)
capacity building in MAs, (d) malaria vector control and HIV/AIDS prevention, (e) project-wide
monitoring, (f) reconditioning of waste management equipment, (g) house numbering, and (h) a
communications strategy.
The project also included Project Management (US$1.1 million base cost), the refunding of
the PPF (US$0.6 million), and physical and price contingencies, which initially constituted the
Performance-Based Fund 13 (US$11.1 million), adding up to a total project cost of US$ 80.9
million. The Performance-Based Fund would be used to make allocations to the MAs for
additional activities within the project objectives according to their achievement of the MA
Performance Criteria contained in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and specified in the
Grant Agreement. The MA’s performance would be evaluated annually during the joint
implementation review of the Steering Committee and IDA. Expenditures for project
implementation up to a total of SDR 4.0 million incurred in the period between May 1, 2003 and
the signature of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were eligible for retroactive
financing from the Credit.


13
   The Performance-Based Fund was to initially be made up of physical and price contingencies, amounting to
13.7% of the total project cost. It was to be enlarged in the course of implementation through possible contributions
from NDF and AFD and the transfer of funds that remained uncommitted at the time of the Mid-Term Review.
Funds were later reallocated to cover overruns on specific activities.


                                                                                                                   5
1.6 Revised Components

The project’s components were not formally revised. The scope and/or scale of certain sub-
components was however revised, dropping two key activities: (i) first, the activity concerning
rehabilitation and expansion of the Achimota Septage treatment facility for Accra, originally
envisaged under the Sanitation Component, was dropped during implementation following a
decision by then Mayor of Accra to do so, primarily because of the site’s proximity to a new bus
terminal for the city – incidentally financed by the Bank as well; (ii) second, the activity on
construction of the Kwabenya Sanitary Landfill facility for Greater Accra, originally envisaged
under the Solid Waste component, which was dropped due to strong public opposition to the
location of the site.

1.7 Other significant changes

Project Restructuring: The project underwent several other changes, facilitated through three
formal restructurings, accordingly followed by amendment of project legal documents during
implementation. These are summarized below.

a)         Extensions of the project closing date: The project closing date was extended by a total of
           thirty months. The first 14 restructuring, approved on June 3, 2010, involved an extension
           of the project closing date by eighteen months, from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011
           to allow for completion of outstanding activities that had been delayed. These were:
           construction of sanitary landfills in Tema and Sekondi; completion of the Environmental
           Assessment (EA) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for Kwabenya landfill in Accra;
           provision of solid waste collection services in the five participating cities; construction of
           the Tema drains; and rehabilitation of dumpsites at Essipon and Kojokrom in Sekondi,
           and Oblogo and Mallam in Accra.

           The second restructuring, approved on December 5, 2011, involved a further extension of
           the closing date by five months from December 31, 2011 to May 31, 2012, to allow
           additional time for completion of works in Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Kumasi,
           delayed as a result of unusual rainfall in southern Ghana. Affected works involved:
           construction of sanitary landfills in Tema and Sekondi-Takoradi; construction of the
           Tema storm drains; and rehabilitation of the septage treatment plant in the same town.

           The third restructuring approved on December 18, 2012, involved extension of the
           closing date by an additional seven months from May 31, 2012 to December 31, 2012. It
           was requested by the GoG to allow additional time for the Government to process
           compensation payments to Project Affected People (PAP), mainly owners of unfinished
           structures that were expropriated by the GoG for the proposed Kwabenya sanitary landfill
           that was to have been financed through the project. Although the construction of this
           landfill was abandoned, there is an obligation under the DCA to compensate affected
           people in accordance with the Bank’s Safeguards policy.


14
     The official letter notifying the Borrower of the Bank’s approval for the amendment was dated June 3, 2010.


                                                                                                                   6
b)     Reallocation of Credit proceeds among disbursement categories: Three requests by the
       GoG for reallocation of funds among disbursement categories were approved by the
       Bank, and effected through the mentioned project restructurings. The first two requests,
       approved in June 2010 and December 2011 enabled reallocation of funds from activities
       that had funds in excess of the expected needs to cover overruns on other activities,
       allowing for completion of several outstanding activities, including the sanitary landfills
       in Tema and Sekondi-Takoradi, the Tema storm drains and septage treatment plant;
       procurement of solid waste management equipment in the five participating cities; and
       closure of waste dumpsites in Sekondi-Takoradi and Accra. The third request, approved
       on December 18, 2012 together with an amendment to the Credit, introduced a new
       Category – Compensation Payments to Project Affected Persons. The amendment
       allowed for payment from the Credit proceeds for compensation payments to affected
       persons under the Kwabenya landfill Plan for compensation and the Resettlement Action
       Plan (RAP). A table summarizing the reallocations is given at the end of Annex 2


2.     Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The ICR rates the project’s QAE Moderately Unsatisfactory
on balance, considering the quality of design and preparation activities, which although sound in
many respects, did have some major shortcomings that affected overall implementation. The
project design benefitted from rigorous independent scrutiny by a Regional Review Panel, in
accordance with OPCS Guidelines (“Building on Success: More Efficient Processing of
Repeater Projects?), dated March 17, 2003, to assess its suitability as a “Repeater Project? to
UESP-1. The Review Panel endorsed the overall design approach, subject to the team adequately
addressing and incorporating concerns related to three main issues: (i) ensuring sustainability;
(ii) risks, such as delays or lack of action by MMAs and other entities; (iii) institutional capacity
(for example, of the Waste Management Departments); (iv) the need for updating the Sector
Policy underlying UESP-1; and (v) compliance with fiduciary and safeguards requirements.

The background analysis was sound, and project design had several strengths. The PAD assessed
the fundamental urban environmental sanitation challenges prevailing in Ghana at the time of
appraisal, highlighting the opportunity afforded by the project to address priority issues building
upon achievements from previous projects. The PDO was clear and responsive to Ghana’s
development priorities defined through the National Environmental Sanitation Policy established
in 1999 and the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS, 2002-2004), as well as the Bank’s
CAS. The strategic choice to focus on the five largest cities reflected development priorities, and
was designed to scale up the geographic scale and impact of the prior operations. The design
considered key lessons from the UESP-1, including the comments of the Review Panel, and
global experience in addressing urban environmental sanitation issues. Investment components
were technically sound and selected in line with principles of cost-effectiveness.

The ICR however notes significant shortcomings in several respects. The first shortcoming
relates to concerns in respect to design of the project M&E framework, discussed in more detail

                                                                                                   7
under Section 2.3. The second relates to shortcomings in the PAD’s assessment of some critical
risks and subsequent identification of mitigation measures during preparation, indicating
inadequate responsiveness to the Review Panel’s recommendations in this regard. Mitigation
measures for some risks identified as ‘High’ or ‘Substantial’ were inadequate, and substantial
risks such as those relating to investment sustainability appear to have been under-rated. The
ICR considers that the overall risk rating should have been at least ‘Substantial’. The third relates
to shortcomings in the handling the consultation process in respect to the Kwabenya landfill,
which faced local opposition right from the outset. Although several attempts were made by
government and project staff to initiate consultations, the local communities were apparently
unwilling to avail themselves to discuss the issue with project staff, much less come to a
mutually agreeable conclusion. This issue should have been elevated and brought to the attention
of higher authorities at the time, to identify appropriate alternatives, including the ‘no go’ option.
The final shortcoming was a lack of readiness in respect to implementation of some activities,
due to a failure during project preparation to complete the designs for the first year of
implementation in a timely manner. This issue contributed to overall implementation delays.

A QAE Assessment was conducted for the project by an independent Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) Panel in 2005. The Panel judged the project’s QAE as Unsatisfactory overall. While the
QAG report noted the project’s strengths in respect to consistency of the objectives with
Government development priorities, and the shift of implementation responsibilities to MMAs in
line with Government Decentralization policy, it raised concerns regarding: (a) superficial
treatment of sustainability issues, especially given the UESP-1 experience; (b) weaknesses in the
implementation arrangements, linked to existing MMA capacity to execute the project; (c)
weaknesses in assessment of risks and mitigation measures; and (d) a lack of readiness for
implementation at Board approval. The QAG Assessment further observed that while the Review
Panel that approved the project for processing as a “Repeater? made sound recommendations in
respect to sustainability and safeguards, they were not adequately addressed in the project design.
While the ICR concurs with the validity of the mentioned concerns, and corroborates the opinion
that these aspects had shortcomings, it considers the QAG assessment as having been somewhat
harsh, hence the MU rating.

2.2 Implementation

There were a number of factors during implementation that ultimately affected project
implementation and outcomes. Key issues are outlined below.

a) Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Issues: Difficulties related to
land acquisition were a major concern during implementation, especially for the more
environmentally sensitive and potentially controversial elements such as landfills and waste
treatment facilities. Land tenure in Ghana is based on a complex system governed by a
combination of customary and statutory law. Nearly three quarters of all undeveloped land in
Ghana is held through customary law by individuals, families, clans, or tribes, in some cases
leased to other parties. Safeguards issues relating to the siting of the Kwabenya landfill in
particular were a predominant concern throughout the project’s lifetime, and efforts to address
them, including preparation of a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), constituted a
significant proportion of the project team’s supervision activity and resulted in long
implementation delays for the activity. During the project’s Mid-term-Review (MTR), it became
                                                                                                    8
obvious that it was unlikely that the landfill construction would be completed by the project
closing date. A decision was ultimately made to cancel the landfill construction and reallocate
the financing to other activities. It is worth noting that the landfill in question was one of three
landfills to be constructed under the solid waste component. Incidentally, there were no major
issues with the other two landfills, in Tema, and Sekondi-Takoradi.

b) Weaknesses in Implementation Capacity at MA Level: Decentralization of project
activities from the MLGRD to the MMA level was not immediately matched by sufficient
financial management and operational capacity in some of the participating MMAs. This
contributed to the slow start of certain activities, especially the Drainage Component.

c) Seasonal Constraints: Prolonged rainy seasons in Southern Ghana slowed down construction
progress for a number of activities, leading to requests by the GoG for additional time to
complete the activities. Activities that were affected were highlighted earlier under Section 1.7.
The seasonal patterns appear to have been an anomaly that could not have been reasonably
anticipated and built into implementation scheduling.

d) Price Escalations: Sub-project costs were affected by price escalations during
implementation, leading to budget overruns for certain activities. In 2006 a decision was made
to address some of the overruns by tapping into the Performance-Based Fund, and later on, as
earlier discussed, some funds were reallocated among Disbursement Categories as part of
restructuring to address this issue.

e) Delays in Release of Counterpart Funds: Delays in release of counterpart funds at both
Government and MMA levels affected staff morale and overall project implementation progress
in some MAs. A case in point was in the Sekondi-Takoradi MA, where issues with release of
counterpart funds affected operating costs, including the costs of running project offices.

f) Slow Start of Institutional Strengthening Component: The Institutional Strengthening
Component, which was co-financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) experienced a slow
implementation start. Identification and mobilization of suitable international consultants was
delayed due to a high turnover of international consultants especially at the beginning of
implementation. Because of the slow start, many of the institutional strengthening activities,
including training, were delivered in a short space of time, which according to the BA findings
affected the effectiveness and uptake of learning and skills by MA staff and other beneficiaries.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

Rating: Unsatisfactory. Design of the project’s Results Framework and the indicators identified
for monitoring progress towards achievement of the PDO as laid out in the PAD, is rated
Unsatisfactory, due to the following shortcomings; (a) the absence of baseline data in the Results
Framework presented in the PAD at approval; (b) weaknesses in the definition of some
indicators, in terms of ease of data collection or completeness - for example, the choice of
indicator for measuring PDO results, focused on beneficiary complaints regarding only two of
the four elements of environmental sanitation addressed by the project, refuse collection and
                                                                                                  9
flooding. The rationale for focusing on only these two elements was unclear; and (c) the failure
to disaggregate the results by project area and not just by infrastructure element, to allow for an
assessment of the achievement of objectives in each city.

M&E Implementation and Utilization

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. While most aspects of M&E in relation to project inputs
and outputs, were routinely conducted by the PCU and MMAs in compliance with Bank
requirements, allowing key issues to be identified and addressed, M&E utilization and
implementation is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) due to major shortcomings in respect to
results measurement, specifically in monitoring of project outcome data and ensuring timely
completion of the BAs, as the key methodology for outcome measurement. Completion of the
final BA, which was conducted in a resource constrained environment after the project closed,
was significantly delayed. In retrospect, the project should have specifically included the BAs as
deliverables in the procurement plan and allocated adequate resources for them to be conducted
prior to closing. An opportunity was also missed during implementation to restructure the
Results Framework.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The project triggered two Bank Safeguards Policies: (a) OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment (EA); and (b) OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. Overall
safeguards compliance under the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory on balance, considering
handling of safeguards issues for all project activities during the preparation and implementation
phases of the project. While there were significant shortcomings in the handling of certain
activities, particularly the Kwabenya landfill, the ICR notes that safeguards for most of the other
activities were managed in a satisfactory manner with minor shortcomings. Given the impact
however of issues surrounding Kwabenya, the ICR discusses key elements of the case below.

The Kwabenya Sanitary Landfill Case: Selection of the Kwabenya site was based on a 1993
Urban Strategy for Accra financed by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which
ranked the suitability of the site highest among five alternative sites. There was an earlier effort
in 1999/2000 by the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID) to
finance construction of a landfill at the proposed site. DFID carried out an EA and financed an
access road and a drainage culvert to the area as part of preliminary activities towards this effort.
The Agency however eventually abandoned the construction of the landfill due to failure to reach
a mutually acceptable resolution of land right claims with local owners and leaseholders, even
though the area was virtually unoccupied at the time. After construction of the access road,
people rapidly moved into the area and/or begun to work within proximity of the site, a situation
that considerably changed the baseline conditions since the DFID EA. The Project’s 2003
Environmental and Social Assessment (ESIA) for the landfill used the DFID EA as a basis,
which in retrospect was somewhat misleading given the changing conditions on the ground.

The project was rated as a Category A due to the landfill activities, and the Review Panel for the
“Repeater Project? recommended that it be processed as a new project. The PAD noted that prior
to appraisal, “the determined opposition of a group of affected people at Kwabenya to further
consultations on compensation and resettlement is jeopardizing the preparation for the
                                                                                                  10
construction and poses the risk that the landfill could not be located at this site?. While this
statement alluded to a breakdown in the consultation process that presaged future challenges
with implementing this activity, there is little evidence of any clear measures to assess the
reasons for DFID’s failure in order to mitigate the risk, including consideration of suitable
alternatives, beyond the general statement that policy on Involuntary Resettlement would be
followed, including preparation of a RAP which would be closely supervised by the Bank.

The Inspection 15: During implementation, the PAPs, organized under the so-called Agyemankata
Community16, requested an Inspection through the Accra-based Centre on Housing Rights and
Eviction (COHRE), on the project’s handling of their concerns with the World Bank’s Inspection
Panel. Key concerns pertained to the landfill construction resulting in involuntary displacement
of much of the Community, and not being operated and maintained in a satisfactory manner,
potentially threatening the health and wellbeing of surrounding communities. The requesters
further alleged that the Bank had failed to comply with its policy on Involuntary Resettlement
because it had not ensured meaningful consultation with affected and displaced people, and not
ensured that they were informed about their options and rights and offered choices and feasible
alternatives. They contended that decisions taken by the local authority, without adequate
consultation and disclosure of information demonstrated a lack of commitment to implementing
a resettlement instrument that met Bank policy. The allegations seemed to be corroborated by the
QAE Assessment which was critical of the submitted RPF, characterizing it as “somewhat
disorganized, unfocused, vague and repetitive, and insufficiently operational?, and stated that
“the team appears to have underestimated the grounds of remaining objections? in the
Kwabenya area.

An independent investigation on the matter was conducted by the Inspection Panel in March
2009. A recurring theme in the investigation was the difficulties encountered in designing and
implementing a project when positions amongst project stakeholders have hardened, trust has
been lost, and there is an impasse. The Inspection Panel observed that the project did not take all
the required measures to address safeguard issues arising in the project, contrary to the Repeater
Project Review Panel’s advice in 2003. The Inspection Panel determined that the Bank did not
comply with several provisions of Bank policies on EA, Involuntary resettlement, and Project
Supervision. These included provisions related to analysis of alternative sites for a landfill,
analysis of impacts in the area of influence of the project, environmental management planning,
and resettlement planning. The ICR noted that project supervision reporting did not adequately
flag the critical social and environmental safeguards issues pertaining to Kwabenya to prompt
sufficient response in terms of intensified supervision or other measures until the MTR, after the
request for inspection.


15
  The Inspection Panel was created in September 1993 by the World Bank’s Board of Directors to serve as an
independent mechanism to ensure accountability in Bank operations with respect to its policies and procedures. The
Panel is an instrument for groups of two or more private citizens who believe that they or their interests have been or
could be harmed by Bank financed activities to present their concerns through a Request for Inspection.

16
   The Agyemankata Community represented a community of interest, rather than a geographical community,
representing the interests of the Kwabenya residents and land leasers.


                                                                                                                    11
After the Request for Inspection, several remedial actions were initiated by the Bank. These
included the preparation of an updated EIA and RAP. The Bank also strengthened its supervision
team, fielding more senior Safeguards staff to the project to help address ongoing concerns. A
decision was eventually made by the GoG at the MTR in October 2010, to abandon the
development and reallocate the funds intended for the landfill to ongoing activities that were
experiencing budget overruns, on the understanding that additional funds would be requested by
the Government at a later date if agreed.

Compensation Arrangements and Current Status: Although the landfill construction was
abandoned, there is a continuing obligation under the Development Credit Agreement, to
conclude the process and compensate affected people in accordance with Bank policy. During
the Spring Meetings in April 2012, the GoG requested Bank approval to use Credit proceeds to
pay compensation for the 76 inhabited structures identified in the draft RAP, while committing
to pay for the land from their own funds. Bank Management authorized the use of Credit
proceeds to pay for the compensation, and granted a 7 month extension of the closing date
(through December 31, 2012) in order to allow for the appropriate processing of payments. All
payments were expected to be completed prior to the end of four month grace period after the
Credit closing date. However, despite efforts by GoG and AMA, payment of compensation was
not completed by the said date. Some reasons for this were: (a) the fact that some PAP’s refuse
compensation, apparently because they hope to hold onto the land; and (b) some PAP’s claim
that offered compensation does not reflect inflation and current market values. Although the site
was eventually not used for the Bank financed project, resettlement obligations survive the
closing of the project, as do Bank supervision obligations. The Bank and GoG were yet to agree
on a final way forward in respect to this matter at the time the ICR was prepared.

Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: The ICR rates Financial Management (FM) compliance under
the project Moderately Satisfactory, considering overall compliance with Bank policy and
procedural requirements during project preparation and implementation as having been
conducted in a satisfactory manner with moderate shortcomings. An FM Assessment was
conducted for the MLGRD and the five participating MAs as part of project preparation.
Responsibility for FM lay with the MLGRD’s Head of Accounts and the Municipal Finance
officers of the MMAs, whose capacities were assessed to be generally adequate to perform
required tasks. The assessment however determined that certain actions needed to be undertaken
in terms of streamlining procedures and staff training in disbursement procedures to fully meet
the Bank’s FM requirements. A Financial Procedure Manual for the MAs was prepared to ensure
that uniform procedures were used for financial transactions, and the project included training in
financial management aspects.

Financial Management was generally satisfactory through the project implementation period,
with moderate shortcomings. Quarterly financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely
manner, and annual audit reports of the project accounts by independent external auditors raised
no significant issues. Shortcomings primarily involved, lack of regular updating of the

                                                                                               12
Commitment Schedule, and delays in recovering advances made to the MAs. The final ISR
therefore rated the project’s FM rating Moderately Satisfactory.

Procurement

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Implementation of the Procurement function under the project
is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on its overall compliance with relevant Bank and country
procedures during project preparation and implementation, with moderate shortcomings. A
Procurement Capacity Assessment for the project was conducted as part of preparation, and the
overall procurement risk in regard to the project was rated Average, which would be considered
‘Moderate’ under current risk rating procedures. Procurement responsibilities for the
Institutional Strengthening component and overall backstopping of the MAs lay with the PCU
within MLGRD, which was experienced with implementation of Bank projects. The MAs were
responsible for procurement of activities in their respective sub-components. Shortcomings in
respect to procurement noted during implementation and through the BA included difficulties in
selection of high quality contractors and suppliers, which led to issues such as procurement
delays, procurement of poor quality equipment, and in the case of the NDF component, failure to
access the fund for certain activities.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Most project financed investments and services are operational. While the project has tried to
ensure that appropriate technical, institutional, and financial provisions are in place to
sustainably operate most of them, ensuring the long-term sustainability of some elements will
require fulfillment of certain conditions and recommendations discussed below.

Operation of Drainage Facilities: Most drains dredged or constructed under the project are
functional and there has been a notable reduction in flooding and associated impacts in the
participating cities. However, ensuring the long-term sustainability of investments to avoid a
recurrence of flooding and other impacts will call for a concerted effort and commitment by all
the MMAs to provide continued support and allocate adequate resources to the DMUs
established to manage the drains at the MMA level. Initial findings from the BA indicate that
O&M of the drainage facilities is being better managed in some MAs, such as Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi, and Tamale, than in others. The new project in Accra (see below) will provide
opportunity for further strengthening of the AMA to manage these facilities.

Solid Waste Management Operations: There has been an overall improvement in management
of solid wastes in the participating towns and services are generally being delivered effectively.
Overall however, cost recovery has been skewed more towards the higher income parts of the
cities where people are able to pay for services. Recovery of waste collection and disposal costs
in low income areas has been much more difficult, requiring subsidies from the MMAs, which
are themselves often budget constrained. The project design had allowed for provision of
financial support on a declining basis during implementation, for items such as O&M of sanitary
landfills and private solid waste collection, where UESP-1 experience had indicated difficulty in
financing O&M from internally generated revenues. Sustaining adequate waste collection and
disposal services without this financial support is difficult, and ensuring service delivery will
require continued support through MMAs at least for the short- to medium-term. It is important
                                                                                               13
to note that for infrastructure investments and services targeting the poor, it is not uncommon to
continue to require some form of cross-subsidy among beneficiary groups and/or continued
support from MAs from revenues other than direct user fees.

Operation of Sanitation Facilities: While most sanitation facilities are generally functional at
the time of the ICR, emerging evidence on the likelihood for their long-term sustainability varies,
with household, public, and most school toilets likely to be sustainable, while a few school
facilities will require greater efforts to operate sustainably. Household latrines, which were co-
financed by, and are being operated and maintained by owners, are likely to continue to operate
in a sustainable manner. Most public latrines were also strategically located in high density
commercial areas such as markets and they are likely to be operated and maintained in a
sustainable manner, financed through user charges, with MMA oversight and/or private sector
involvement. The experience with school facilities has however been mixed. While facilities in
most schools are being operated and maintained in a satisfactory manner, facilities were
observed to be in a poor state of repair or otherwise non-functional in a few. Key reasons for the
latter include: vandalism or improper usage, inadequate maintenance, and unreliable water
supply in water based facilities. Ensuring the sustainability of school toilet facilities will require
three key interventions: (a) continued awareness raising and education of students and school
personnel in the proper use and maintenance of facilities; (b) allocation or collection of adequate
resources for toilet O&M in each beneficiary school, including provision of reliable water supply
and soap; and (c) establishment of a system of ensuring that school authorities are held
accountable for facilities provided.

Community Infrastructure Upgrading: Interventions in community upgrading are operational
and have had a very positive social, economic, and environmental impact on the targeted low
income communities. Maintenance of the infrastructure is the responsibility of the respective
MMAs and the communities. In light of the identified resource constraints to some MMAs, the
likelihood of sustainability of investments would be enhanced through greater direct community
involvement in maintenance of facilities, as the primary beneficiaries.

Follow-on Bank Operation: In response to continued need for addressing urban environmental
sanitation and water supply needs in the Greater Accra Metropolitan area (GAMA), the Bank’s
Board recently approved a follow-on Greater Accra Sanitation and Water Project (GASWP) in
the amount of SDR 100.1 million (US$150 million equivalent). The objective of the GASWP is
to increase access to safe water and improved sanitation to people in the GAMA, with emphasis
on low income communities, and to improve planning, implementation and management of
environmental sanitation in the GAMA. This project builds upon lessons learned from the UESP-
2 and will serve as an important opportunity to advance the impact on environmental sanitation,
especially in the Greater Accra area, and more importantly to address the sustainability questions
regarding investments and services in the city, as well as for other cities which could benefit
from some of the broader institutional strengthening activities.




                                                                                                   14
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High. The PDO remains highly relevant to Ghana’s development priorities and the
Bank’s Assistance Strategy. Ghana’s Environmental Sanitation Policy (ESP), revised 17 in 2010
recognizes environmental sanitation as one of the most powerful drivers of human development.
Environmental sanitation is also an important consideration in Ghana’s Medium Term
Development Policy Framework (MTDPF, 2010-2013) and its predecessor the Ghana Growth
and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) (2006-2009). The Development Policy Framework is
informed by the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The PDO is also consistent with
thematic pillars of the Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda (GSGDA, 2010-2013),
focusing on: (i) infrastructure and human settlements development; and (ii) transparent and
accountable governance, both of which were addressed by the project. Finally, the project is
consistent with the Bank’s priorities, expressed in its CPS for 2013-2016, whose fourth pillar
focuses on provision of strategic infrastructure, including access to improved water supply,
sanitation, and urban services.

3.1.2      Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial. Relevance of project design and implementation of the project is
considered Substantial, recognizing its strengths in responding to relevant development priorities
and general good practice in respect to technical, institutional, and economic considerations,
while noting some shortcomings in design, especially M&E, as discussed under QAE sections
above. Project design in respect to the scope of activities was adjusted during implementation to
reflect changes in Government priorities. Design of project implementation arrangements,
involving delegation of responsibility for implementation from Central Government to the
respective MAs with MLGRD oversight remains consistent with the Government’s policy on
decentralization and is considered best practice for enhancing local ownership and sustainability
of the institutional capacity implement such programs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

This section addresses the efficacy of achievement of the PDO by assessing the aggregate of
outcomes against end-of-project targets identified in the Results Framework where available, and
from analysis of the extent to which the project achieved the various elements of the PDO as
confirmed through the Beneficiary Assessment. The ICR goes on to consider the element of
sustainability as a key component of the PDO, by addressing the likelihood of the achieved
outcomes being sustainable in the long term. Emphasis on the poor was implicitly built into the
project design by specifically targeting lower income areas as the primary micro project areas in
each MMA.




17
     The original ESP was prepared in 1999.


                                                                                               15
Achievement of PDO – Improved urban living conditions in regard to environmental
health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a sustainable
manner with special emphasis on the poor. Key Outcome Indicator: Reduction in the number
of residents of the communities in the project areas complaining about refuse accumulations and
flooding

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory 18 . The project achieved its overall development objective of
improving urban living conditions in regard to environmental health, sanitation, drainage,
vehicular access, and solid waste management in the project areas in a satisfactory manner, with
moderate shortcomings on balance, mostly linked to concerns in respect to the long-term
sustainability of some investments and outcomes under some components. There was a 38.8 19
percent reduction in residents interviewed through the BA complaining about issues with refuse
collection after the project, exceeding the targeted 15 percent in respect to the defined PDO
indicator. Respondents also confirmed that overall the project has contributed to a significant
reduction in flooding. A detailed analysis with respect to achievement of the individual IOs is
presented below, and considered an integral part of assessing achievement of the PDO.

Achievement of Intermediate Objective (IO) 1 - Reduced frequency, severity, and duration
of flooding in low lying areas. Outcome indicator: Percent of people living or working near the
newly lined drains who report reduced flooding

IO Achieved: This IO is considered to have been fully achieved, with moderate shortcomings
linked to sustainability of O&M of drainage investments in some MMAs. The ICR infers from
anecdotal evidence provided in project documents and confirmed in the BA, that the project has
resulted in improved urban living conditions in regard to improved drainage, including a
reduction in the frequency, severity, and duration of floods. Additional associated outcomes
include reduced risk of loss of life and property, reduced safety and public health hazards, and
less disruption of communications due to improved accessibility. The reduction in flooding and
improvements in the drainage network has also contributed to improved living conditions of
residents by reducing the occurrence of stagnant water that acts as breeding ground for disease
vectors such as mosquitoes which cause Malaria.

Outputs: The project, through its Drainage component was able finance the realignment,
dredging, and lining of 16.8 km of primary and secondary storm drains in Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi/Takoradi, and Tema, exceeding the 16.7 km envisaged during appraisal. It also financed
erosion control measures and construction of small bridges in Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi and
Tema, all of which contributed to the mentioned impacts. (See photographs in Annex 2).



18
  Given the multi-pronged nature of the PDO, this rating is based on the aggregate of the ICR’s assessment of
achievement of the project development objective and intermediate objectives, as reflected through the KOI, the IOs,
and other available data.

19
  The explanation for assessment of this estimate is given in footnote linked to the Results Framework in the
datasheet.


                                                                                                                16
Sustainability: While the Drainage component fully achieved its intended outcomes in the short-
to medium-term, the sustainability of investments will depend on the MMAs ability to maintain
the operations of the DMAs through adequate support and funding, and the extent to which
communities are sensitized and motivated to properly maintain the drainage channels and avoid
improper usage such as refuse dumping.

Achievement of Intermediate Outcome 2 - Increased accessibility for low and middle-
income residents and school children to adequate latrines. Outcome Indicator: Additional
number of people and school children gaining access to satisfactory latrines

IO Substantially Achieved: This IO is considered to have been substantially achieved, with
moderate shortcomings linked to sustainability of O&M of sanitation investments in some
schools. The project resulted in increased accessibility of an estimated 80 percent of low and
middle income residents and school children in the beneficiary communities to adequate latrines.
Access to improved sanitation is expected to bestow benefits to beneficiaries on many levels,
including advantages for public health, livelihoods and dignity-advantages. The higher level
public health, environmental, social and economic benefits of access to improved sanitation,
though not explicitly measured as part of project monitoring, are nonetheless considered integral
to the project, and the project is expected to have contributed to their achievement among the
beneficiary communities. Furthermore, in the communities where project activities have taken
place, the residents demonstrated knowledge of hygiene practices, and linkages between
sanitation, water and disease, increasing their likelihood of attaining the full health benefits of
investments. Further training and education activities are nonetheless needed to continue
reinforcing the hygiene messages that were communicated to community members.

Table 3.2 Access to latrines before and after the project

Response         Household latrines                  Public latrines     School Latrine
               Before           After               Before       After   Before           After
               %                %                    %            %      %                %
Yes            34.2             78.8                86.7         100     61.3             94.2
No             65.8             21.3                13.3         0       38.8             5.8
Total          100              100                 100          100     100              100
Source: Beneficiary Assessment, May 2013
Outputs: Based on the end of project results indicators, 1,412 toilet seats were completed overall,
representing an achievement of about 85 percent of the targeted 1,670. These included: 8501
household latrines; 36 public facilities comprising a total of 674 seats; and 157 toilet facilities
constructed in schools 20 identified by the respective MAs as being in the most need in the five
project cities. Interestingly, the total number of persons reduced because there was a much
higher demand for household rather than public latrines than had been envisaged, ultimately
leading to the project exceeding the targeted number of household latrines while reducing the


20
     School facilities typically had 10-12 seats.


                                                                                                  17
number of public latrines constructed, but providing access to fewer people. Provision of
household latrines however contributed directly to Ghana’s MDGs with respect to Access to
improved sanitation. The success of the household latrine component in exceeding the physical
targets can be attributed in large part to the strategy adopted in marketing and administering the
scheme through the use of “Management Intermediaries (MIs)?, who basically comprised local
artisans.

Sustainability: While household and public latrines are likely to continue operating in a
sustainable manner, some school facilities, as noted under Section 2.5 above, will require
continued support in terms of education and awareness raising in proper operations and
maintenance, and enforcement of a system of ensuring adequate resource allocation for operation
and maintenance, including for provision of sustainable water supply and soap where necessary.

Achievement of Intermediate Outcome 3 - Increased amount of refuse collected and
disposed of in an environmentally sustainable manner. Outcome Indicator: Number of
project towns in which the total MSW collected increased by at least 5% per year

IO Fully Achieved: This IO is considered to have been fully achieved, with moderate
shortcomings on balance, mostly linked to concerns in respect to the financial viability of
services to low-income areas and the long-term sustainability of waste disposal in Accra. The
project has contributed to improvements in the collection and disposal of refuse in an
environmentally sustainable manner in all project cities. The closure and rehabilitation of
existing refuse dumps in Accra, Takoradi, and Kumasi has greatly improved the environmental
and aesthetic conditions in the surrounding areas, and even contributed to additional benefits
such as reclamation of the land over rehabilitated dumpsites for other uses. In Kumasi for
instance, the rehabilitated dumpsite is being put to use by surrounding communities as a
community sports ground (see photographs in Annex 2). Sanitary landfills in Tema and Sekondi-
Takoradi completed through the project are allowing for environmentally sustainable disposal of
waste from those cities. Although the Kwabenya landfill was not constructed, some of the waste
from Accra is now being transported to the Tema landfill.

In addition, there was an overall improvement in collection of solid wastes at the household and
broader community levels, largely based on private sector involvement introduced during
implementation of UESP-1, with at least two thirds of respondents to the BA confirming that
waste collection services were available in their communities after the project. According to
project documents, all the MAs increased the volume of waste collected over the project
implementation period by at least five percent annually on average. Methods of waste disposal
among beneficiary communities have also improved substantially at the household and broader
MA levels as a result of the project, and fewer people are using unsanitary waste disposal
methods such as indiscriminate disposal in the bush or in water logged areas, disposal in
unsanitary dumps, burying, or burning, which impact the environment negatively.

Outputs: Most of the envisaged outputs under this component, with the exception of the
Kwabenya landfill, were completed in a satisfactory manner. These included: (a) construction
and provision of equipment for a new sanitary landfill in Tema; (b) completion of construction
and provision of equipment for a partially complete landfill in Sekondi-Takoradi; (c) closure and

                                                                                               18
rehabilitation of existing refuse dumps in Accra, Takoradi, and Kumasi; and (d) the provision of
household bins, skips, and skip pads, which are assisting waste collection and disposal and
improving the overall urban environmental conditions.

Sustainability: While waste collection in higher income areas where people are willing and able
to pay for services are likely to remain sustainable on a direct cost-recovery basis from users,
services in lower income areas will continue to require support from the MMAs in the short-to-
medium term in order to maintain operations in an environmentally sustainable manner. It is also
imperative that a long-term solution for disposal of the capital city’s waste is identified as the use
of the Tema landfill will not be sustainable in the long-term.

Intermediate Outcome 4 - Increased vehicular access and reduced flooding, erosion and
dust in low-income communities. Outcome Indicator: Length of access roads to communities
surfaced, with roadside drains.

IO Fully Achieved. The project fully achieved its intermediate objective of improving urban
living conditions in regard to vehicular access, and reduced flooding, erosion, and dust in the
beneficiary low-income communities through various community infrastructure upgrading The
interventions have not only contributed to improved urban environmental conditions which have
a direct impact on overall public health and social wellbeing, but also to increased property
values and overall economic growth in the beneficiary communities. Beneficiaries confirmed
that project interventions have inadvertently resulted in provision of an all-weather reliability
road which will make possible smooth transportation all-year-round, as well as improved
hygiene and public health conditions, appreciation of land values, promotion of urban renewal
and appreciation of frontage properties, and improved access to basic services like water.
Additional outcomes confirmed through the BA included improvements in community and
neighborhood security through the provision of street lights and access roads to hitherto
inaccessible communities. Annex 2 provides some pictures illustrating the dramatic
improvement in some of the communities as a result of activities financed through this
component.

Key Outputs and Sustainability: Key outputs included; rehabilitation and resurfacing of 16.8 km
of roads; construction of roadside drains; and provision of security lighting in twelve
communities in the five MMAs. Long term sustainability of investments will require a combined
effort by the MMAs and communities to maintain the facilities.

Intermediate Outcome 5 – Central and Local Government agencies enabled to more
effectively fulfill their mandate regarding the project objectives, especially the Waste
Management Departments (WMDs). Outcome Indicator: Number of WMDs in which at least
60% of the serviceable waste management equipment is in operating condition

IO Substantially Achieved: This IO is considered to have been substantially achieved with
moderate shortcomings. The project, through implementation of the Institutional Strengthening
Component, was able to contribute to enhancement of central and local government capacity to
fulfill their respective roles in terms of managing various aspects of urban environmental
sanitation. Achievement of the relevant target focused on equipment provided through the

                                                                                                   19
project, including office equipment, computer hardware and software, vehicles since this
represented the majority of equipment available in the MAs. Most equipment supplied or
reconditioned through the project was found to be in operating condition at the end of the project,
and the target in respect to the number of WMDs in which at least 60 percent of serviceable
waste management equipment is in operating condition was met. A summary of achieved
outcomes is presented below.

Outputs: Capacity within the MMAs and other departments involved in environmental sanitation
management, such as the Ghana Health Service and the Ghana Education, has been strengthened
through training to manage various issues including: human resources, financial management
and accounting, billing and collection of revenues, legal and regulatory issues, public
communications, public health, and general operations aspects such as drain maintenance. The
MMA capacity has also been strengthened for management of information and monitoring
through design and installation of MIS software. Institutional capacity has also been
strengthened substantially through the equipment provided to the MMAs, including office
equipment and vehicles. MMAs however continue to rely heavily on central government
transfers to cover their operating expenses. A more detailed description of the achievements and
outputs under this component is presented in Annex 2.

Sustainability: While the mentioned activities represented an important step in equipping the
MAs to more effectively carry out their roles, the sustainability of the outcomes is still
compromised by exogenous factors such as: (a) the weak compensation and incentive structure
in the MAs to attract, motivate, and maintain highly qualified staff – an issue that would call for
civil service reforms beyond the control of the project; and (b) the inadequate revenue flow to the
MAs to fully cover operation and maintenance costs, which would call for reforms beyond the
scope of the project. It is also imperative that: (a) the MAs develop and enforce sound
maintenance practices for equipment; (b) training programs developed for staff on pertinent
issues such as drain maintenance, communication for behavior change, etc., are sustained; and
(c) Drainage Maintenance Units are maintained and/or strengthened for all MAs, with adequate
facilitation provided in terms of resources.

3.3 Efficiency

Cost-effectiveness rather than Cost-benefit analysis was used as a measure of efficiency at
appraisal because key project outputs were considered as not having market prices that could be
readily assessed, precluding measurement of benefits in monetary terms. The analysis at
appraisal focused on two sub-components: (a) storm drains, and (b) latrines in residential areas.
The stream of costs over the economic life of the investments was discounted to the present to
determine the least-cost solution. In selecting the best option, additional information on non-
quantifiable costs and benefits was considered. Based on availability of data, the ICR considered
cost-effectiveness of the same components. A detailed analysis is presented in Annex 3.

Storm Drains: During appraisal three alternatives were analyzed: (a) dredging to increase the
channel profile without lining; (b) dredging and lining with a trapezoidal profile; and (c)
dredging and lining with a rectangular profile. Common assumptions for all 3 designs were an
economic life of 15 years and a drain design that would prevent floods of more than a 15-year

                                                                                                20
frequency. The evaluation was made under different scenarios of recurrent costs and discount
rates. For the most realistic scenario of recurrent costs the trapezoidal channel was found to be
the least-cost solution. Yet, the rectangular channel was found to be the preferred option under
certain circumstances, such scarcity or high value of land, and when involuntary resettlement
was needed. The implementation of the project followed these findings and applied a
combination of both technologies.

The expected benefits, primarily linked to flood alleviation and control were achieved. Out of
16.8 km built, 4.7 km were built with a rectangular profile, and the remaining 12.1 with a
trapezoidal profile. The actual cost of the project was US$ 20.8 million, which at 2004 prices
corresponds to USD 14.5 million (see details in Annex 3), which is lower than the USD 16.5
million estimated at appraisal. The actual cost per km is USD 863,000, 13% lower than the
US$ 1 million estimated at appraisal. For 80 thousand beneficiaries the actual investment cost
per capita was therefore USD 181 compared to US$ 205 at appraisal. These results show that
the project attained the expected benefits at lower costs than foreseen at appraisal, which
makes the drainage component highly efficient.

Latrines: Final project costs for the Sanitation Component were compared with the appraisal
estimates. For comparing actual investment costs, they were transformed to 2004 prices to
eliminate price fluctuations, which were significant during the project implementation period.
The costs of labor and construction materials for these facilities in Ghana are estimated to have
increased by between 40 percent and 100 percent between 2004 and 2007 according to available
records, coinciding with the period during which most tenders were made, leading to substantial
budget overruns. By 2012 prices were 2.6 times higher than at 2004. Exchange rate fluctuation
was also significant, and local currency depreciated its value by half.

When actual costs at 2004 price are compared to those foreseen at appraisal (Table 3.2b), the
total cost is found to be 5 percent higher. Household latrines had actual cost 55 percent higher,
while public and school latrines had costs 42 percent and 26 percent lower. The cost overruns
notwithstanding, the project was able to finance more household latrines than had been
envisaged (8501 compared to 8200), due to the high demand for household latrines compared to
public ones, which led to the latter being scaled down from 91 to 36. The increase in household
latrines however represented a lower number of seats and coverage of individual beneficiaries. In
the case of household latrines, the Bank Credit was envisaged to contribute 50 percent of total
costs per household or US$150, whichever was lower, with the remainder to be contributed by
the beneficiaries in cash and/or in kind. Due to the price escalations however, the individual
households in fact had to pay the higher difference in cost.

The actual per capita cost of household latrines (US$ 25) was about 50 percent higher than
appraisal estimate, and 70 percent higher for public latrines and 5 percent of school latrines.
Actual per capita costs for the latrines, even though higher than estimated, lie well within
limits of acceptable costs, which makes them efficient and therefore the project results are
acceptable in economic terms. Based on available WASH cost data 21 from Ghana and several


21
   Data is based on sanitation expenditure and service levels emerging from WASHCost’s research, led by IRC
International Water and Sanitation Center WASHcost Programme, which collected and analyzed cost and service

                                                                                                              21
other countries, the actual costs of the facilities fall within the average range of costs for similar
facilities: according to the data, the per capita costs for VIP household latrines cost between
US$5-51), while the per capita costs for pour flush and septic tank latrines, similar to models
used for school and some public facilities cost between US$13-51).

Based on the above analysis, detailed in Annex 3, the Efficiency of the project would have been
assessed as Satisfactory. The ICR however additionally takes into consideration the total project
implementation delay of about two and a half years, and slightly downgrades the rating for
efficiency to Moderately Satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating for the project considers the PDO’s high relevance, Moderately
Satisfactory efficacy, and Moderate efficiency. The project was able to substantially achieve its
development objective in a reasonably efficient manner, with moderate shortcomings.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and Gender Impact: It can be reasonably concluded that in targeting the investments
to improve the living conditions of people in low income areas of the five cities, the project
contributed to conditions that would alleviate poverty in these areas. Moreover, the household
selection criteria for specific sub-components such as the latrine sub-component did place
specific emphasis on needy households in recognition of the vulnerability of these groups. The
project also helped to support vulnerable groups through informal economic activities, for
instance scavengers from the old waste dumps were able to organize themselves into semi-
formal groups which are now involved in recycling activities at the new landfills. Many of these
individuals, both male and female, are poor, and the opportunity availed through the project
helped to provide them with a source of income under much improved working conditions 22.
While M&E during implementation did not disaggregate data by gender, the BA provided some
disaggregated data by gender where appropriate. The data basically confirmed equal access by
both genders to all project benefits in beneficiary communities. An additional positive impact
related to gender realized through the project, was the increased school attendance of girls as a
result of the provision of school toilet facilities confirmed during the ICR interviews.




level information for water, sanitation and hygiene in rural and peri-urban areas, applying the life-cycle costs
approach from Burkina Faso, Ghana, Andhra Pradesh (India) and Mozambique.

22
  The Scavenger organizations maintain certain minimum standards during operations, including mandatory
wearing of special gear for improved health and safety.


                                                                                                                   22
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project explicitly sought to strengthen the institutions responsible for operation and
maintenance of urban environmental services in the five participating MMAs to ensure that these
services are managed in a sustainable manner, through its Institutional Strengthening Component,
financed by the NDF, and supervised by the Bank. Achievements in this regard are discussed
under the relevant IO 5 above.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no major unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A BA was conducted by independent consultants commissioned by the MLGRD in April and
May 2013 to assess the extent to which the project achieved desired development outcomes
among intended beneficiaries and to obtain critical feedback on how such interventions can be
improved in the future. The respondents represented various stakeholders, including beneficiaries
in communities and schools, the project officers and officers from the municipal assemblies who
supervised the constructional work and were part of the conceptualization, planning, design and
implementation of the project, and other stakeholders. The BA findings confirmed the substantial
achievement of the PDO, with moderate shortcomings as discussed under the section on
Achievement of Outcomes. A detailed summary of the main findings is presented in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial. The risk that development outcomes from the project will not be
maintained is rated “substantial?, based on the aggregate of risks to maintaining the outcomes
achieved under different project components, some of which are discussed below.

Financial and Institutional Risks: Risks from a financial and institutional perspective are
considered substantial. There is a risk that some MMAs may not allocate adequate resources for
proper operation and maintenance of facilities. Mitigation of this risk will depend on a
combination of political will and institutional factors primarily involving central and local
government maintaining policies for sound management, provision of continued support, and
cost-recovery in the medium- to long-term; and making adequate budgetary provisions for
covering deficits for service provision in the interim. The project has helped MAs to improve
their overall collection efficiency and to establish charges for local services such as solid waste
collection. While a successful implementation of these measures will contribute to improving
financial sustainability, the MAs will require additional reforms of their internal revenue
generation mechanisms beyond the scope of the project to ensure sustained revenue flows. These
issues will also require continued support from the MMAs and Government through enactment
of supportive policies as part of its Decentralization agenda.

Social and Attitudinal Risks: Risks from a social and attitudinal perspective are considered
substantial. Maintaining the development outcomes achieved by the project will require project
beneficiaries to remain motivated to continue operating and maintaining the facilities in a
sustainable manner, including paying needed contributions towards cost recovery or user charges

                                                                                                23
as applicable. The provision of hygiene and sanitation education and sensitization to
beneficiaries was a first step in addressing this risk by creating a greater awareness of the
benefits of using improved environmental sanitation facilities and services. More should be done
to maintain the engagement with beneficiary communities on these issues, including continued
sensitization of school children and adults on the proper use and maintenance of drainage and
toilet facilities. This will require a joint effort by relevant stakeholders, including school
administration officials, parents, and students. MMAs and communities should also continue to
monitor and hold accountable the stakeholders responsible for management of public facilities to
assure good practices and availability of sufficient resources for their management. A
mechanism for ensuring social accountability, where the citizens and communities are also able
to hold local governments accountable for doing their part in managing facilities and vice versa
should be established. Such initiatives could be spearheaded by civil society or other community
groups.

Technical Risk: Risks from a technical perspective are considered modest. The quality of
construction for most investments is adequate and technologies used were appropriate and
fundamentally easy to operate and maintain with adequate training of operators and availability
of tools and spare parts. Risks to development outcome relate mainly to inadequate maintenance
of facilities, an issue inter-linked with the financial, institutional, and social/attitudinal aspects
discussed above. Technical sustainability of all facilities, like the other threads of sustainability
discussed above, is closely dependent on sound management and maintenance systems
remaining in place, supported by the enforcement of policies to ensure continued availability of
resources.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory: Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory on balance, based on assessment of its role in overall design and
preparation of the project and the implications that it had on implementation, which resulted in
an MU QAE assessment. Most project design aspects are considered to have been relevant as
discussed above; however there were some major shortcomings in certain respects. Most project
preparation activities were consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary requirements, and appraisal took
into consideration pertinent technical, financial, and economic aspects of proposed activities.
Implementation arrangements were designed based on lessons from UESP-1, attempting to
improve sustainability of investments by strengthening WMDs’ capacity to operate and maintain
services such as drains, and to build and mainstream implementation capacity within the MMAs.
The project preparation timeframe, involving about twelve months from the Concept Review to
Board Approval, was considered sufficient for a repeater project and adequate resources were
allocated for key activities. As a repeater project, the project underwent a thorough review at the
design stage by the Regional Review Panel, which concluded that it qualified for processing as a
“Repeater?, subject to incorporation of specific recommendations, mainly aiming to improve its
sustainability.



                                                                                                   24
There were however, some major shortcomings in preparation, highlighted in the QAE section
under Section 2.1 above, including: (a) the under-estimation of the critical risks relating to
sustainability of investments and inadequate identification of sound mitigation measures for this
risk; (b) weaknesses in design of the project’s M&E results framework and arrangements; and (c)
handling the consultations in respect to the Kwabenya landfill, a risk rated as ‘high’. While the
preparation team had an adequate mix of technical, environmental, and fiduciary skills, it lacked
a Social Development Specialist, an omission that could have contributed to the apparent
inadequate handling of the this aspect.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR rates Bank performance for quality of supervision
as Moderately Satisfactory on balance, taking account of the extent to which the Bank managed
its fiduciary and other responsibilities during project implementation to enhance the likelihood of
achieving the desired outcomes in an efficient and effective manner. Adequate resources were
allocated, and a total of sixteen supervision missions were conducted over the course of
implementation. Sufficient attention was paid to management of both the Procurement and
Financial Management aspects of the project, which were carried out in a satisfactory manner in
compliance with relevant Bank policies, with minor or moderate shortcomings.

It is worth pointing out that safeguards aspects for most project components, other than the noted
issues related to the Kwabenya sub-component, were managed in compliance with relevant Bank
policies, even though management of this issue disproportionately dominated a substantial
proportion of project supervision, especially after the Inspection Investigation. One issue
suggested by the Inspection report in regard to the management of safeguards prior to the
investigation, was the apparent inadequate allocation of staff focusing on safeguards aspects
during initial missions, potentially denying the matter sufficient attention earlier during
implementation. Project supervision on these aspects however intensified after the inspection,
updating safeguards tools and engaging stakeholders to address outstanding issues. The project
Task Team Leader was moved to the field to enhance project supervision. Managing the
response to the Inspection itself constituted a significant proportion of project supervision
activities after the investigation. Implementation progress and issues were candidly described in
Bank aides-memoire and ISRs throughout implementation. One shortcoming however, with
respect to supervision, was the lack of sufficient attention to M&E of project outcome results
during implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory 23. The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as Moderately
Satisfactory on balance, considering the MU QAE and the MS Quality of Supervision, but also
the MS outcome the project was able to ultimately achieve under fairly challenging
circumstances.


23
   According to the ICR Guidelines, where the rating for one dimension if in the satisfactory range while the rating
for the other is in the unsatisfactory range, the rating for overall Bank performance depends on the outcome rating,
which in this case was in the Satisfactory range.

                                                                                                                  25
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The ICR assesses Government performance as Moderately
Unsatisfactory on balance, considering the performance of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) as the
Borrower, and the line Ministry (MLGRD) during project preparation and implementation.
Government commitment to the project was considered to have been adequate at the time of
entry, and part of the justification for processing the project as a “Repeater? was confirmation of
the Borrower’s interest in scaling up the existing project activities in this manner. Such
commitment was confirmed through a Letter of Sector Policy dated December 30, 2003. During
implementation, Government, as the Borrower, generally complied with agreed covenants in
accordance with Legal Agreements with the Bank, with MLGRD maintaining close coordination
and dialogue with relevant government entities and the Bank on most issues to address issues as
they arose. MLGRD, through the PCU, was also able to provide sound oversight and
backstopping to support the MAs to ensure technical quality of design and construction work.

Government performance however had significant shortcomings, relating to three key aspects.
(a) Its handling of the Kwabenya compensation and land transfer issues. Although the Bank
approved Government’s request to use the Credit to pay compensation costs to PAPs for this
activity, together with a seven month closing date extension to allow additional time for
completing the process, the Government has not been able to complete the compensation process
by the end of the Grace period for the Credit. (b) Its failure to provide counterpart funds in a
timely manner on several occasions. (c) Its failure to regularly convene the Steering Committee
meetings, comprising representatives from relevant government agencies involved in urban
service provision, including the Project Assemblies, MoFEP, MLGRD, Ministry of Works and
Housing, Ministry of Health, Urban Roads Department, and the Environmental Protection
Agency, to oversee the project during implementation. The Steering Committee was established
with the intention to meet at least once a year with the Bank to review progress and address
major issues arising. Steering Committee meetings were however not consistently convened
during implementation, largely due to what appeared to be competing schedules and
responsibilities by members, leaving project oversight primarily to MLGRD.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR recognizes the Implementing Agencies’, in this case
as comprising two key groups: the PCU within MLGRD overseeing the five MMAs, and the five
individual MMAs responsible for implementation of activities in their respective jurisdictions.
Needless to say, the performance of these individual entities varied considerably.

PCU Performance: PCU performance was Satisfactory overall. The ICR recognizes the high
performance and overall commitment of the PCU during preparation and implementation, to
effectively implement this relatively complex project, covering multi-sectoral activities in
multiple cities, to achieve desired development outcomes, and rates their overall performance
Satisfactory. The PCU was able to provide technical support to the MMAs as needed, and
coordinated all project activities in a satisfactory manner.



                                                                                                26
MMA performance: MMA performance was on balance Moderately Satisfactory. While some
MMAs such as Kumasi and Tamale, were able to implement their components in a satisfactory
manner, with minor shortcomings, and Sekondi-Takoradi also demonstrated satisfactory
performance, with moderate shortcomings, the other MMAs faced some capacity constraints and
needed more support, especially in the beginning. By the end of the project, overall capacity had
been enhanced and the implementing agencies were able to effectively manage required
fiduciary, as well as safeguards and other implementation aspects for most activities with minor
or moderate shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR rates the overall Borrower performance as
Moderately Satisfactory overall considering the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for the
Government performance, the Moderately Satisfactory rating for the Implementing agencies, in
respect to ensuring quality at entry and supervision, and the Moderately Satisfactory project
Outcome. Based on the ICR guidelines, the composite rating is linked to the outcome.


6. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project are outlined below.

a) Due diligence in respect to Safeguards should involve close monitoring of changing
   conditions on the ground, especially where there has been a considerable time lag between
   initial collection of baseline data and final preparation of Safeguards documents. Safeguards
   analyses during project identification and preparation should also take legacy issues from
   prior operations, including those that were not approved or were abandoned by other
   financiers, very seriously.

b) The Bank and Borrowers should ensure careful cross-sectoral coordination, internally and
   externally, as early as possible during project design to avoid potentially conflicting designs
   and/or siting of investments. Two cases under the project illustrated the importance of this
   issue. First, the proposed location of the septage treatment facility for Accra that was to be
   financed through the project had to be abandoned on the instructions of the city’s Mayor, due
   to its proximity to a new bus terminal also financed by the Bank. Second, the Bank financed
   an Energy project, involving a power transmission line whose route crossed the proposed
   Kwabenya landfill site. This issue could have raised concerns had the landfill been
   constructed.

c) There are trade-offs between strengthening the institutional capacity of implementing
   agencies through ‘learning by doing approaches’ while at the same time holding them
   accountable for implementing critical project activities,       and associated risks to
   implementation progress and quality should be duly recognized and adequately mitigated.

d) While the construction of infrastructure (hardware) can be implemented with relative speed,
   realization of benefits requiring ‘software’ aspects such as changes in behavior including
   hygiene and sanitation habits, institutional culture, and community management practices,
                                                                                               27
   takes much longer. Design of project implementation schedules should ensure that sufficient
   time is given to the implementation of ‘software’ activities in order to reap the full benefits.
e) For infrastructure investments and services targeting the poor, it is not uncommon to
   continue to require in the short-to medium-term some form of cross-subsidy among
   beneficiary groups and/or continued support from central or local governments from
   revenues other than direct user fees to ensure service delivery on a sustainable basis.

f) Adequate resources should be allocated for critical M&E activities such as BAs, and these
   activities included as deliverables in Procurement Plans to allow for completion of data
   collection and analysis of project outcomes before the closing date. M&E support should also
   be provided to teams early during preparation and implementation to ensure strong results
   frameworks.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Borrower’s input provided in form of Borrower’s ICR in Annex 6.

(b) Cofinanciers
Comments were not provided.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Comments were not provided.




                                                                                                28
                                    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) 24
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                                        Percentage of
            Components                                     Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                            Appraisal
                                                              millions)
Component 1 - Storm Drainage               16.50                 20.32                             123.6
Component 2 – Sanitation                    7.75                  8.72                             112.6
Component 3 - Solid Waste
                                           25.72                 15.94                               62
Management
Component 4 - Community
                                            8.54                 12.95                             151.7
Infrastructure Upgrading
Component 5 - Institutional
                                            9.57                  9.72                             101.6
Strengthening
Component 6 - Project Management            1.13                  2.53                             146.3
PPF Refund                                  0.60                  0.60                              100
               25
Compensation                                 -                    0.18
                Total Baseline Cost        69.81                 70.96
Physical Contingencies
                                                        4.77                      0.0                0
Price Contingencies
                                                        6.35                      0.0                0
                     Total Project Costs
                                                       80.93                     70.96 26           87.7
Front-end fee PPF                                       0.00                      0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.00                      0.00              .00
         Total Financing Required
                                                       80.93




24
     The project earned exchange gains amounting to US$1.936 million.

25
     This activity was not part of appraisal and was added through project restructuring.

26
   The discrepancy in amounts is explained by the fact that most of the beneficiary and the MMA contributions were
in kind rather than in cash, making it difficult for the project accounts to fully capture the actual amounts.


                                                                                                               29
(b) Financing
                                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                      Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
                Source of Funds                                        Estimate 27    Estimate
                                                       financing                                    Appraisal
                                                                     (USD millions) (USD millions)
                                                     Counterpart
Borrower                                                              2.37         2.37             100
                                                     funds
                                                     Beneficiary
Local Communities                                                     2.96         3.99             135
                                                     contributions 28
 International Development Association
                                       Credit                        62.0 29       60.68            97.9
(IDA)
                                       Counterpart
 Municipalities of Borrowing Country                                 3.25          3.25             100
                                       contributions 30
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)         Grant                         10.35 31      9.12             88.2
Total                                                                80.93         79.07            97.7
AFD Credit 32                                                        32.855 33     32.855           100




27
  Data is taken from the PAD. Where there is a discrepancy with the Borrower’s data, the value in the PAD prevails.
The PAD did not include data on the AFD Credit.

28
     Beneficiary contributions in cash or in kind.

29
   The amount at appraisal was estimated at 62.0 million, but is currently 62.78 million due to exchange rate
fluctuations.

30
     MMA contributions in cash or in kind.

31
     NDF provided Euro 9 million.

32
     The AFD funding was not included in the PAD as it was parallel funding.

33
     AFD Credit was Euro 25 million.


                                                                                                                30
                (c) Original Budget* Allocation of IDA Credit by Implementing Agencies

                                                           Original October 2004             Revised June 2010
     No.             Implementing Agency
                                                             US$m          %                  US$m        %
           1   Accra Metropolitan                            19.32       23.9%                17.08     21.1%
           2   Kumasi Metropolitan                           15.34       19.0%                17.40     21.5%
           3   Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolitan                  8.60       10.6%                14.08     17.4%
           4   Tamale Metropolitan                            4.62        5.7%                 6.64      8.2%
           5   Tema Metropolitan                              15.2       18.8%                22.41     27.7%
           6   MLGRD                                          6.73        8.3%                 3.32      4.1%
               Total base cost                               69.81       86.3%                80.93     100.0%
               Contingencies (Performance-Based
               Fund)                                           11.12           13.7%                  0
               TOTAL COST                                      80.93          100.0%          80.93       100.0%

                           d) Summary of Reallocations During Implementation

           Category of Expenditure                               Allocation                        % of Financing
           Current                             Original        Revised (I) 34    Revised (II) 35
           1. Civil Works
           a)Works other than Household        29,000,000      30,989,000        30,635,000        100% foreign;
           Latrines                                                                                90% local
           b)Household latrines                1,800,000       849,000           765,000           50%
           2.Vehicles, Equipment, and
           Spare Parts
           a)Project Cities                    1,300,000       483,000           1,863,000         100% foreign;
                                                                                                   90% local
           b)MLGRD                             150,000         150,000           146,000           100% foreign;
                                                                                                   90% local
           3.Consultancy, Studies, and
           Training:
           a)Project Cities                    2,750,000       4,523,000         3,986,000         90%
           b)MLGRD                             250,000         644,000           846,000           90%
           4.Operating Cost:
           a)Solid Waste                       1,150,000       3,025,000         0
           b)Others                            350,000         537,000           671,000           90%
           5.Refinancing of PPF                400,000         400,000           49,000            N/A
           Advance
           6.Unallocated/Performance           4,450,000       0                 2,639,000
           Fund
           TOTAL                               41,600,000      41,600,000        41,600,000


34
     First reallocation, done through Second Level Project Restructuring of June 3, 2010.

35
     Second reallocation, done through Second Level Project Restructuring of December 5, 2011.


                                                                                                                   31
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project comprised five components, each one addressing one of four infrastructure elements of urban
environmental management services, as well as their institutional and financial capacity building aspects
in the five largest towns in Ghana: Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and Tema. The
components were as follows:
A) Component 1 - Storm Drainage (US$16.5 million base cost)
This component was intended to finance the realignment, dredging, and lining of about 16.7 km of
primary and secondary drains; erosion control measures; and construction of small bridges in
Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi, and Tema. Design of this Component was based on a comprehensive
drainage study carried out in Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi in the early 90’s, which prioritized
masterplans for the dredging and lining of drains prepared. Sporadic attempts to preserve natural flood
basins and to build retention basins upstream were made at different times, but largely failed due to
uncontrolled land development. According to residents and government officials, the dredging and
lining of major primary and secondary storm drains carried out under the UESP-1 significantly
reduced the frequency, severity, and duration of flooding in these areas but were unable to cover
the entire project areas. Activities under the Drainage Component of the UESP-2 were designed
to scale up the achievements of UESP-1 in this regard in order to further reduce the problems
with flooding. The expected outcome with respect to this component was a reduced frequency, severity,
and duration of flooding in low-lying areas. A summary of achievements against targets is presented in
Table A2.1 below.
Outputs and Achievements: A summary of key outputs of this component is presented in Table A2.1
below.
                    Table A2.1 Summary of Outputs from Drainage Component
  Project Component                    Project Targets                         Project Achievements
Storm Drainage             Reconstruction of 16.7 km of storm          •   Accra – 1.1 km buried concrete
                           drains in 4 towns:                              conduit and 1.3 km concrete
                           • Accra (3.5km),                                lined channel
                           • Kumasi (5.5km),                           •   Kumasi – 6.0 km concrete lined
                           • Sekondi/ Takoradi (3.5km) and                 channel
                           • Tema (4.2km) to reduce flooding           •   Sekondi/Tak – 1.1 km lined
                                                                           channel and 3.8 km channel
                                                                           improvement
                                                                       •   Tema – 3.5 km concrete lined
                                                                           channel




                                                                                                      32
Picture A1 - Accra Storm Drainage (Before and After Project) – Mataheko Drain and Road




Picture A2 - Accra Storm Drainage (Before and After Project) – Onyasia Drain




B) Component 2 - Sanitation (US$7.8 million base cost)
This component had several subcomponents: (a) construction of household latrines and establishment of a
domestic latrine delivery program; (b) rehabilitation and construction of public latrines in public places;
(c) rehabilitation and construction of school latrines combined with hygiene education and the provision
of water supply where needed; (d) rehabilitation or construction of septage treatment facilities; and (e)
improved sewerage management in Tema. The expected outcome with respect to this component was an
increased coverage with conveniently located and hygienic latrines.
Design of this Component was based on Strategic Sanitation Plans (SSPs) prepared under UESP-1 by all
MAs except for Accra 36. The SSPs set out the MA strategies for providing comprehensive sanitation
services by the year 2005. The SSPs included a priority listing of the mix of household, public and school
facilities needed to serve the cities’ low-income households and a description of the management and
financing arrangements needed to implement each component. The key SSP objectives were: (i)
Elimination of pan latrines and a move from public facilities to household sanitation facilities; (ii)
Improved public facilities in neighborhoods and commercial centers; (iii) Improved school facilities; and
(iv) Provision of new septage treatment facilities. The SSPs contained recommendations about technology



36
  The project was to assist AMA to prepare an SSP and the other project MAs to revise their SSPs through the
Institutional Strengthening component.

                                                                                                               33
options, depending on housing densities and household income. Subsidies were targeted to low-income
households.
Household latrines: The project was to deliver 8,200 household latrines, to serve about 160,000
people. The project MAs adopted an integrated approach involving education, enforcement of
bylaws, and engineering and to continue to carry out this program after the project end. The
project was to assist the MAs in revising and enforcing the applicable bylaws, supplemented by
an awareness campaign and hygiene education. It concentrated mainly on the low-income
communities where infrastructure upgrading was carried out, to allow a more comprehensive approach to
environmental sanitation in the selected low-income neighborhoods through combining improvements in
solid waste collection, drainage, paved access roads, and water supply, where needed, with an intensive
household latrine construction program and hygiene education. The IDA subsidy for latrine construction
was 50 %, the same level as for UESP-1, with the remainder contributed by the beneficiaries in cash
and/or in kind. The program set a subsidy ceiling of $150 per latrine.
Public latrines: The project was to include the rehabilitation or construction of 91 twenty37-seater units
of public latrines, to benefit about 70,000 people. They were to be located in public areas such as markets,
lorry parks and light industrial areas in accordance with the Environmental Sanitation Policy of 1999.
Operation and maintenance was to be contracted to private contractors through competition, as was the
case with UESP-1.
School latrines: School latrines consisting of 167 ten or twelve-seater blocks were to be renovated or
constructed in primary and junior secondary schools, hygiene education given in the classroom, and water
supply connections made to those schools that did not have them. This was to benefit about 70,000 school
children and teachers. The enrolment in schools averaged about 400, divided into morning and afternoon
sessions. Each will typically be served by a 12-seater block, consisting of a unit of 5 seats for girls and 1
for women teachers, and an identical unit for boys and men teachers. The technology was a KVIP latrine
with alternating pits or a Water Closet or Pour Flush with a septic tank and a drain field. Operation and
maintenance arrangements were determined by school officials, in consultation with the PTA, and were
described in individual Facilities and Management Plans. Private sludge haulers would periodically be
hired to empty the latrine pits or septic tanks.
Hygiene Education: Existing hygiene education materials, including those that were developed under
UESP-1, were to be reviewed and disseminated to participating schools, and the project was to provide
support to hygiene education, including the ongoing national hand washing campaign targeted at school
children. Each MA will discuss and finalize an annual hygiene and sanitation Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) Campaign with the School Health Education Program with emphasis on hand
washing with soap and will allocate resources for implementing the campaign on a city-wide basis.

Liquid Waste Management in Accra and Tema: This activity involved: (a) the construction of an
access road for the Tema Septage treatment facilities constructed under UESP-1; and (b) rehabilitation
and expansion of the existing septage treatment facility at Achimota, Accra.

Outputs and Achievements: Table A2.2 summarizes the key outputs from the toilet facilities sub-
components. Both Septage treatment facilities were however not rehabilitated or expanded.




37
  Normally, a latrine block will consist of 20 seats, half for men and half for women, but an occasional 10-seater
may also be constructed.


                                                                                                                     34
                                Table A2.2 Sanitation Component: Summary of Toilet Outputs



           Household Latrines
 Town                                         Public Latrines                                School Latrines
           (No of drop holes)
                                   PAD Target              Completed            PAD Target                 Completed
           Target     Actual    Facilities Seats     Facilities   Seats      Facilities Seats        Facilities   Seats

  Accra     1,500      1649         20       400         6          120          34          340        34         263
 Kumasi     2,000      2,000        26       520        16          142          47          470        18         162
Sekondi-
Takoradi    1,700      1,716        15       280         7          128          32           320       32         271
 Tamale     1,500      1,536        12       240         7          144          32           320       42         426
  Tema      1,500      1600         18       360                                 22           220       13         138
TOTAL       8,200      8,501        91      1,800       36          534         167          1,670     139        1,260


               Picture A3. Rehabilitation of Public sanitation Facility – Tamale (Before and After Project)




                                                                                                                          35
C) Component 3 - Solid Waste Management (US$25.7 million base cost)
This component had several sub-components: (a) construction of new sanitary landfills for Accra
and Tema, and the completion of the one in Sekondi-Takoradi; (b) equipment for sanitary
landfills; (c) closure, and rehabilitation of existing refuse dumps; (d) operation of sanitary
landfills, preceded by the improved operation of some; (e) private solid waste collection; and (f)
supply of household bins, skips and skip pads. The expected outcome from this component was
an increase in the amount and regularity of refuse collected and disposed of in a technically,
institutionally, financially and environmentally sustainable manner.
The solid waste component under UESP-2 was designed to build upon similar activities
implemented under UESP-1. It consisted of the following key activities: (i) the construction of
sanitary landfills in Accra and Tema, supply of equipment for their operation, and the completion
of the sanitary landfill in Sekondi-Takoradi; (ii) support for effective operation of the three
landfills in Kumasi, Tamale, and Sekondi-Takoradi that were constructed under UESP-1,
including monitoring for environmental compliance and the involvement of local private
operators in their operation; (iii) improved use of the refuse dumps that still had to be exploited
until the new facilities were ready, followed by their closure and rehabilitation; (iv) rehabilitation
of discontinued refuse dumps, and (iv) scaling up private solid waste collection on the basis of
lessons learned from the pilots. A summary of the key targets and achievements is presented in
Table A2.3 below.
                  Table A2.3 Solid Waste Component: Summary of Outputs
   Project                    Project Targets                          Project Achievements
Component
Solid Waste       • Construction of new sanitary                 • Sanitary landfill for Tema
Management          landfills for Accra and Tema                   completed
                  • Completion of partially complete             • Sanitary landfill in Sekondi-
                    landfill in Sekondi-Takoradi;                  Takoradi completed
                  • Provision of equipment for                   • Equipment provided for
                    sanitary landfills;                            landfills
                  • Closure, and rehabilitation of               • Refuse dumps in Accra,
                    existing refuse dumps;                         Takoradi and Kumasi
                  • Operation of sanitary landfills,               rehabilitated and closed.
                    preceded by the improved                     • Household bins and Solid
                    operation of some;                             Waste containers procured for
                  • Private solid waste collection; and            4 cities.
                  • Supply of household bins, skips
                    and skip pads

Construction and Provision of Equipment for Sanitary Landfills: Two sanitary landfills were
to be financed through the project, one at Kwabenya for Accra, and one for Tema. The works
were to include weighbridges, a site office, water supply and a surrounding buffer zone. Access
roads already existed, on which traffic flow and safety improvements were to be made. Only the
Tema landfill was constructed 38. It will receive refuse from Tema as well as parts of Accra and


38
  In September 2010, the Mayor of Accra informed the MLGRD that AMA would not continue with the
development of the Kwabenya landfill.


                                                                                                   37
Ga District, estimated at 100,000 tons/year. In addition, the Sekondi-Takoradi sanitary landfill
initiated under UESP-1was completed under UESP-2. Equipment for operation of the new
sanitary landfills was financed through the project, and included: a front loader, a compactor, a
tipper truck, a water tanker, motorcycles, and communications equipment. Training and technical
assistance for their efficient operation and maintenance was part of the Institutional Strengthening
component.
Improved Use, Closure, and Rehabilitation of Refuse Dumps: This subcomponent involved
implementation of measures to ensure optimal use of the existing refuse dumps in Accra, Tema
and Sekondi-Takoradi to allow their continued use in the interim while sanitary landfills were
being constructed, and to take remedial measures for safeguarding the environment. Once the
new landfills were completed, the existing dumps would be rehabilitated to minimize their
negative environmental and social impact. Refuse damps in Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi, and Tema
were rehabilitated and closed. Closure and rehabilitation included relocation of scavengers,
leachate captivation and treatment, methane ventilation, contour stabilization, soil cover, and
fencing.
Household bins, skips and skip pads, and other equipment: The project financed the supply of
waste containers, including bins for households, skips, and skip pads in areas where door-to door
collection is not feasible. Additional equipment provided included Information vans, motorcycles,
and mini tractors.
Outputs and Achievements: A summary of this equipment is provided below.
     Table A2.4 Solid Waste Collection – Summary of Containers and Equipment
                             Procured Through Project


       ITEM                         AMA           KMA           TMA       TaMA          STMA

       Waste Containers                -            91            35         37            27

       Information Van                 1            1              1          1             1

       Motor Cycles                   11            10             6          3             4

       Mini Tractors                  11             -             -          -             -


Operation of Sanitary Landfills: This sub-component financed part of the operational costs for
sanitary landfills constructed through the UESP-1 and UESP-2. The landfills that were
completed in Kumasi and Tamale under UESP-1 and the one at Sekondi-Takoradi that was to be
completed under UESP-2, were designed for efficient use and to meet environmentally sound
standards, but the respective MAs were unable to finance their operation costs under existing
revenue generating arrangements. The project was to provide limited financial support for the
normal O&M costs associated with the operation of the sanitary landfills through operational
subsidies applied on a declining basis. Operating subsidies would be at the rate of 50% for the
first two years, 35% for the next two years, and 25% for the remainder of the project. 39 Technical


39
     Identical to the IDA financing of the waste management contracts


                                                                                                 38
assistance would be provided through the NDF financed capacity-building component. To help
the MAs with better plans for bridging the funding gap by the end of the project, each MA was to
prepare an annual operating plan for the landfill with evidence of adequate budgetary provision
for meeting the funding shortfall. Some of the landfills, such as Team, had not prepared such
plans at the time of the ICR mission.
Private Solid Waste Collection: This sub-component was intended to directly build upon the
experience and lessons learned from UESP-1 in respect to private sector involvement in solid
waste collection. Contracting out solid waste collection following a competitive process was
introduced in the MAs on a pilot basis under UESP-1. The MAs were zoned into collection areas
suitable for competitive collection contracts, and model contracts were developed for engaging
private collection firms on a competitive basis. Each city selected a pilot collection zone for
generating lessons for wider replication and IDA financed part of the cost of the collection
contracts/ in the pilot zones on a declining basis. The pilots were implemented in Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and Tema. No program was carried out in Accra because one
company was given a monopoly for solid waste collection by the previous government. The
experience showed that high-income users were willing to pay in full for the service while
middle-income users for part of it. Collecting fees directly from low-income users has been
difficult partly because waste collection is not door-to-door. The pilot also showed that all the key
aspects of the mutual obligations should be specified in the contract.
UESP-2 Outputs and Achievements: The program was continued under UESP-2 to apply the
experiences learned and to extend this kind of service to other middle and low-income areas. Two
such contracts in addition to the old pilots are planned in each of the 5 MAs. IDA financed the
new contracts at the rate of 50% for the first two years, 35% for the next two years, and 25% for
the remainder of the project.

Picture A4. Rehabilitation of Oblogo Waste Dumpsite in Accra (Before and After the
Project)




D) Component 4 – Community Infrastructure Upgrading (US$8.5 million base cost)
This component comprised infrastructure upgrading in low-income communities, consisting
mainly of access roads, roadside drains, street lighting, water supply, and sanitation. The expected
outcome was better access to high-density neighborhoods that had been difficult or impossible to


                                                                                                  39
access with a motor vehicle, less flooding, erosion and dust, better neighborhood safety at night,
fewer water pipe breakages, more registered water consumers, and improved sanitation. Under
the project, 13 communities in the five project towns were to be upgraded, which would benefit
an estimated 80,800 residents.
                           Table A2.5 Communities to be Upgraded

 City                Communities                                            Estimated number
                                                                             of beneficiaries
 Accra               Alajo, James Town, and Kpehe                                         15,800
 Kumasi              Old Tafo and Ayigya                                                  24,800
 Sekondi-            Effia-Kuma, New Takoradi, and Kojokrom/Anoe                          13,400
 Takoradi
 Tamale              Tishegu-Moyahibili-Nyanshegu, Buillpala                              13,400
                     Kakpalylli Nalonfon, and PoliyafanAboabo Ward I
 Tema                East Ashaiman and Kpone                                              13,400
 TOTAL POPULATION                                                                         80,800

The same list of infrastructure improvements as in UESP-1 featured prominently in the
communities’ list of priorities. The communities in Accra and Tema were chosen from a long list
of 32 low-income communities in Greater Accra (which includes the urban part of Ga District
adjacent to Accra) with severe infrastructure deficiencies, following the results of a study and
community consultations that were completed in August 2002. A menu of roads, drains, water
supply, toilets, refuse collection, and street lighting was offered to the communities, and their
priority choices were used to prepare preliminary plans. The communities to be upgraded in
Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi had been identified in 1996 during the preparation for UESP-1,
but could not be included in UESP-1 due to budget constraints.

Outputs and Achievements: A summary of outputs for this Component against targets is
presented in Table A2.4 below.

            Table A2.4 Community Upgrading Component: Summary of Outputs
 Project Component                      Project Targets                      Project Achievements
Community                  Provision of roads, drains, sanitation      Community upgrading works in
Infrastructure             facilities, security lighting and water     the following communities
Upgrading                  supply in 14 communities to benefit         completed:
                           about 100,000 people                        • Three in Accra: Alajo and
                           • Three in Accra: Alajo, Abeka                 Abeka Wuoyeman
                              Wuoyeman, Kpehe,                         • Two in Kumasi: Old Tafo and
                           • Two in Kumasi: Old Tafo and                  Ayigya
                              Ayigya                                   • Sekondi/Takoradi: New
                           • Three in Sekondi/Takoradi: New               Takoradi, Kwesimintsim, and
                              Takoradi, Effia-Zongo,                      Kojokrom/Anoe
                              Kwesimintsim, and                        • Four in Tamale: Tishegu-
                              Kojokrom/Anoe                               Mayabihi-Nyanshegu, Bulepela

                                                                                               40
                           • Four in Tamale: Tishegu-                  and Poliyafon Aboabo Ward I
                             Mayabihi-Nyanshegu, Bulepela            • Two in Tema: East Ashaiman
                             Kakpayili Nalonfon, and                   and Kpone
                             Poliyafon Aboabo Ward I and
                           • Two in Tema : East Ashaiman
                             and Kpone

       Picture A5. Kumasi Infrastructure Upgrading (Before and After the project)




COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (US$9.6 million base cost,
financed by the Norwegian Development Fund (NDF))
This component had several subcomponents: (a) technical assistance and training, (b) capacity
building in MLGRD and other central agencies, (c) capacity building in MAs, (d) malaria vector
control and HIV/AIDS prevention, (e) project-wide monitoring, (f) reconditioning of waste
management equipment, (g) house numbering, and (h) a communications strategy. The contract
for the Institutional Strengthening consultants commenced in August 2006 for completion
in March 2010. The contract was extended under an addendum which commenced in July
2010 for completion in June 2011. A further extension was granted bringing the
consultancy contract to a close in October 2011.
Outputs and Achievements: Support was provided to at least ten departments in the MAs in
form of Technical Assistance and training (both formal and on the job training) and
provision of vehicles and equipment to address two broad aspects: (i) capacity building to
improve aimed at institutional and financial improvements in environmental sanitation;
and (ii) support for provision of necessary skills and facilities for every MA to implement
its share of the project. Specific support focused on: development of guidelines and
action plans to strengthen the MA’s human resources and financial management capacity;
training in legal, regulatory, and communications aspects; design and installation of MIS
software; support for Drain Maintenance Units; public health, and equipment
management. It also included renovation of offices and staff training. Achievement of the
relevant target focused on equipment provided through the project, including office
equipment, computer hardware and software, vehicles since this represented the majority
of equipment available in the MAs. Most equipment supplied was found to be in
operating condition at the end of the project and the target in respect to the number of
WMDs in which at least 60 percent of serviceable waste management equipment is in

                                                                                           41
operating condition was met. A summary of achieved outcomes is presented below. A
more detailed description of the achievements under this component is presented in
Annex 2.

•   Training conducted under this component for MA employees has contributed to
    enhanced human resource capacity through provision of knowledge and skills in
    respect to a broad range of issues, including: management of information (MIS) and
    information technology related to operations; technical operations such as drainage
    and solid and liquid waste management; legal and regulatory issues and enforcement
    of bye-laws.
•   Other stakeholders such as officials from the Ghana Health Service and the Ghana
    Education Service were trained in public health aspects, including HIV/AIDS
    education and counseling and testing, and malaria vector control in the project areas,
    although it is unclear to what extent these activities achieved improvements in respect
    to the occurrence of these diseases.
•   Billing and Collection, and Financial Management and Accounting systems were
    strengthened through training and computerization of systems for compilation and
    collation of bills; however, according to the BA there were limited improvements in
    meeting actual revenue targets, and in overall financial management.
•   The provision of equipment such as a CAT Compactor and Crawler, motorcycles, and
    refuse containers have all contributed to enhancing overall MA capacity for managing
    solid waste collection and disposal in an effective manner, contributing to the overall
    achievement and sustainability of outcomes under the waste management
    components.
•   Provision of office equipment, computers, and vehicles, including pick-up trucks and
    motorbikes, and office renovation has contributed to enhanced MA work
    environment, efficiency and access to information, mobility, and capacity to
    managing their roles in environmental sanitation.
•   MA communication capacity has been strengthened through the communications sub-
    component, which included training in of staff to produce information, education, and
    communication materials on issues relating to waste management, such as bye-laws
    and associated sanctions for breach thereof, and the rationale for and sanctions for
    failure to meet revenue payment obligations, and public health and environmental
    hygiene issues.
•   There has been some improvement in the financial capabilities of the MAs to
    facilitate achievement of outcomes under the respective infrastructure sub-
    components, according to the BA. However, MAs continue to rely heavily on central
    government transfers to cover their operating expenses.




                                                                                        42
Table A2. 5 Summary of Outputs Under Institutional Strengthening Component
   Sector Area                                 Outputs
                  •   Guidelines for establishing HR Units in Project Assemblies
 Policy &             were developed
 Institutional    •   Capacity strengthening action plans were developed and
                      implemented.
                  •   A Sensitization and Leveling Workshop for MA lawyers and
                      relevant officers was conducted
                  •   Four Lawyer were sent for a course in Legislative Drafting in
 Legal and
                      the United States of America
 Regulatory
                  •   Specialized courses were organized to build capacity
                  •   A Sanitation Court was established in the Project cities

                  •   Communication Fora to train PR staff on behavioral change,
                      message design, M&E strategies, selective communication tools
                      were conducted
 Communication    •   Planning and development of training material in Polluter-Pay
                      Principle as a policy direction was undertaken
                  •   Revenue Enhancement, Environmental Sanitation ant Bye Law
                      Enforcement Campaigns were held in Project Assemblies.
                  •   Customizing of a Chart of Accounts for the MAs within given
                      BPEMS framework was designed
 Financial
                  •   A draft outline of policies & methodologies for cost recovery
 Management /
                      for solid waste was completed
 Development:
                  •   Procurement and installation of Accounting Software for
                      TAMA was undertaken .
                  •   Agreed Action Plans were implemented
 Billings &       •   Development and demonstration by Service providers on how
 Collection           their systems can be tailored to Project Assemblies Database
                      management requirements were undertaken
                  •   Design, procurement and installation of appropriate softwares
                      to improve performance in MAs were undertaken.
                  •   Workshops to design conceptual database schema from the
                      MAs’ data requirements were carried out
 IT/MIS           •   A unified input data entry template to capture data on
                      Properties, businesses, population, revenue, etc., was designed.
                  •    Website/Intranet sites were launched for all MAs.
                  •   156 Computers and Accessories were procured for departments
                      in the MAs




                                                                                         43
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Introduction: Cost-effectiveness rather than Cost-benefit analysis was used as a measure
of efficiency at appraisal because key project outputs were considered as not having
market prices that could be readily assessed, precluding measurement of benefits in
monetary terms. The analysis at appraisal focused on two sub-components: (a) storm
drains, and (b) latrines in residential areas. The stream of costs over the economic life of
the investments was discounted to the present to determine the least-cost solution. In
selecting the best option, additional information on non-quantifiable costs and benefits
was considered. Based on availability of data, the ICR considered cost-effectiveness of
the drainage component.

Storm Drains: Actual project costs for the Drainage Component were transformed to
2004 prices and compared with the appraisal estimates. Adjusting actual costs to 2004
prices, externalities caused by monetary fluctuation are taken out. For doing so the costs
were broken down by foreign and domestic components and adjusted accordingly with
exchange rate fluctuations and inflation rate during the implementation period. A high
volatility in prices coincided with the period of construction for facilities under the
project (2004 – 2012), raising prices substantially. By 2012 prices were 2.6 times higher
than at 2004. Exchange rate fluctuation was also significant, which made the local
currency depreciate by half to the USD. (See more details on Attachment 1 to this Annex).

During appraisal three alternatives were analyzed: (a) dredging to increase the channel
profile without lining; (b) dredging and lining with a trapezoidal profile; and (c) dredging
and lining with a rectangular profile. Common assumptions for all 3 designs were an
economic life of 15 years and a drain design that would prevent floods of more than a 15-
year frequency. The evaluation was made under different scenarios of recurrent costs and
discount rates. For the most realistic scenario of recurrent costs the trapezoidal channel
was found to be the least-cost solution. Yet, the rectangular channel was found to be the
preferred option under certain circumstances, such scarcity or high value of land, and
when involuntary resettlement was needed. The implementation of the project followed
these findings and applied a combination of both technologies.

The expected benefits, primarily linked to flood alleviation and control were achieved.
Out of 16.8 km built, 4.7 km were built with a rectangular profile, and the remaining 12.1
with a trapezoidal profile. The actual cost of the project was US$ 20.8 million, which at
2004 prices corresponds to USD 14.5 million (see details in Annex 3), which is lower
than the USD 16.5 million estimated at appraisal. The actual cost per km is USD 863,000,
13% lower than the US$ 1 million estimated at appraisal. For 80 thousand beneficiaries
the actual investment cost per capita was therefore USD 181 compared to US$ 205 at
appraisal. These results show that the project attained the expected benefits at lower
costs than foreseen at appraisal, which makes the drainage component highly
efficient.




                                                                                         44
Latrines: Final project costs for the Sanitation Component were compared with the
appraisal estimates. For comparing actual investment costs, they were transformed to
2004 prices to eliminate price fluctuations, which were significant during the project
implementation period. The costs of labor and construction materials in Ghana are
estimated to have increased by between 40 percent and 100 percent between 2004 and
2007 according to available records, coinciding with the period during which most
tenders were made, leading to substantial budget overruns. By 2012 prices were 2.6
times higher than at 2004. Exchange rate fluctuation was also significant, and local
currency depreciated its value by half.

When actual costs at 2004 price are compared to those foreseen at appraisal (Table 3.2b),
the total cost is found to be 5 percent higher. Household latrines had actual cost 55
percent higher, while public and school latrines had costs 42 percent and 26 percent
lower. The cost overruns notwithstanding, the project was able to finance more household
latrines than had been envisaged (8501 compared to 8200), due to the high demand for
household latrines compared to public ones, which led to the latter being scaled down
from 91 to 36. The increase in household latrines however represented a lower number of
seats and coverage of individual beneficiaries.

In the case of household latrines, the Bank Credit was envisaged to contribute 50 percent
of total costs per household or US$150, whichever was lower, with the remainder to be
contributed by the beneficiaries in cash and/or in kind. Due to the price escalations
however, the individual households in fact had to pay the higher difference in cost. The
actual per capita cost of household latrines (US$ 25) was about 50 percent higher than
appraisal estimate, and 70 percent higher for public latrines and 5 percent of school
latrines. Actual per capita costs for the latrines, even though higher than estimated,
lie well within limits of acceptable costs, which makes them efficient and therefore
the project results are acceptable in economic terms. Based on available WASH cost
data 40 from Ghana and several other countries, the actual costs of the facilities fall within
the average range of costs for similar facilities: according to the data, the per capita costs
for VIP household latrines cost between US$5-51), while the per capita costs for pour
flush and septic tank latrines, similar to models used for school and some public facilities
cost between US$13-51).




40
    Data is based on sanitation expenditure and service levels emerging from WASHCost’s research, led by
IRC International Water and Sanitation Center WASHcost Programme, which collected and analyzed cost
and service level information for water, sanitation and hygiene in rural and peri-urban areas, applying the
life-cycle costs approach from Burkina Faso, Ghana, Andhra Pradesh (India) and Mozambique.

                                                                                                         45
                                        Table 3.2a) Appraisal Costs

 Latrine            No. of     No. of      Base cost,           Cost per    Cost per        Number            Cost per
 Type               units      seats        Mill. $              Unit, $     seat, $        of bene-            bene-
                                                                                            ficiaries         ficiary, $
 Household          8,200      8,200             2.68               327            327      160,000               17
 Public                91      1,820             1.49            16,374            819       70,000               21
 (20-seater)
 School               167      2,004             2.24            13,413       1,118             70,000            32
 (12-seater*)
 TOTAL              8458      12,024             6.41                              533      300,000               21


                                      Table 3.2 b) End of Project Costs

 Latrine            No. of    No. of      Base cost,            Cost per    Cost per            Number        Cost per
 Type               units     seats        Mill. $               Unit, $     seat, $            of bene-       bene-
                                          (2004 price)                                          ficiaries     ficiary,
                                                                                                                  $
 Household          8,501     8,501         4.15                  488          488               165,873          25
 Public
 (20-seater)         36        674               0.86            23,832       1,273              23,590           36
 School
 (12-
 seater*)            157      1,412           1.65               10,540       1,172              49,420          33
 TOTAL              8,694     10,587        6.66                 767          629               238,883          28


Based on the assessment of the above, the Efficiency of the project would have been assessed to
have been Satisfactory. However in light of the total implementation delay of about two and a
half years, the rating for efficiency is slightly downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory.


  Attachment 1. Assumptions and Methodology Applied to Transform Investment
                             Costs to 2004 Prices.

Attachment A1. Macroeconomic Indicators. Inflation and Exchange Rate

                     2,004    2,005       2,006         2,007      2,008    2,009        2,010        2,011      2,012
 Annual inflation    18.20%   15.50%      11.70%        10.70%     16.50%   19.30%       10.75%       8.80%      8.73%
 Adjustment
 Factor 2004=100     1.00     1.16        1.29          1.43       1.66     1.98         2.20         2.60       2.39
 Exchange rate       0.89     0.90        0.95          0.96       0.92     1.05         1.49         1.61       1.45
 Devaluation                  1.7%        5.6%          1.1%       -4.2%    14.1%        41.9%        11.0%      -2.7%
 Adjustment
 factor
 (2004=100)          1.00     1.02        1.07          1.08       1.04     1.19         1.68         1.82       1.64




                                                                                                                       46
Attachment A2. Investment Costs (Prices of Each year)

                           Total    2,004   2,005       2,006       2,007      2,008       2,009       2,010       2,011   2,012
  % Implementation                  0%      0%          5%          10%        35%         50%         65%         75%     100%
  Annual
 implementation                     0%      0%          5%          5%         25%         15%         15%         10%     25%
  Investment cost (000
 USD)                      20,644   -       -           1,020       1,020      5,100       3,060       3,060       2,040   5,100
 Composition
   Foreign costs (000
 USD)                      1,383    -       691.50      692         -          -           -           -           -       -
   Local Costs (000
 USD)                      19,261   -       -           963         963        4,815       2,889       2,889       1,926   4,815
   Total Costs ()))
 USD)                      20,644   -       692         1,655       963        4,815       2,889       2,889       1,926   4,815


Attachment A3. Investment Costs (2004 Prices)

                                         Total      2,005     2,006      2,007     2,008       2,009       2,010       2,011   2,012
 Domestic Component
  USD of each year (USD 000)             19,261     -         963        963       4,815       2,889       2,889       1,926   4,815
  In local currency of each year (000
 LC)                                     24,153     -         915        925       4,430       3,034       4,305       2,793   7,753
   In constant prices of 2004 (000 LC)   11,655     -         709        647       2,663       1,528       1,958       1,168   2,981
   In USD of 2004                        13,170     -         801        731       3,009       1,727       2,213       1,320   3,368
 Foreign component
   In USD of each year (USD 000)         1,383      692       692        -         -           -           -           -       -
  In USD del 2004                        1,324      680       644        -         -           -           -           -       -
  Domestic component (000 USD
 2004)                                   13,170     -         801        731       3,009       1,727       2,213       1,320   3,368
  Foreign component (000 USD 2004)       1,324      680       644        -         -           -           -           -       -
 Total costs (000 USD 2004)              14,494     680       1,445      731       3,009       1,727       2,213       1,320   3,368




                                                                                                                                   47
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                           Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Gerhard Tschannerl         Task Team Leader                  AFTU2 Task Team Leader
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Alex McPhail                                                 AFTU2 Technical (WSS)
                           Specialist
Charles Boakye             Senior Municipal Engineer         AFTU2 Technical (WSS)
Arthur Swatson             Water and Sanitation Specialist   AFTU2 Technical (WSS)
Karen Hudes                Senior Counsel                    LEGAF Senior Counsel
Isabelle Paris             Senior Environmental Specialist         Environmental
                                                             AFTS4
                                                                   Safeguards
Kofi Awanyo                Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC Procurement
Tsri Apronti               Procurement Specialist            AFTPC Procurement
                           Senior Financial Management             Financial
Fred Yankey                                                  AFTFM
                           Specialist                              Management
                           Sr. Natural Resource Management         Natural Resource
Edward Dwumfour                                              AFTS4
                           Specialist                              Management
Evelyn Awittor             Operations Officer - Health       AFTH2 Public Health
                           Public Sector Management                Public Sector
Smile Kwawukume                                              AFTPR
                           Specialist                              Management
Kofi Tsikata               Communications Officer            AFTPX Communications
Ernestina Attafuah         Sr. Program Assistant             AFTU2 Program Support
Charity Boafu-Portup hy    Team Assistant                    AFT10 Program Support
Supervision/ICR
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Ventura Bengoechea                                           AFTU2 Task Team Leader
                           Specialist
                           Senior Water and Sanitation             Primary ICR
Sanyu Lutalo                                                 AFTU2
                           Specialist                              Author
                                                                   Environmental
Sameer Akbar               Senior Environmental Specialist    ENV
                                                                   Safeguards
                                                                   Social
Beatrix Allah-Mensah       Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
                                                                   Development
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo      Lead Procurement Specialist       EAPPR Procurement
Charity Boafo-Portuphy     Program Assistant                 AFCW1 Program Support
Charles K. Boakye          Consultant                        AFTUW
John A. Boyle              Consultant                        AFTWR
Samuel Bruce-Smith         Consultant                        AFTDE
Peter Cohen                Consultant                        MNSUR
                           Lead Social Development
Maria Concepcion J. Cruz                                     AFTCS Social Safeguards
                           Specialist
Robert Wallace DeGraft-                                              Financial
                           Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Hanson                                                               Management
                           Senior Water & Sanitation
Ousseynou Diop                                               TWIAF Water & Sanitation
                           Specialist

                                                                                      48
Maya El-Azzazi             Program Assistant                   MNSSD Program Support
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala     Sector Manager, Water               AFTWR Manager
                           Lead Social Development                   Social
Zarafshan H. Khawaja                                           AFTCS
                           Specialist                                Development
Seth Larmie                Consultant                          AFTEN
                                                                     Environmental
Wolfhart Pohl              Senior Environmental Specialist     ECSS3
                                                                     Safeguards
                                                                     Environmental
Gifty Sarfo-Mensah         Temporary                           AFCW1
                                                                     Safeguards
                                                                     Environmental
Harvey D. Van Veldhuizen   Lead Environmental Specialist       MIGEP
                                                                     Safeguards
                                                                     Financial
                           Seniorr Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                               AFTFM Management
                           Specialist
Olivia Nana Esi Ahlijah    Consultant                          AFTUW

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                          0.23                       22.80
  FY04                                         19.47                      145.85
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                           Total:                                         168.65
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                         35.28                      117.32
  FY06                                         43.44                      129.40
  FY07                                         31.27                      126.25
  FY08                                         50.50                      181.96
                           Total:                                         554.93




                                                                                         49
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Objectives of Beneficiary Assessment (BA): The objective of the BA was to determine
the extent to which the project has impacted, improved or changed the living conditions
of the intended beneficiaries and to obtain critical feedback on how such interventions
can be improved in the future.

Scope and Methodology: The BA was conducted by independent consultants
commissioned by the MLGRD in April and May 2013 to assess the extent to which the
project achieved desired development outcomes among intended beneficiaries and to
obtain critical feedback on how such interventions can be improved in the future. The BA
was split into three contracts focusing on different aspects: Drainage and Community
Upgrading; Sanitation and Waste Management; and Institutional Strengthening. The
respondents represented various stakeholders, including beneficiaries in communities, the
project officers and officers from the municipal assemblies who supervised the
constructional work and were part of the conceptualization, planning, design and
implementation of the project, and other stakeholders. The BA considered samples of
various beneficiary groups at the MA and community levels.

The core techniques of BA employed were: (a) Conversational interviewing among
representative groups of key stakeholders (intended beneficiaries, contractors, NGOs,
government officials); (b) Focus group discussion, particularly with intended
beneficiaries; c) participant observation; and d) Institutional Assessment. The use of in-
depth probing and qualitative techniques complemented the process of assessments
especially where it is difficult to obtain a statistically significant size. However, samples
allowed for meaningful cross-tabulation and of sufficient size to be useful for decision-
making. Samples were representative of both numbers of people reached and numbers of
subprojects funded. Stratification by gender, ethnicity (where relevant), project type
(storm drain, and community upgrading etc.), and MMA. A summary of the main
findings is presented below.

a) Drainage Component: Feedback for this aspect of the BA was largely qualitative.
   Respondent’s views suggest that the project has significantly contributed to its longer
   term goal by drastically reducing flooding. According to the respondents, major
   project deliverables and outcomes were achieved with respect to the storm drainage.
   Major drains such as the Mataheko and Onyasia drains have been constructed and
   lined to significantly reduce frequency, severity, and duration of flooding in these
   low-lying areas.

b) Community Upgrading: The BA findings highlighted improvements in community
   and neighborhood security through the provision of street lights and access roads to
   hitherto inaccessible communities. Beneficiaries confirmed that project interventions
   have inadvertently resulted in improved sanitation, hygienic conditions and public
   health, appreciation of land values, promotion of urban renewal and appreciation of
   frontage properties, improved access to basic services like water, provision of an all-



                                                                                          50
    weather reliability road which will make possible smooth transportation all-year-
    round.

The BA has recommended that the following key aspects be incorporated into future
project planning, development and implementation in Ghana;

•   There must be a systematic, consistent, direct government policy intervention for the
    development of many such projects. This must as a matter of urgency become a
    national policy framework within the nation’s development agenda pursued by all
    successive governments.
•   The sustainability of the project requires a positive lifestyle and attitude from the
    beneficiaries relating to the maintenance of such facilities. To this end, sensitization
    programs aimed at educating the people to adapt a maintenance culture as well as
    avoid throwing filth/ rubbish into the drains as well as littering the streets. A holistic
    approach to ensure that all other amenities such as water, electricity, telephones and
    street lights are constantly in good working condition is required. In the long term, it
    would be recommended that all drains be closed. This is a rather expensive request
    but inevitable due to the lifestyle of the Ghanaian as well as for the sustenance of
    such projects.

Overall Relevance, Efficiency, and Sustainability of Drainage and community
Infrastructure Upgrading

Relevance: According to the respondents, the project was a good idea and was justified
given previous perennial floods in these low-lying areas resulting in loss of lives and
property. Accessibility to these communities has hitherto been grossly hindered by poor
road network and infrastructure, poor sanitation, poor or low neighborhood safety.

Effectiveness: According to respondents, the project has been largely effective in that
planned results have been achieved for both drainage and community infrastructure
upgrading.
Efficiency: According to the respondents and as per the Consultants findings, the project
has been highly efficient since resources have been judiciously used and within budget.
Where there have been variations and additional works, extra funds were voted for and
made available to complete the project.
Impact: Respondent’s views suggest that the project has significantly contributed to its
longer term goal by drastically reducing flooding. Though the flooding has not been
entirely eliminated in these low-lying areas, its severity has radically been reduced with
channels or storm drains provided for the flood waters to cede within the shortest possible
time. Community and neighborhood security has also been greatly improved through the
provision of street lights and access roads to hitherto inaccessible communities. These
interventions have inadvertently resulted in improved sanitation, hygienic conditions and
public health, appreciation of land values, promotion of urban renewal and appreciation
of frontage properties, improved access to basic services like water, provision of an all-
weather reliability road which will make possible smooth transportation all-year-round.

                                                                                           51
Sustainability: According the BA, the outcomes of the project are only sustainable if the
project beneficiaries adopt a positive lifestyle and avoid the current indiscriminate
practice of dumping waste in the drains resulting in blockages inhibiting the flow of flood
waters. These negative practices have serious repercussions for the project outcome. At
the moment, some of the drains visited are filled with refuse resulting in stagnant water
eventually becoming the breeding ground for mosquitoes and also causing the outbreak
of epidemics such as malaria and cholera. Additionally, most of the traffic lights installed
to improve safety and security are malfunctioning. It is the considered view of the
Consultant as well as the respondents that, a thorough and pragmatic policy and
maintenance approach be adopted to address these challenges to derive the outmost
impart out of the project.
c) Sanitation Component: The BA revealed that household latrine coverage increased
   significantly in the villages where interventions had taken place, and that the impact
   of the improved sanitation at the household level was positive. Most of the
   respondents (46.7%) said they had received improvements in health and 38.3 percent
   in improved environmental sanitation, while 2.5 percent benefitted from enhanced
   capacity. The sanitation and solid waste components have made a significant
   contribution to the assimilation of positive hygiene and sanitation practices among the
   participating MAs.. The reduced dependence on the bush is a positive outcome of the
   improved sanitation. There was significant interaction with local authorities. The
   involvement of the local partners throughout implementation is expected to foster
   certain follow up, although limitations in resources may have impeded sufficient in-
   depth training for the beneficiaries. According to the BA, the success of the project
   clearly demonstrates that an effective team, with appropriate planning, can achieve
   excellent results. It recommended that the use of participatory methods should be
   enhanced, with decision making vested in the community.

Sanitation benefits of the project

BENEFITS                                 MALE              FEMALE          TOTAL
                                         Freq      %       Freq %          Freq %
Accessibility to toilet facility                           5    2.1        5    2.1
Enhance capacity                         2         0.8     4    1.7        6    2.5
Improved environmental sanitation        40        16.7    52   21.7       92   38.3
Improved health                          42        17.5    70   29.2       112  46.7
Improved income                          3         1.3     1    0.4        4    1.7
Prevent the children from going far      2         0.8     2    0.8        4    1.7
Reduce water problem in the area                           2    0.8        2    0.8
Nothing                                  1         0.4     3    1.3        4    1.7
No response                              3         1.3     8    3.3        11   4.6
Total                                    93        38.8    147  61.3       240  100
Source:         BA Field Data

The BA noted that characteristics of the household latrines respond in varying degrees to
household demand. The latrines, while being close to the household and offering privacy
                                                                                         52
lacked adequate ventilation. The participatory approach has both contributed to greatly
increased adoption of appropriate hygiene and sanitation practices. The over subscription
for household latrine is a testimony of the desire of the average Ghanaian household to
own a toilet facility.

Ownership of Household Latrine before and after the project: The BA revealed that before
the UESP II intervention only few households possessed latrines. However, after the
project’s implementation, most (78.8%) of the respondents affirmed that they owned
household latrine in their houses. All respondents had access to public latrines and 94.2%
of respondents attest to the fact that schools within the community have access to school
latrines after the project implementation. During interviews the main advantages of the
new latrines were expressed as privacy, convenience and safety.

Access to latrines before and after the project

Response          Household latrines               Public latrines     School Latrine
                Before          After             Before       After   Before     After
                %               %                  %            %      %          %
Yes             34.2            78.8              86.7         100     61.3       94.2
No              65.8            21.3              13.3         0       38.8       5.8
Total           100             100               100          100     100        100
Source:        Field Data

Findings related to choice of toilet technology

•   While the choice of Aqua Privy is the best in Tamale, there does not appear to be a
    clear strategy to develop capacity of local artisans to promote the construction of the
    household latrines.

•   The design of latrines used by the education component requires water for flushing
    the toilets. In the schools visited in KMA and STMA, provision is made for water
    tanks. However, there was no water in the tanks either for flushing, or for anal or
    hand washing. Only one school indicated that they had a system for providing regular
    water for the latrine and had soap in the latrine. In most schools visited the latrines
    were locked. This problem of lack of water for the school toilet was also confirmed at
    the focus group discussion (FGD) with opinion leaders and in the communities.

•   School management also complained of their inability to use the facility because of
    the lack of water. This problem has been compounded by the directive from the
    Ghana Education Service to school not to levy parent for utility services.

•   The improved access to sanitation and the potential for improvement to
    environmental sanitation in communities will create the conditions for improved
    health. The table below on access to latrines before and after the project indicates
    clearly marked improvement.

                                                                                          53
Suggestions for Improvement of future sanitation projects: In future projects, many of the
respondents (37.9%) suggested effective communication between stakeholders and
beneficiaries, 25.4 suggested that facilities be expanded and teachers’ toilet separated
from students, 8.8 percent suggested quality supervision and better site selection and 7.5
percent suggested provision of roads, electricity, markets and community center.

Factors that will affect the sustainability of sanitation outcomes: According to the
respondents, the factors that will affect the sustainability of the project included lack of
maintenance (68.6%), limited resources (18.8%), limited capacity (10.6%) and lack of
Supervision (2%).

d) Solid Waste Component

The BA confirmed that methods of waste disposal in beneficiary communities have
improved after the implementation of the project as shown below. This situation has
significantly improved after the implementation of the project.

Method of Solid Waste Disposal
REFUSE              DISPOSAL Before the project                   After the project
METHOD                         Total number of          %         Total number of      %
                               respondents                        respondents
Burn                           76                       31.7      68                   28.3
Burry it                       3                        1.3       9                    3.8
House to house collection      7                        2.9       17                   7.1
Into water logged areas        6                        2.5
Skip                           42                       17.5      125                  52.1
Solid waste dump               48                       20
Throw away into bush           58                       24.2      21                   8.8
Total                          240                      100       240                  100.0

Availability of private waste collectors: Almost two-third (2/3) of the respondents
responded that there were private waste collectors in their communities whilst the
remaining indicated otherwise.

Regularity of refuse collection before and after the project: For many of the respondents
(48.8%) refuse was not collected at all before the project, for 14.2 percent, it was very
irregular, 9.6 percent had their refuse collected once weekly, 5 percent had theirs
collected when it was full. After the project, 27.5% of household refuse is collected once
a week compared to only 9.6% before that project. 10.4% of respondents’ solid waste is
collected twice a week compared to only 3.3% of respondents before the project. 7.9
percent of household refuse is collected thrice a week compared to 4.6% before the
project. It is worth noting that 37.1 percent of respondents still did not have their refuse
collected at all.

                                                                                         54
Total volume of solid waste collected annually: Over the period of the project, all the
Metropolitan Assemblies have consistent increased the volume of waste collected. As can
be seen in the table below, in STMA, with the exception of 2010, when the volume of
refuse collected decreased compared to the previous year 2009. Similarly in the TaMA,
the volume of refuse collected has consistently increased with the exception of 2010
when the collection was lower than the previous year. On average 71%, 77% and 87% of
total solid waste generated between 2008 and 2012 has been collected in Tamale,
Sekondi/Takoradi and Kumasi Metropolitan Assemblies.

Changes observed in the communities after the project
CHANGES                                    MALE                 FEMALE          TOTAL
                                           Freq         %       Freq %          Freq %
Help in checking truancy                   2            0.8                     2    0.8
Improve environmental sanitation           61           25.4    98      40.8    159 66.3
Improved health                            1            0.4     1       0.4     2    0.8
Increased corporation among residents      1            0.4     1       0.4     2    0.8
No Change                                  6            2.5     12      5       18   7.5
Positive attitude towards environmental 18              7.5     31      12.9    49   20.4
sanitation
saves time from going to a far place                            3       1.3     3       1.3
The sanitation situation getting worse     4            1.7     1       0.4     5       2.1
Total                                      93           38.8    147     61.3    240     100
Source: BA Field Data

Waste Management Equipment of the Metropolitan Assemblies: The project procured
several pieces of equipment for the Metropolitan Assemblies to facilitate their work. The
table below is the list of equipment acquired for the Assemblies. At the time of the BA
most equipment are in good condition and operating well.

Best Practices: The assessment team identified what they considered “best practices?
from the project, some of which are outlined below:

•   The empowerment of communities to make decisions over service provision and the
    use of participatory techniques greatly enhances the effectiveness of the project in the
    communities.

•   Local NGO input is an essential prerequisite to effective implementation, where the
    project team has not had a long-term presence on the ground. The practice of working
    with partners has ensured the achievement of construction objectives within the time
    frame of the extension and will leave additional community development capacity in
    the Metropolitan Assemblies.

•   Strong responsive and effective project management is vital to ensure timely project
    implementation.
                                                                                         55
•   The adoption and improvement of appropriate latrine facilities already understood
    and being used by the communities permits more rapid selection of options, easier
    achievement of commitment, and a greater likelihood of sustainable operation and
    maintenance.

Other BA findings

The BA also noted the following findings concerning project implementation.
• Co-operation with Local Non-Governmental Organizations (LNGO): The project
   included co-operation with local stakeholders and gave them a significant role in
   implementation. The rapid intervention, the in-depth local knowledge and the quality
   of the work completed by the local partners demonstrates the advantages of working
   with local institutions who can make effective use of capacity. The capacity building
   undertaken by the project was focused on the objective of meeting the programmed
   outputs.

•   Community members: The LNGO teams working in the communities have sensitized
    beneficiaries on sanitation and hygiene. The work of these LNGO has been limited in
    time and focused mainly on physical outputs. An opportunity for longer term follow
    up would reinforce the advances already achieved and this is a role for the local
    partners. In the communities where project activities have taken place, the residents
    demonstrated knowledge of hygiene practices, and linkages between sanitation, water
    and disease. Further training activities would reinforce the limited hygiene messages
    that were communicated to community members. The contract with local NGOs did
    not included hygiene education. This is partly a result of the programme design,
    which focused on the physical construction of infrastructure.

•   Local authorities: The project design included a high level of co-operation with local
    authorities; therefore, over the years there has been considerable co-operation with
    the Metropolitan Assemblies, the staff of waste management department and other
    stakeholders.

Lessons Learned on Sanitation aspects

As a result of the analysis of this project, the valuable experience gained by the project
implementation team, the consultants would like to offer the following “lessons learned?.

Sanitation

    •   Although availability of latrines has increased schools indicated that they still had
        to buy water from household to flush the toilet. An effective school latrine
        depends on there being regular water flow.

    •   Although there is a great respect for cleanliness and washing, the availability of
        soap or detergent for hand washing appears to be limited. The use of soap (or
        another cleansing agent) is important for effective hand washing.

                                                                                          56
   •   It would be useful to consider the possibility of improving the latrine design to
       respond to the characteristics of an adequately ventilated latrine.
Project design and implementation

   •   A strong, capable and focused management is key to the success of the project

   •   The development of a cohesive team at the level of the project implementation is
       an effective way of ensuring that resources are oriented to the achievement of
       objectives.

   •   Extensive capacity exists for project implementation through enhancing local
       NGO community development skills.
Technology choices

   •   The household selection criteria did place specific emphasis on the needy
       household in recognition of the vulnerability of these groups. However, it is very
       important to ensure that the selection criteria effectively take into account these
       needy groups in practice.

   •   Although the construction of infrastructure can be implemented with relative
       speed, a change in community management practices, hygiene and sanitation
       habits take much longer. It is important to ensure that sufficient time is given to
       the implementation of effective community empowerment, health, sanitation and
       hygiene training.
Further opportunities
• The Private waste collectors have demonstrated their ability to undertake waste
   collection. Future interventions should aim at developing their capacity to
   successfully implement complementary aspects of waste collection.
• The use of participatory methods encourages sustainability, a sense of “ownership?
   and effective community management.
• There is a great potential for improving household management of household hygiene
   practices.

Effectiveness: Although the construction of household latrines and other infrastructure
will have been completed within the period, the communities have not received all the
necessary training and orientation, in order to ensure adequate community management
of the infrastructure, particularly in the field of operation and management (O&M) of
sanitation facilities. The local NGO’s will not be able to complete hygiene and sanitation
promotion, without additional resources.

Impact: Impact is related to the achievement of the overall project objective. The overall
objective considers “access to increased quantity of acceptable sanitation facilities. On
the face of the specific assessment of the project, based purely on what has been done,
access to sanitation has increased. However one factor which affects the impact is health
and hygiene education. This key aspect for sustainable sanitation delivery cannot be
                                                                                       57
addressed with a limited “hygiene and sanitation infrastructure. It is not going to be
possible to guarantee effective O&M or the sustainable application of adequate hygiene
and sanitation practices.

e) Institutional Strengthening Component

The overall objective of the BA for this component was to assess the impact of project
activities. The specific objectives were to: (a) Establish baseline information for all sector
areas and beneficiaries; (b) Assess the relevance of the design and the corresponding
results of the implementation of the ISC; (c) Assess the results of the ISC in terms of
training and support to the MLGRD and MAs as well as the sub-sector investments; (d)
Assess the quality and impact of the training programs on beneficiaries; e) Assess the
quality and outcome of investments in terms of efficiency and changes in beneficiary
lives; (f) Identify any unintended but critical outcome of the ISC for beneficiaries; and (g)
Make recommendations for improving the ISC in future project design. To achieve the
objectives of the BA survey, the consulting team undertook intensive fieldwork and desk
review of both primary and secondary data. The primary data was collected using a self
administered questionnaire and an interview schedule. The survey targeted three
categories of beneficiaries in Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolitan Assembly (STMA) and
Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA) namely; the UESP II project office coordinator
(or a representative); Heads of beneficiary departments; and individual staff of the
beneficiary departments. The fieldwork exercise started with a day’s reconnaissance visit

The main findings of the BA survey were as follows:

•   At least 10 departments each of the MAs benefited from the ISC of the UESP II. This
    was in the form of equipment (including vehicles) supply; office renovation or
    refurbishment, and staff training.
•   While the project largely yielded the intended results and outcomes, it encountered
    some implementation challenges in terms of some workers’ complaints on special
    allowances paid to the UESP II project office staff recruited from the MAs to manage
    the project, and prominence placed on the Waste Management Department and
    Environmental Health Unit;
•   The investments in the priority areas of waste management and environmental health
    were relevant and thoughtful since they could have multiplier effects in terms
    improved health and wellness of the people of the beneficiary MAs in the long term.
    Cumulatively, 802 employees in STMA and 610 employees in KMA benefited from
    several forms of training courses organized under the ISC. Training was also
    extended to some employees from relevant stakeholder departments such as the
    Ghana Health Service and Ghana Education Service, particularly on the Public
    Health; Training provided largely enhanced work output of staff. However, there
    were complaints of the difficulty of attending multiple courses run at so short a time,
    thereby hampering the quality of learning;
•   The WMD of STMA received equipment such as CAT Compactor, CAT Crawler,
    information vans, motor bicycles and refuse containers that has really improved solid


                                                                                           58
    and liquid waste management as a result of the construction of sanitary engineered
    landfill site;
•   MAs were closely working in partnership with private waste collection operators in
    the area of solid waste management.
•   KMA has functional Drainage Maintenance Unit due to the support received from the
    project.
•   Despite the huge investment made under the UESP II there appeared to be poor
    attitude of top management of both MAs towards waste management. The possibility
    of transforming waste as useful resource opportunity has not been taken seriously by
    management.
•   Implementation challenges that faced the some MAs related to procurement
    processes. The practice of the ‘lowest bidder wins’ principle invariably led to the
    supply of poor quality of goods and services by some consultants and contractors.
    Funds from Nordic Development Fund (NDF) for recondition of waste management
    equipment could not be accessed due to procurement evaluation difficulties.

According to the BA, the main lessons and outcomes were:

    •   Staff of the MAs acquired new knowledge and skills through training;
    •   The project officials acquired competence in procurement procedures.
    •   Some members of staff learnt to appreciate better use of public funds;
    •   The project encouraged public-private partnership;
    •   The promoted the involvement of stakeholders in project implementation;
    •   Some trained personnel were lost to the MAs due to retirement, transfers and
        poaching. Such situation leads to loss of project or institutional memory and
        therefore, has negative implications for project sustainability;
    •   Provision of equipment and office renovation enhanced service delivery capacity
        of the MAs.

In conclusion, even though the ISC under the UESP II has had mixed results, the
outcomes are largely positive. Future project design should take into account lessons
learnt and detailed recommendations made in the main document. All key stakeholders
should work as a team and perform their respective roles and duties to ensure effective
and efficient service delivery by the MAs.




                                                                                     59
              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A Stakeholder Workshop was not conducted for the project.




                                                                 60
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

           Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT – BORROWERS COMMENTS

1. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design
The overall project development objective is to improve urban living conditions in regard
to environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste
management in a sustainable fashion, with special emphasis on the poor. This objective
was in line with government’s policy at developing and maintaining a clean safe and
pleasant physical environment and promoting the social economic and physical well
being of all Ghanaians.

2. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
The project objectives were overall, generally achieved. The achievement of the storm
drainage, sanitation and community upgrading components were generally good. The
institutional strengthening component commenced two years into the project and was
therefore unable to achieve fully the desired impact. It was however satisfactory. The
waste management component was mainly the cause of the project extensions attributed
mainly to safeguard issues. The desired objectives were however achieved at the end of
the project.

It should be noted that the project during its implementation provided thousands of jobs
for Ghanaians in several sectors of the economy. This was not one of the project
objectives but is worth mentioning since job creation became one of governments
priorities during implementation of the project. The design and implementation of the
project was such that over 200 contracts were awarded for the provision of consulting
services, construction works and procurement of goods. This created local jobs in all the
five project cities.

In terms of value for money the project has been extremely successful. This should be the
objective of all projects but under UESP II this stands out. The output of the project
comprised of i) infrastructure upgrading of 12 communities in the five project cities, ii)
the construction of two landfills, iii) the rehabilitation and closure of four refuse dumps,
iii) the reconstruction and concrete lining of over 9 km of drains and the channel
improvement including dredging of over 5 kilometers of drain, iv) the construction of
over 8500 household toilets, 36 public toilets and 157 school toilets in the five project
cities, v) the procurement of 190 waste containers, and vi) the procurement of two landfill
compactors, two water tankers, two payloaders and two tipper trucks for the two landfills.
All the above has been at a total cost less than US$70 million (i.e. IDA < US$62 million).

3.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

     a) Project period for Waste Management Component
     The project period of five years for the construction of facilities under the waste
     management component such as landfills, septage facilities etc was inadequate. The

                                                                                         61
safeguard issues which usually require extensive environmental and social impact
assessments, public forums, the preparation of environmental management and
monitoring plans, resettlement action plans, etc. is extremely time consuming and
involves the selection of consultants who will undertake these services. All these
activities are to be completed before the preparation of detailed engineering designs
and the commencement of construction and could involve the selection of as many as
three or four different consultants. This requires approximately two additional years.
Under UESP I which had similar components the project had to be extended due to
the same reasons.

b) Credit Extensions
The project had three extensions, two of which were 5 and 7 months respectively. The
short duration of the extensions did not allow for the intended impact of the
extensions. Activities which could have been started and completed within the 12
months period were not even started due to the few months left after each extension.

c) Restructuring of Project
Restructuring of a project is not always a sign of an unsatisfactory project, but this
could be undertaken to realign a project due to changing circumstances on the ground.
The Bank has been the main culprit and should avoid using the need to restructure a
project as a way of implying that the project is unsatisfactory. As of now, it is not
known if the project in Bank terms was restructured.

d) Implementation by Metropolitan /Municipal Assemblies (MMAs)
The project design with respect to its implementation arrangement was different from
that of UESP I. Since sustainability under UESP I was considered unsatisfactory it
was decided to correct this by allowing project implementation to be carried out by
the project assemblies. This involved the selection of consultants, procurement of
works, the signing of all consultancy and work contracts and the contract
management of the four infrastructure components by the project assemblies.
Although this ensured some form of sustainability it had the effect of delaying
implementation. This was the cause of several avoidable delays in the implementation
of the project. In spite of several hours of on-the- job coaching and training of staff
the MMAs delays occurred in most cases during the implementation of the various
components. The PCU had to take up the implementation of the MMAs components
on several occasions in order to move the project forward.

e) Introduction of the Public Procurement Act in 2004
The introduction of the Public Procurement Act in 2004 was a major cause of delay in
the implementation of the project throughout the year 2005 and part of 2006. The
setting up of Entity Tender Committees and Tender Review Boards at the local
government level, regional level and the Ministry level was a major cause of the
delays.




                                                                                    62
4. Sustainability
Maintenance of infrastructure has been a challenge to most institutions in the country and
the MMAs are no exception. Due to project design, ownership of the various
infrastructures has been established and the stakeholders are in no doubt about those
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facilities constructed under the
project. To have really effective sustainable system attitudes need to change.

5. Bank and Borrower Performance
The inability of the Government together with the Bank to develop the Kwabenya landfill
has been the projects low point. Kwabenya notwithstanding, the Government and Bank’s
performance can be considered as satisfactory.

The design of the M& E results indicators was not the best and could have been improved.
This was not noticed until well into the project implementation.

6. Lessons Learnt
The events that led to the discontinuation of the Kwabenya landfill can be considered as
lessons to learn by all.

The delay in land acquisition including compensation payment on the Kwabenya landfill
by government caused the landowners to reoccupy the land and resell most of it.
Governments’ intention to re-enter the site was met with resistance from the inhabitants.
The Banks reliance on information received from the people of Kwabenya, whose main
objective was to stop the development of the landfill (NIMBY syndrome) and not
because government was driving them away from their homes and livelihood, were some
of the main reasons for the challenges encountered on Kwabenya. This prolonged the
necessary studies and eventually caused the Accra Mayor to announce its discontinuation.




                                                                                       63
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments were not provided by other co-financiers.




                                                                     64
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 27884-GH, April 5, 2004.

2. Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana and IDA, Credit
   Number 3889-GH, August 13, 2004

3. Grant Agreements between MLGRD and MMAs.

4. Project Papers on Restructuring.

5. DCA Amendment letters

6. Project Supervision Aides-Memoires

7. Project Implementation Status and Results Reports.

8. Project Financial Reports

9. Project Procurement Plans

10. Beneficiary Assessment Report for the Institutional Strengthening Component,
    prepared by J.V, Mensah, Institute for Development Studies/ and MLGRD, April
    2013

11. Beneficiary Assessment Report for the Sanitation and Waste Management
    Component, prepared by Alice Addai-Yeboah / MLGRD, April, 2013

12. Beneficiary Assessment Report for the Drainage and Community Upgrade
    Component, prepared by Environ Engineering and Management Consult/ MLGRD,
    May 2013

13. Other Sources:

   •   Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation. 2012 update. UNICEF, WHO, March
       2012.
   •   Human Development Report 2006. United Nations Development Programme
       (UNDP), 2006.




                                                                                   65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 40109
                                                                       2° W                                                                                                    0°                                                                                    2° E
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                             Tenkodogo
                                                 B U R K I NA FAS O

                                    Hamale                                   WalewaleTumu                     Navrongo
  To
 Bobo-                                                                                                                              UPPER EAST
Diolasso                                                                                                                    Bolgatanga                                                                                                     GHANA
                                                                                                                                                                           Nakpanduri

                                                    UPPER WEST
                                                                                                                                                    Walewale                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dapaong
                                                                        Ko
                                                                             lpa
                                  Black Vo




                                                                                wn
                                                    Wa
         10° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10° N
                                                                                                                                                                           Gushiegu
                                    lta




                                                                                                                         e Volta
                                                                                                                  h it                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                              W                                                                                                                                   Djougou
                                                                                            N O R T H E R N                                                                         Yendi
              To                                                                                                                    Tamale
        Ferkéssédougou
                                                       Sawla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BENIN

                                                    Bole                                                                  Fufulsu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To




                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                    ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Djougou




                                                                                                                                                                                              Oti
                                                                                                                                                                    D
                  C ÔT E                                                                                                                                                Nakpayili
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T O GO
               D ' IV O IRE                                                          a
                                                                                   ol t
                                                                         B l a ck V




                                                                                                                                                     Salaga

                    To
                   Bouna
                                                                                                                                                              Makongo
                                                                                                                                                   Yeji
                                                                                                 Kintampo                                                                                    Dambai
         8° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8° N
                                                                                            Jema
                                                                                                                                                                                     V O LTA
                                                B R O N G - A H A F O                                                      Atebubu
                                                                                                                                                              Kwadwokurom
                                                     Tain                                               ru
                                                               Techiman
                                                                                                    P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                Berekum                                                                                                                                                                                Sokodé

                                                Sunyani                                                                                                                                     Mount Afadjato
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (880 m)
                                                              K w
                                                                                                                                                                                                    go Ranges




                                                                                                                                      Af r a
                                                                  a h                                                                          m                         Lake        Kpandu
                           Bi a
To Agboville




                                                                      u                                                                                                  Volta                                                                   To
                                                                                                    P l                                                                                                                                        Abomey
                                     Goaso                                                              a t    Agogo
                                                                                                            e a
                                                                                                                u
                                                                                          Kumasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                 a p i m - To




                                                            Bibiani
                                                                                                                                                          EASTERN
                Krokosue                                                     ASHANTI
                                                                                                                     Anu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Porto-
                                                                                                                                                   im
                                                                                                                         m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Novo
                                                                                                                                             Bi r




                                                                     Diaso        Obuasi
                                         Tano




                                                                                                                                      Kade                                                                      Vol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ta
                                                                                                                                                                                             kw




                                                                                                                                                                         Koforidua                                                     Aflao
         6° N                                                                               Dunkwa                             Oda                                                           A                                                                       6° N
                           W E S T ER N
                     Enchi
                                                                                                                                                                            GREATER                                                                                 2° E
                                                                                                                                                                            ACCRA
To Abidjan




                                                                                                                                                                                     Tema
                                                                                                     Twifo Praso
                                                                                                                                                              ACCRA                                                                 GHANA
                                                          Prestea
                                                                                                                   CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SECOND URBAN
                                                                                             P ra




                                                                             Tarkwa                                                                       Winneba
                                                               a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                            obr
                                                           Ank




  Newtown
                                                                                                                            Cape Coast
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SANITATION PROJECT
   This map was produced by                                                                    Sekondi                                                                                                                   METROPOLITAN AND MUNICIPAL ASSEMBLIES
   the Map Design Unit of The
   World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                       Axim                                 Takoradi                          Gulf of G uinea                                                                            (MMAs) IN PROJECT
   colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                                                             CITIES AND TOWNS                    MAIN ROADS
   any other information shown
   on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                             0      20         40           60       80 Kilometers                                                                       REGION CAPITALS                     RAILROADS
   the part of The World Bank
   Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                    REGION
   legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOUNDARIES
   or any endorsement or                                                                     0               20               40             60 Miles                                                                    RIVERS
   acceptance of such                              GSDPM                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL
   boundaries.                                     Map Design Unit     2° W                                                                                                    0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JUNE 2013
