                                              Report No.: 105746




           PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   GHANA

      SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
                     (IDA CR-38890-GH)

     SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
                     SECOND PHASE OF APL
           (IDA CR-39710-GH, CR-39711-GH, CR-45660-GH)



                               May 19, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development Unit
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents

Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedi

Year                 US$           Cedi
2004                 1.00          9010
2005                 1.00          9122
2006                 1.00          9222
2007*                1.00          0.960
2008                 1.00          1.263
2009                 1.00          1.431
2010                 1.00          1.488
2011                 1.00          1.639
2012                 1.00          1.902
2013                 1.00          2.365
2014                 1.00          3.205
2015                 1.00          3.825

*In July 2007, the New Ghana Cedi was introduced. It completely replaced the old Cedi
by December of 2008. The New Ghana Cedi was worth 10,000 old Cedi at the time of its
introduction.


Fiscal Year: January - December

Government:          January 1 – December 31
                                                        i



Abbreviations
APL               Adaptable Program Loan
BA                Beneficiary Assessments
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CPS               Country Partnership Strategy
CWSA              Community Water and Sanitation Agency
CWSP              Community Water and Sanitation Program
DA                District Assemblies
DfID              Department for International Development
DWST              District Water and Sanitation Teams
EA                Environmental Assessment
ESMF              Environmental and Social Management Framework
EHU               Environmental Health Units
FM                Financial Management
ICR               Implementation Completion and results Report
IDA               International Development Agency
IEG               Independent Evaluation Group
ISC               Institutional Strengthening Component
MA                Municipal Assemblies
MDG               Millennium Development Goals
MLGRD             Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MMDA              Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies
MWH               Ministry of Works and Housing
MWRWH             Ministry of Water Resources, Works and Housing
O&M               Operations and Maintenance
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PDO               Project Development Objective
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
RAP               Resettlement Action Plan
RCC               Regional Coordinating Councils
RPF               Resettlement Policy Framework
RWST              Regional Water Supply Teams
SDG               Sustainable Development Goals
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
WATSAN            Water and Sanitation Committees
WSDB              Water and Sanitation Development Board




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                    :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector & Sustainable       :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Development
Manager, IEG, Sustainable Development                       :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                :   Ms. Kavita Mathur
                                                                             iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................................... iv
Preface .................................................................................................................................................. vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................................... ix
1. Country and Sector Context ............................................................................................................... 1
2. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project ............................................................................... 5
Objectives, Design, and Relevance ........................................................................................................ 5
Implementation ....................................................................................................................................... 8
Achievement of Objectives .................................................................................................................. 10
Efficiency ............................................................................................................................................. 18
Project Ratings ..................................................................................................................................... 19
Bank Performance ................................................................................................................................ 21
Borrower Performance ......................................................................................................................... 22
3. Small Towns and Villages Water Supply and Sanitation Project..................................................... 25
Objectives, Design, and Relevance ...................................................................................................... 25
Implementation ..................................................................................................................................... 28
Achievement of Objectives .................................................................................................................. 30
Efficiency ............................................................................................................................................. 35
Project Ratings ..................................................................................................................................... 36
Bank Performance ................................................................................................................................ 38
Borrower Performance ......................................................................................................................... 39
4. Lessons ............................................................................................................................................. 42
References ............................................................................................................................................ 43
Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................................. 44
Appendix B.: Locations Visited ........................................................................................................... 51
Appendix C. List of Persons Met ......................................................................................................... 53
Appendix D. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................................... 57
Appendix E. Safeguards – The Kwabenya Landfill ............................................................................. 59
Appendix F. Beneficiary and Technical Assessments......................................................................... 61
A. Second Urban Environmental Project ............................................................................................ 61
B. Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project ....................................................................... 65
                                                          iv




Principal Ratings
GHANA – SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
PROJECT

                                  ICR*                       ICR Review*                  PPAR
Outcome                   Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                           Significant                     Significant                    Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance           Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                  Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance



GHANA – SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT – SECOND
PHASE OF APL
                                     ICR*                       ICR Review*                     PPAR
Outcome                           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                            Moderate                       Moderate                       Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible World Bank department.
The ICR Review is an intermediate product by the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group that seeks to
independently verify the findings of the ICR.




   This report was prepared by Maha Armaly (consultant), who assessed the project in January/February 2016.
   The consultant was supervised by Kavita Mathur (TTL). The report was peer reviewed by Caroline van den
   Berg and panel reviewed by Ridley Nelson. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                     v



Key Staff Responsible
GHANA – SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
                                         Division Chief/
Project          Task Manager            Sector Director     Country Director
Appraisal      Gerhard Tschannerl        Inger Andersen       Mats Karlsson
Completion     Ventura Begoechea    Alexander E. Bakalian   Yusupha B. Crookes



GHANA – SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT – SECOND
PHASE OF APL
                                         Division Chief/
Project          Task Manager            Sector Director     Country Director
Appraisal          Paul Kriss            Inger Andersen       Mats Karlsson
Completion    Ventura Bengoechea    Junaid Kamal Ahmad         Ishac Diwan
                                                         vi




     IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20–25 percent of
the Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to
those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations;
those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to
generate important lessons.
     To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
     Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the
borrower for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers’
comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors. After an
assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.
Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally
is not applied to adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome:
High, Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of
supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii



Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the following two projects:

Ghana—Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project was approved on April 29, 2004,
and closed on June 30, 2012, after a two-year extension. The project was financed with an
International Development Association (IDA) Credit (Cr. 38890-GH) of Special Drawing
Rights (SDR) 41.6 million (US$62.0 million equivalent) signed on August 13, 2004.

Ghana—Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project was approved on July 27, 2004,
and closed on April 30, 2010, after a one-year extension. The project was financed with an
IDA credit (Cr. 39710-GH) in the amount of SDR 17.8 million (US$26 million equivalent)
signed on August 13, 2004. Additional Financing (Cr. 39711-GH) for SDR6.6 million
(US$10 million equivalent) was signed on August 8, 2007. A second additional financing
(Cr. 45660-GH) for SDR 10.2 million (US$ 15 equivalent) was signed on August 14, 2009.
Total credits amounted to SDR 34.6 million (US$51 million equivalent).

These two projects were selected for field assessment to contribute to the upcoming
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) water and sanitation sector evaluation planned for
fiscal year (FY) 17.

IEG visited Ghana from January 26 - February 5, 2016. The team visited four of the five
regions covered in the Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tema). For the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project,
the team visited three regions (Ashanti, Central, and Western) out of the six covered by the
project (Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Upper East, Upper West, Central, and Western Regions) and
six of the 73 towns.

In Accra, the IEG team met with officials from the central government including, the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) at the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and
the Community Water and Sanitation Agency at the Ministry of Water Resources, Works and
Housing. The team also met with Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies, and with
regional, district, and community water and sanitation management teams.

IEG acknowledges the attention and cooperation provided by local interlocutors and the
excellent planning and support provided by the PCU of the Second Urban Environmental
Sanitation Project as well as the staff of the local Metropolitan, Municipal and District
Assemblies; the Community Water and Sanitation Agency responsible for the
implementation of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project as well its regional offices,
the District and the Community Water and Sanitation Management Teams, and the World
Bank’s country office in Accra. A list of locations visited and the persons met by the IEG
team are included in Appendix C.

Following IEG procedures, the draft report was sent to government officials and agencies for
their reviews and comments but no comments were received.
                                              ix



Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) evaluates the development
effectiveness of the two projects in Ghana, namely: (i) the Second Urban Environmental
Sanitation Project, and (ii) the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project—in support
of the second phase of the Community Water and Sanitation Program.
The two projects were prepared simultaneously and approved within three months of each
other in 2004. The projects differed considerably in terms of the ambition of their respective
objectives and the complexity of the components. The Second Urban Environmental
Sanitation Project focused on sanitation (including drainage and solid waste) and included six
components. The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project focused mainly on
delivery of water in rural areas and included funding for sanitation. Additional financing
almost doubled the amount of financing available to the project.

Both projects were highly relevant to World Bank and government strategies and addressed
severe needs for upgrading of infrastructure and services. Both projects were follow up
projects and had complex institutional arrangements related to, at the time of the project
preparation and implementation, the new decentralized structure of government and multi-
layered institutional composition. The multiple objectives and complex components of the
Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project needed better preparation than it was
afforded, and as a result faced more difficult implementation, particularly related to
resettlement challenges. The results framework for both projects suffered deficiencies in
design leading to difficult and evidence-starved monitoring and evaluation. The Second
Urban Environmental Sanitation Project was able to overcome some of these difficulties with
the undertaking at the end of the project of three beneficiary assessments that evaluated the
technical, social, and institutional development accomplishments of the project. A
beneficiary and a technical assessment were undertaken for the Small Towns Water Supply
and Sanitation Project, but were not completed at the time the Implementation Completion
and Results Report was written.

Ghana – Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
The development objective of this project was: “to improve urban living conditions in Accra,
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale, and Tema in regard to environmental health, sanitation,
drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a sustainable fashion, with special
emphasis on the poor.” The project objectives were not revised. The objectives continue to be
highly relevant to the Government Policy on Urban Environmental Sanitation initiated in
December 2003 and updated in 2010, and to the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS August 20, 2013 for FY13-16), which affirm the importance of urban water and
sanitation services in Ghana’s development agenda. The objectives were reaffirmed in other
documents, including Ghana’s Medium-Term Development Policy Framework (2010-2013),
Poverty Reduction Strategy (2006-2009), Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda
(2010-2013), as well as Ghana’s Millennium Development Goals (MDG).
The project efficacy is rated substantial based on the stated planned and actual achievements
in terms of improving services in the sectors addressed by the project, with shortcomings in
                                                x


the achievement of the sustainability objective and less than robust evidence on poverty and
environmental health. The efficiency is rated modest because several components were
dropped indicating less benefits achieved. The overall outcome of the project is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. The risk to development outcome is rated Significant. Bank
Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Borrower Performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

Ghana—Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
The development objective of this project was: “to increase access to sustainable water
supply and sanitation services in small towns in six regions of the Borrower.” The project is
the second phase of an Adaptable Program Loan with the program objective to: “support the
Government of Ghana in reaching the Millennium Development Goals in water and
sanitation, which are to provide water supply and sanitation access to 72 percent and 56
percent of the rural population, respectively. The project objectives were not revised.
Additional financing was provided to include 50,000 additional beneficiaries from water
supply investments over the original number of 500,000 beneficiaries.
The project was prepared at the same time as the Second Urban Environmental Sanitation
Project above, and focuses on water and sanitation in small towns instead of larger urban
areas. The project objectives continue to be highly relevant government and Bank objectives
outlined in their strategic documents.

Efficacy is rated substantial because the project increased access to sustainable water supply
facilities, which represented about 85 percent of the investments and about 90 percent of
beneficiaries. On sanitation, access was increased but not in a sustainable manner as water
supply sector has a stronger institutional support than the sanitation sector. Efficiency is rated
modest due to high per capita costs. The overall outcome of the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The risk to development outcome is rated Significant. Bank Performance is
rated Moderately Satisfactory. Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
                                            xi



Lessons
  (a) For school toilets to be used in a sustained manner, an integrated hygiene
      education needs to be offered on a continuous basis. A strong hygiene education
      campaign was undertaken throughout Ghana prior and during the two projects.
      Discussions with authorities and visits to schools indicate that the emphasis on the
      implementation of the hygiene education program diminished due to lack of funds.
      Sustained provision of hygiene education (availability of information as well as soap
      and water near toilets) ensures incoming classes continue to learn and use safe
      hygiene practices.
  (b) The concept of Community Ownership and Management is not sufficient to
      ensure sustainability in an environment of weak community stewardship.
      Implementation of regulations, strong monitoring, education and enforcement are
      needed to assure a sustainable operation and maintenance of the facilities. In the case
      of the drainage component in the Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project, the
      communities resorted to old habits of dumping garbage in the rehabilitated drainage
      system. In the case of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project, communities
      surrounding the schools were using the toilets. In both cases, the behavior contributed
      to a faster demise of the infrastructure and increased the costs of operations and
      maintenance.
  (c) Stakeholder analysis and citizens engagement during project and facility design
      is important for assessing the willingness to pay for the services. In the case of the
      Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project, discussions with community
      water management teams indicated that they were facing competition from private
      operators who built, owned and operated their own facilities (as opposed to facilities
      being concessioned to private operators under the project) and were capable of
      providing good service at higher prices.
  (d) Changing the rules of the game for short-term political gains during
      implementation disrupts community involvement and sends the wrong signal to
      communities in terms of government intentions. In the case of the Small Towns
      Water and Sanitation Project, the decision to exempt communities from the 5 percent
      copayment requirement alienated those communities who made the contribution, and
      may increase resistance to payment of other obligations in hopes of further changes in
      government policies.




                                                          Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                          Director, IEGSP
                                                          Independent Evaluation Group
                                               1


1. Country and Sector Context
COUNTRY CONTEXT

1.1     Ghana is a stable nation with a good record of power changing hands peacefully.
Ghana is the world's second largest cocoa producer behind Ivory Coast, and Africa's biggest
gold miner after South Africa. It is one of the continent's fastest growing economies, and
newest oil producer. The country is the second most populous in West Africa after Nigeria,
and has maintained an increasing urbanization trend. As Ghana’s total population more than
doubled between 1984 and 2013, urban population growth outpaced rural population growth,
growing 4.4 percent annually. Over this period, Ghana’s urban population more than tripled,
rising from under 4 million to nearly 14 million people.

1.2     In July 2011, Ghana achieved the Bank’s per-capita income threshold for
classification as a Lower Middle Income Country. Ghana’s economy has been on a high
growth pattern for most of the last decade. The estimated national headcount poverty ratio
fell by 31.2 percent, from 52.6 percent in 1991 to 21.4 percent in 2012. Poverty is still
predominantly rural. The share of the population living in poverty in 2013 was 22.1 percent
nationwide, 38.2 percent in rural areas, and 10.4 percent in urban areas. In the rapidly
growing urban areas, with a growing services sector, large numbers of the labor force,
including migrants from rural areas, were absorbed in better paying jobs in the formal and
informal economy. Sustained growth was consolidated, spurred by favorable commodity
prices for Ghana’s main exports (gold and cocoa), the commercialization of a major oil
discovery, and robust growth in the services sector.

SECTOR CONTEXT

Ghana’s Achievements of the Millennium Development Goals
1.3     Ghana had a mixed record of achieving the Millennium Development Goal 7: Ensure
environmental sustainability. The target of halving the proportion of the population without
access to safe water has been achieved, but poor sanitation remains pervasive. For sanitation,
84 percent of total population remain without access to improved sanitation compared to the
target of 48 percent. In the case of water, the target was over achieved with 21 percent of the
population not having access to safe water vs. the target of 22 percent. Most households
remain without basic sanitation especially in rural areas. Urban areas recorded 28.6 percent
access to improved basic sanitation compared to 10.5 percent for the rural population in
2013. Public toilets are the facility used by the highest proportion of households at national
level in 2013, followed by defecation in bush/field/beach. In urban areas, public toilets are
the most used facility, followed by water closets. Among rural households, however,
defecation in bush/beach/field is the main practice, followed by public toilet and pit latrine.
Only 2.3 percent of rural households used water closets in 2013 compared with 23.3 percent
in urban areas.

1.4    Key challenges in the sector include: (a) fast rate of urbanization with increasing
demand for water for domestic, industrial and commercial consumption; (b) pollution of
water bodies by small-scale illegal miners in rural areas; (c) inadequate financial resources to
                                               2


undertake, operate and maintain water projects, combined with fiscal deficits and a rising
debt burden; (d) unreliable supply of electricity to power and pump water to homes; (e)
unplanned expansion of settlements; (f) low investment in sanitation delivery; (g) weak
environmental sanitation monitoring and enforcement systems; and (h) unavailability of
accurate and timely data on sanitation.

1.5     Going forward, Ghana has played a major role at both national and international
levels in defining the post-2015 development agenda and in developing the Sustainable
Development Goal (SDG). Goal 6 of the SDGs aims to ensure availability and sustainable
management of water and sanitation for all. Ghana has undertaken two national consultations
and one thematic consultation, and established Inter-ministerial Steering Committees as well
as a committee on finance. The objective is to incorporate SDGs into the long-term national
development plan. Ghana aims to ensure that the SDGs are reflected in subsequent medium-
term development frameworks. Guidelines will be provided to local governments to prepare
their development plans. Sector and district plans will be reviewed to ensure compliance with
the guidelines and approved for budgetary allocation. A list of indicators of the SDGs and
other national indicators will be tracked with the support of the Ghana Statistical Service and
the Cross-Sectoral Planning Groups, in line with the follow-up and review process of the
Post-2015 Development Agenda.

Urban Water and Sanitation Sector

1.6     Urbanization continues to put severe pressure on urban services such as housing,
water supply, sanitation, transport, drainage and solid waste collection and disposal.
According to government reports, about 70 percent of Ghana’s population lived in slums
with improper solid waste collection and disposal, poor road and drainage conditions leading
to congestion and floods, public health and safety concerns. The transfer of responsibility for
environmental sanitation from central ministries to the Local Assemblies was done without a
concomitant transfer of resources, which is likely to lead to difficulties in implementation
and in achieving broad national objectives in the sectors.

1.7      Urban Water Supply. According to a World Bank study, Ghana’s major cities have
recently seen a worrying trend toward diminished relative access to basic services (World
Bank 2015b). Within urban areas population growth has outpaced service supply, leading to
a lower share of the urban population with access to piped water, sanitation, and toilet
facilities. The proportion of residents in large metropolitan areas with access to piped water
experienced a downward trend within the decade of 2000 to 2010. Accra was the worst off
with a decline of 22.2 percentage points in the share of the population with access to piped
water, followed by Kumasi (7.7 percentage points) and Tema (5.7 percentage points). This
decline was covered by the purchase of bottled water and plastic water “sachets” where costs
are typically 5–7 times higher than piped water. Almost 83 percent of residents within
Kumasi city had access to piped water in 2000, but this level of access was reduced to 75.1
percent by 2010. System losses, lack of maintenance, and insufficient investments exacerbate
the problem in the expanding urban space.

1.8     Urban Sanitation. An increasing number of urban residents do not have access to
private or public toilet facilities. Between 2000 and 2010, there was an increase in the
                                                3


proportion of households without any toilet facility in all city size groups. Among the
metropolitan areas, Tamale (8.0 percent) and Tema (7.3 percent), and Sekondi‐Takoradi (1.5
percent) experienced a deterioration in access to safe toilets. Access to sewerage remains
very limited. Most households dispose of liquid waste directly in drainages, and in smaller
towns, most liquid waste is simply disposed of outside. Even in Accra and Tema, little more
than 10 percent of households discharged their liquid waste through the sewage system.
Access to liquid waste disposal services is better closer to the city centers, but a large
majority of households in peri‐urban areas do not have adequate liquid waste disposal
infrastructure.

1.9     Urban Solid Waste. Improvements in solid waste disposal and sewerage are limited
and most peri‐urban areas do not have access to waste disposal services. Throughout Ghana,
the majority of households use public dumps to dispose of household solid waste. In 2010,
37.7 percent of households disposed of their solid waste in open spaces at public dumps and
about one‐quarter (23.8 percent) disposed of their solid waste in public containers. Smaller
proportions of households either have their solid waste collected (14.4 percent) or burned
(10.7 percent). From 2000 to 2010, disposal of waste in public dumps declined in Greater
Accra by 17.3 percentage points and Ashanti region by 1.5 percentage points. Progress has
been made in waste collection in general, but this has not translated into improved
environmental conditions. This is especially the case in low‐income areas in cities such as
Kumasi and Accra, where communal disposal containers are constantly overflowing as a
result of delay or absence of institutionalized collection mechanisms.

Rural Water and Sanitation Sector — Community Water and Sanitation Program

1.10 The government’s Community Water and Sanitation Program falls within Ghana’s
National Water Policy (2007). The objective of this program is to "improve the public health
and economic well-being of rural and small town communities through the provision of
adequate, safe and sustainable water for domestic, commercial and industrial purposes in a
planned and coordinated manner, with integrated hygiene education and sanitation
interventions." An underlying principle of the Program is its emphasis on community
ownership and management, which entails effective community participation in the planning,
implementation and management of the water and sanitation facilities in the belief that, as
custodians, communities will ensure the sustainability of these systems. Water and Sanitation
Development Boards and Water and Sanitation Committees have been established for all
facilities and have been given some level of training to take care of their water and sanitation
facilities.

1.11 The Community Water and Sanitation Program is managed by the Community Water
and Sanitation Agency. The institutional framework for the sector has changed in order to fit
the new decentralized structure of the government (at the time of the project preparation and
implementation). Decentralization ushered in different modalities and practices in planning
and has had institutional, financial and regulatory implications on the entire sector. It also has
an impact on monitoring and support activities which require support to local governments to
fulfill their new mandate of service delivery and oversight. The Community Water and
Sanitation Program serves communities under 50,000 population. Communities are expected
to pay a percentage of the capital costs of systems as well as all of operations and
                                                 4


maintenance and are responsible for planning and managing their facilities. The demand
driven approach is viewed as key to promoting sustainability of systems. Other key principles
include: creating an adequate market for spare parts and repair services, ensuring
participation of all stakeholders, promoting the active involvement of women in all phases of
water supply and sanitation, and clearly defining and promoting the role of the informal and
formal private sector. Despite improvements, the key challenge remaining in the water and
sanitation sectors is the failure of past sector reforms to translate into efficient service
delivery, which caused Ghana to lag in meeting the Millennium Development Goal target for
access to improved sanitation, in particular.

1.12 Key challenges in the community water and sanitation sector include: (a) financial
constraints: payments for goods and services being delayed due to inadequate budgetary
resources; (b) weak coordination and collaboration: with some of the actors (for example,
nongovernmental organizations) using procedures and systems that differ from the
government’s recommended approach; (c) poor operations and maintenance: insufficient
support for community based organizations lead to poor maintenance and lack of access to
spare parts and technical skills; (d) decentralization: the slow pace of operationalizing
decentralization resulted in weak capacities at the local level; (e) institutional capacity: the
decline in skills of service authorities at the local level makes institutional support to
community ownership and management weak and fragmented; (f) hygiene
education: continued support beyond project closures has been difficult to sustain at times
diminishing good progress made after earlier efforts and campaigns; (g) sanitation: has
received much less attention and investments than water provision in general, and that the
sector deserves in particular. Sustained hygiene awareness messages, technical skills,
operations and management and finances are needed in order to have a sustained impact in
this subsector.
                                               5


2. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1      The project development objective as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (p.
17) is: “to improve urban living conditions in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale and
Tema in regard to environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid
waste management in a sustainable fashion with a special emphasis on the poor.” The project
objectives defined in the project appraisal document were similar.

2.2      The project was a follow up to the first Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (Cr.
2836-GH, closed December 2003) which included similar activities. In some cases, this
Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project scaled up or completed activities under the
first project.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

2.3     The project objectives were highly relevant to Bank and government strategic
objectives. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period 2004-07 (dated February
20, 2004) recognizes the need to strengthen government structures to improve urban services
in order to address poverty. The CAS supported the government’s efforts to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals in water and sanitation. Under Pillar II (Service Provision
for Human Development), the objective to increase sustainable water and sanitation services
aimed to address the low coverage of water and sanitation, especially in urban areas. This
project along with several other rural and urban infrastructure services (with a focus on water
and sanitation) and with urban and municipal management projects and technical assistance
formed the core of the Bank’s assistance to support the government’s strategy. The
government’s policy on Urban Environmental Sanitation (December 2003 updated in 2010)
was set in a decentralized framework in accordance with the Local Government Act of 1993
which emphasized the need to control solid and liquid waste, flooding, soil erosion and
environmental degradation in Ghana’s cities. Government Strategy and commitment were
outlined in the Sector Policy Letter that accompanied the project appraisal document.

2.4     According to the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period 2013-16,
(dated August 20, 2013), urban sanitation services remained on the development agenda with
high importance to continue the good performance in economic growth and poverty
reduction in Ghana. Pillar 3 of the CPS: Protecting the poor and vulnerable includes
improving access to water and sanitation as one of its three core tools. As in the CPS at
appraisal, the current CPS emphasizes urbanization, water and sanitation as key to Ghana’s
prosperity. The threat of flood was highlighted in the current CPS (following floods in
2007/8 and 2010) within the agriculture and climate change spectrums. The objectives were
reaffirmed in government documents including Ghana’s Medium Term Development Policy
Framework (2010-2013), Poverty Reduction Strategy (2006-2009), and the Ghana Shared
Growth and Development Agenda (2010-2013), as well as Ghana’s Millennium
Development Goals (MDG).
                                               6


2.5     The government’s Environmental Sanitation Policy was updated in November 2010
by the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and remains in force. The
policy recognized that increasing urbanization and non-adherence to planning directives
resulted in unauthorized location of buildings along flood plains and reservations. Inadequate
drainage facilities caused flooding in many localities every rainy season. The lack of
effective refuse collection led to the use of drains as refuse disposal receptacles exacerbating
the problems. The lack of engineered final treatment and disposal facilities across the
country, and particularly in Accra, is a cause for concern.

2.6     Poor hygienic practices by individuals and communities are compounded by
insufficient and ineffective hygiene education. Vector-borne diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia are rife due to the virtual absence of pest and disease vector control programs. More
than half of all reported diseases are related to poor environmental sanitation, with attendant
social and economic costs. Flooding causes major damage to public infrastructure and private
property. Pollution of water resources increases the technical difficulty and cost of providing
water supplies. Local governments often resort to ad-hoc interventions such as public clean-
up campaigns and periodic evacuation of refuse heaps. The low capacity of central and local
government agencies responsible for enforcement of environmental sanitation exacerbates
the problems. Relieving urban congestion for increased mobility and for improved health
delivery is also recognized in the current CPS.

DESIGN

2.7    The project comprised six components:

Component 1: Storm Drainage (original cost: US$16.5 million; actual cost: US$20.32
million). The component included lining of primary and secondary drains, construction of
small bridges and erosion control in areas subject to flooding. 16.7 kms of secondary
drainage were to be constructed or rehabilitated (lining, erosion control, small bridges). The
component required a resettlement action plan due to temporary destruction of walls, rooms,
toilets, bath houses etc. Sub-projects required having maintenance plans when they started in
each municipality (Project Appraisal Document [PAD] p. 29).

Component 2: Sanitation (original cost US$ 7.8 million; actual cost: US$8.72 million). The
component included (a) construction of household latrines and establishment of a domestic
latrine delivery program; (b) rehabilitation and construction of public latrines in public
places; (c) rehabilitation and construction of school latrines combined with hygiene
education and the provision of water supply where needed; (d) rehabilitation or construction
of septage treatment facilities; and (e) improved sewerage management in Tema.

The project aimed to focus on low income communities. For private toilets, the IDA credit
provided a subsidy of 50 percent with a ceiling of $150, which excluded new construction. A
marketing strategy and training of artisans was included in the component. A consultant was
to manage the household latrine program (including vetting household applications).
Component 3: Solid Waste Management (original cost US$ 25.7 million; actual cost
US$15.94 million). This component included: (a) construction of new sanitary landfills for
                                                            7


Accra and Tema and the completion of one in Sekondi-Takoradi; (b) equipment for sanitary
landfills; (c) closure and rehabilitation of existing refuse dumps; (d) operation of sanitary
landfills preceded by the improved operation of some; (e) private solid waste collection; and
(f) supply of household bins, skips and skip pads.

The cost of the solid waste component dropped by about US$10 million due to the
cancellation of two subcomponents: Kwabenya landfill (estimated base costs of US$9.5
million) and the Achimota Septage facility (estimated base costs of US$8 million). An
estimated US$4 million allocated to financing private sector operators for landfill
management and solid waste collection were not used for the purpose due to other needs.
Finally, the road to the Tema septage facility was not rehabilitated (estimated cost of US$0.5
million).

Component 4: Community Infrastructure Upgrading (original cost US$ 8.5 million;
actual cost US$ 12.95 million). Infrastructure upgrading in low income communities
including access roads, roadside drains, street lighting, water supply and sanitation.

Component 5: Institutional Strengthening (original cost US$ 9.6 million; actual cost US$
9.7 million). This component was financed by the Nordic Development Fund and included:
(a) technical assistance and training, (b) capacity building in Ministry of Local Government
and Rural Development; (c) capacity building in Municipal Assemblies; (d) malaria vector
control and HIV/AIDS prevention; (e) project wide monitoring; (f) reconditioning of waste
management equipment; (g) house numbering; and (h) a communications strategy.

Component 6: Project Management (original cost US$ 12.8 million; actual cost US$3.31).
This included project management, refunding of Project Preparation Facility, and physical
and price contingencies – allocated to a Performance Based Fund (US$11.1 million). The
Performance Based Fund would allocate funds for activities within the project objectives
according to achievement of performance criteria by Municipal Assemblies.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

2.8     The project design was substantially relevant to the project objectives. Each of the
project components (output) addresses each of the sub-objectives (outcomes): i.e.
investments to rehabilitate or build drainage, sanitation, solid waste, road networks and street
lights improve urban living conditions due to improvements in these sectors. A shortcoming
in the design is that the logical framework was not sufficiently robust to measure and assess
the direct impact of the project on the outcomes, especially as related to sustainability and
addressing the poor1.

2.9    The project objectives and design are complicated with seven embedded objectives
(environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, solid waste management,
sustainability, emphasis on the poor) and six components, in five cities in an environment of
weak capacity. The project is a follow up on previous similar intervention and the

1
    This is discussed in detail in the Quality at Entry Section.
                                               8


institutional set up for its implementation existed at the time of preparation. The project was
complex in a new, changing and weak environment of decentralization with insufficient
monitoring.

Implementation
2.10 A second level restructuring of the project was approved in June 2010 (restructuring
paper dated May 25, 2010). The restructuring was undertaken in order to extend the closing
date by 18 months and to reallocate funds among categories depending on project progress
and agreements. The project was extended twice more in December 2011 and 2012 for a total
extension of 2.5 years. The reasons for the extensions were mainly to complete ongoing
activities. The third and final extension in December 2012 introduced a category for
compensation payments to persons affected by the work undertaken in the Kwabenya
landfill. Although the construction of the landfill was cancelled, the government remained
liable to compensate people impacted by the activities.

SAFEGUARDS

2.11 At appraisal, two safeguards policies were triggered —Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The Development Credit
Agreement included the conditions for undertaking activities that trigger safeguards which
included prior actions to complete resettlement and environmental plans, acquire land,
compensation and resettlement, and thereafter to implement the environmental management
plans. The project was classified as Environmental Category A because of serious
environmental and social issues related to landfills and solid and liquid waste management.

2.12 A Resettlement Policy Framework was completed for the project and disclosed with
the Environmental Framework (PAD p. 76). Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) were to be
prepared during implementation even when the sites were known. The delay in the
preparation of the RAP until implementation is a shortcoming when the project sites are
known. This contributed to delays in project implementation. Project preparation relied on
old designs, and an update of the United Kingdom’s Department for International
Development (DfID) environmental assessments for the Kwabenya landfill prepared with
DfID financing a few years before the project (construction of access road was started by
DfID in 1999).

Environmental Safeguards

2.13 The PAD (p.12), acknowledged the severity of environmental and social issues for
the Kwabenya landfill in particular. At appraisal, five Environmental Management Plans
were completed for identified activities, while another 5 were to be prepared based on the
project wide Environmental Assessment Framework. Environmental Assessments and the
Environmental Frameworks were disclosed in Ghana and at the InfoShop in Washington, DC
in January 2004. Municipal Assemblies were provided with the documents for their use and
for public information.

Social Safeguards
                                                9



2.14 The project triggered OP/BP 4.12 due to significant concerns with involuntary
resettlement issues arising from the inclusion of construction or rehabilitation of landfills and
due to the existence of informal settlements in the urban areas considered for the project.
Overall, the PAD clearly identified these issues and built in mitigating measures to address
them (e.g. engaging scavengers and addressing their concerns). The PAD acknowledged
previous difficulties, community resistance and lack of agreement with regard to the
Kwabenya landfill when the DfID attempted to finance the landfill. There were significant
shortcomings in handling the Kwabenya landfill; however the project could not be faulted for
including the site and trying to resolve the significant problem of the need for a landfill in
Accra.

2.15 Following the involvement of the Inspection Panel, Bank procedures were applied
more rigorously. The social issues that emerged in the Kwabenya landfill sub-component
greatly affected the pace of implementation of the project. The construction of the landfill
was finally dropped from the project at the request of the government due to the non-
resolution of the demands by the community. In June 2015, the government informed the
Bank that it will revoke the Executive Instrument on which the expropriation was based. By
this action, the rights of the affected people will be restored. This development was
determined by the Bank to be a resolution to the concerns of the requesters and the
outstanding issue from the Action Plan. On October 15, 2015, the Inspection Panel issued its
Third and Final Progress Report and concluded that compensation under the RAP was not
accepted by the affected people, and some continued to build on the land. These actions
reflected the intent of the affected people to contest the expropriation and to seek to remain in
place. The report therefore accepted the government’s decision.

2.16 The Bank informed IEG mission that it will continue to follow-up with the
government regarding the enactment of the cancellation of the Executive Instrument and will
issue a final note accordingly. Safeguards for other activities were monitored in a
satisfactory manner with minor shortcomings. More details on the developments under the
Kwabenya Landfill and Inspection Panel findings are provided in Appendix F.

FIDUCIARY

Financial Management

2.17 As part of appraisal, the Bank conducted a Financial Management (FM) Assessment
for the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) and the five
participating Municipal Assemblies. The responsibility for FM lay with the MLGRD’s Head
of Accounts and the Municipal Finance officers of the Municipal Assemblies (MAs), whose
capacities were assessed to be adequate. A Financial Procedure Manual for the MAs was
prepared to ensure that uniform financial procedures were used, and the project included
training in financial management.

2.18 Financial Management was generally satisfactory through implementation, with
moderate shortcomings. Quarterly financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely
manner, and annual audit reports of the project accounts by independent external auditors
                                              10


raised no significant issues. Shortcomings primarily involved, lack of regular updating of the
commitment schedule, and delays in recovering advances made to the MAs. The project
complied with the Bank’s requirements for financial management of project accounts.

Procurement

2.19 The project complied with relevant Bank and country procedures during project
preparation and implementation, with moderate shortcomings. As part of appraisal, the Bank
conducted a Procurement Capacity Assessment for the project. The overall procurement risk
was rated moderate at appraisal. Procurement responsibilities for the Institutional
Strengthening component and overall backstopping of the Municipal Assemblies lay with the
Project Coordination Unit within MLGRD, which was experienced with implementation of
Bank projects. The Municipal Assemblies were responsible for procurement of activities in
their respective sub-components. Shortcomings in respect to procurement noted during
implementation and in the Beneficiary Assessment included difficulties in selection of high
quality contractors and suppliers, which led to delays, and poor quality equipment in some
cases. Procurement of goods and services under the Institutional Strengthening Component,
financed by the Nordic Development Fund was reported to have faced difficulties that
prevented access to the funds for certain activities.

Achievement of Objectives
2.20 The project development objective is: “to improve urban living conditions in Accra,
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale and Tema in regard to environmental health, sanitation,
drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a sustainable fashion with a
special emphasis on the poor.”

2.21 The objective statement includes seven sub-objectives/criteria i.e. environmental
health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, solid waste management, sustainability, and
emphasis on the poor. The efficacy of the objective will be assessed separately under each
sub-objective, and the sub-objectives relating to environmental health, sustainability and
emphasis on poor will be assessed last as they are embedded in outcomes of sanitation,
drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management sub-objectives.

2.22 The review of the beneficiary assessments (a summary is provided in Appendix G)
and the observations of the IEG mission are used in analyzing the efficacy of achieving the
project development objectives. There was no baseline of urban living conditions at the time
of preparation and a measure of improvement was not monitored during or at the end of the
project. The field mission was unable to get data on urban living conditions.

2.23 The first sub-objective of improved sanitation is rated Substantial. The project
aimed to improve urban living conditions by increasing access to sanitary toilets, improve
treatment of septage waste/sewerage, and initiate a domestic latrine delivery program with
private sector artisans.
                                                   11


OUTPUTS

2.24 The demand for household latrines was high: 8,500 households were provided with
latrines against target of 8,200 set at appraisal. The demand for public latrines was below
expectations: 36 public latrines were provided compared to the target of 91 latrines. This
reflects the preferences for household latrines and a move away from the publicly provided
latrines (except for institutions such as schools and clinics) as outlined in the government’s
strategic plans. Stakeholders noted to IEG mission that the government policy now does not
provide for public latrines for residential communities. Under the project 139 school latrines
were built compared to the target of 167.

2.25 The expansion of the Accra Septage facility (Achimota) was not completed. The
Tema septage treatment facility was built under the First Urban Environmental Sanitation
Project and rehabilitated under this Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project, but the
operation of the facility was sub-optimal and not all the ponds were being used.

OUTCOMES

2.26 The objective of providing access to sanitation was achieved. The sanitation needs of
an estimated 239,000 people were met. 166,000 private household residents obtained sanitary
latrines, and an additional 24,000 people have access to public/communal toilets, and 49,000
school children to school latrines. The planned targets were 160,000 private household
residents, 70,000 public toilet users and 70,000 school children for a total of 300,000.
Interviews during the field visit indicated that attendance of girls in schools have increased
due to availability of toilets. Among the respondents to the Beneficiary Assessment surveys,
access to latrines after the project improved from 34.2 to 78.8 percent for households; and
from 61.3 to 94.2 percent in schools. Overall satisfaction with access to toilets increased
from 23.4 to 76 percent.

Table 2.1: Sanitation situation before and after the project

 Situation                                Before                             After
                            No. of respondents          %       No. of respondents      %
 Bad                                43                  17.9            19             7.9
 Very bad                           44                  18.3            5              2.1
 Not so good                        97                  40.4            33             13.8
 Good                               52                  21.7           133             55.4
 Very good                           4                  1.7             50             20.8
 Total                              240                 100            240             100
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013

2.27 The domestic latrine delivery program was expected to take off on its own. No
monitoring of the situation was undertaken. Discussions during the mission indicated that
government regulations require that toilets be installed in all new construction. This is likely
to be adhered to in the urban areas of the project given the demonstrated preference for
household latrines during the project, and in Ghana in general.
                                             12


2.28 The IEG mission visited multiple school latrines, one public latrine in four out of five
cities. School latrines visited by the IEG mission were relatively clean, but they were not
maintained to appropriate standards, e.g. lack of water near the latrines. The importance of
clean and working toilet facilities cannot be underestimated due to the effect on the
children’s health and attitude towards learning, clean sanitation and hygiene, a learning
experience they will carry on for life.

2.29 The IEG mission found evidence of hygiene education in schools was lacking. There
were no posters or drawings near the toilets or in other visible parts of the school. When
adults were asked, they indicated that hygiene education was taught through discussions,
songs, etc. At the national level (School Health and Education Project Coordinator at the
Ministry of Education), it was confirmed that following an earlier strong hygiene education
campaign financed by donors, the printing of posters and other educational materials had
declined considerably due to lack of funds. Foreign and local non-governmental
organizations remained active in hygiene education. The Beneficiary Assessment for Waste
Management and Sanitation noted that 88 percent of respondents indicated they did not have
hygiene promotion groups.

2.30 The objective of improving septage treatment was not achieved. The planned
Achimota septage facility was not undertaken. The operations of the Tema septage facility
was sub-optimal. The visit to the Tema Septage Facility found the facility working with
minimum standards and not in accordance with design. Only one person was in charge. Few
trucks were observed emptying their content into one of the four existing ponds. According
to the technical consultant accompanying the mission, the facility is inadequately operated.
The second anaerobic pond which was used as a by-pass during the rehabilitation of the plant
is yet to be emptied. The inter-pond connections were not working as designed and the
second anaerobic pond, facultative pond and two matriculation ponds were by-passed. The
quality of the effluent does not meet the discharge guidelines since more than half of the
ponds have been by-passed.

2.31 The second sub-objective of improved drainage is rated Substantial. The project
aimed to improve urban living conditions of people living and/or working in low-lying areas,
which were subject to frequent flooding.

OUTPUTS

2.32 The IDA intervention in the drainage system was a very small part of the drainage
system in the respective Municipal Assemblies. The project completed the reconstruction,
and lining of a total of 16.8 km of primary and secondary storm drains in Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi Takoradi, and Tema as planned. Drainage Maintenance Units were established
through the Institutional Strengthening Component in the Municipal Assemblies, with
dedicated annual budgets.

OUTCOMES

2.33 Respondents to the Beneficiary Assessment of residents and government officials
reported improved drainage, and reduced frequency, severity, and duration of floods in the
                                               13


project areas. Accessibility in the affected areas improved and stagnant water which allowed
malaria carrying anopheles mosquito to breed was reduced. About 47 percent of Beneficiary
Assessment respondents indicated that they noted improvements in health.

2.34 The IEG mission visited several main, secondary and tertiary drainage sites. Overall,
solid waste was observed in a majority of the drains and siltation and plant growth was
observed in the primary drains. Following the flooding in June 2015, funds allocated for
cleaning the drains was doubled from the original budget. However, IEG was informed by
the stakeholders that had the cleanup started earlier in the season (and more importantly had
solid waste not been thrown into the drains), flooding would have been less severe with less
damage to property, and lower costs of cleanup.

2.35 The third sub-objective of improving urban living conditions by providing improved
solid waste collection, disposal and treatment is rated Substantial.

OUTPUTS

2.36 Two landfills were completed (a new $5 million Tema landfill, and the Sekondi-
Takoradi landfill which had been started during the previous project). Construction of a new
cell at the Kumasi landfill was completed. Old dump sites at Accra, Sekondi Takoradi and
Tema were closed. The construction of US$10 million, 190-acre Kwabenya landfill for Accra
was abandoned due to sustained opposition by people living near the proposed site (see
safeguards section for details).

2.37 The project carried out the required treatment of leachate, venting of methane gas,
contouring and stabilization of the soil, and fencing off the sites. The project also made
alternative provisions for the livelihood of scavengers who worked on these sites. Some were
relocated to the new sites. The two new landfills were provided with new equipment (front
loaders, compactors, tipper trucks, water tankers, etc.) and landfill staff were trained in their
use. Households were provided with refuse bins and waste containers. The collection,
transport and disposal of solid waste in four of the cities (except Accra) was contracted out
on a competitive basis to the private sector. The plan for the IDA credit to finance private
sector contracts on a declining basis did not materialize.

OUTCOMES

2.38 The objective of improving solid waste collection, management and disposal was
achieved — unsanitary landfills were either closed or improved, and staff were trained to
operate the new equipment. Environmental conditions were improved through closure of
unsafe/unsanitary dumps, and the opening up of new landfills. Scavengers from the old waste
dumps were organized into associations and were trained to maintain basic safety standards
such as the use of protective gear. The Beneficiary Assessment indicated that 68 percent of
the respondents obtained waste bins, and 12 percent more have their waste collected after the
project. Table 2.2 provides data on the method of solid waste disposal.

2.39 Beneficiaries from the project sites reported improved conditions, and changed
behavior due to the expanded waste collection. The beneficiary survey for Kumasi, Tamale
and Sekondi-Takoradi found that 52 percent of survey respondents (240 households) now
                                                   14


throw their trash into project provided skips compared to 37 percent before the project. Only
9 percent of respondents dumped waste into the bush compared to 25 percent before the
project. Thirty percent of the respondents still burned their solid waste. Sixty Six percent of
the BA respondents noted improved environmental sanitation due to interventions in solid
waste management.

2.40 Closure of the four unsanitary dumps improved the surrounding environmental and
living conditions. Some of the reclaimed sites were used by communities, e.g., the old
Kumasi and Oblogo dumps were used as a community sports ground. IEG mission
discussion with the beneficiaries found that there is a risk that the sites are being encroached
upon and could lose their community use.

Table 2.2: Method of Solid Waste Disposal

                                               Before the project                 After the project
    Refuse disposal Method                 Total number of          %        Total number of           %
                                             respondents                       respondents
    Burn                                          76                31.7            68                28.3
    Burry it                                      3                 1.3             9                  3.8
    House to house collection                     7                 2.9             17                 7.1
    Into water logged areas                       6                 2.5
    Skip                                          42                17.5           125                52.1
    Solid waste dump                              48                20
    Throw away into bush                          58                24.2            21                 8.8
    Total                                        240                100            240                100.0
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013



2.41 The IEG mission visited two working landfills (Tema and Kumasi), and the closed
Oblogo landfill in Accra. The Oblogo covered landfill site was in overall reasonable
condition. Initially after the landfill was covered, the area was used as a community space,
and residents were pleased with the change in environment. At the time of the IEG mission, a
large informal settlement had encroached around the covered site. Piles of trash were visible
in several corners of the site, and methane extraction vents were exposed without use.

2.42 In Tema, the condition of the landfill had in fact improved since the closing of the
project, when the facility was deemed incomplete and inappropriately managed. The
government had engaged the services of a consultant to undertake a technical assessment of
the Tema landfill site, and had put into practice some of the short-term recommendations
from the study.2



2
 Technical Audit of Facility Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of Engineered Landfill Site at Kpone near
Tema (May 2015): Water Aide Associated for the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development.
                                              15


2.43 The Tema landfill plays a critical role in public health and solid waste management
for not only Tema and its surroundings, but also benefits Accra. The Tema landfill is
receiving solid waste from Accra due to the latter’s inability to open a new landfill in
Kwabenya because of a dispute with nearby residents (see section on safeguards and
Appendix F). Without the Tema landfill, a crisis in solid waste disposal in Accra would have
erupted with critical consequences to public health. However, this situation has shortened the
lifespan of the Tema landfill which was designed to receive considerably less solid waste
from Tema only. The landfill was designed for a lifespan of 10 years. At the current usage
rate, the remaining life of the Tema landfill is estimated to be less than 2 years (instead of
about 5-6 years). The IEG mission observed during its visit the operation of the site. Trash
had been routinely compacted and covered, the weighbridge and billing system were
operational, and the site was continuously receiving trucks.

2.44 On the other hand, the visit to the Kumasi landfill, which was reported to be in good
working condition at the end of the project, found the landfill to be lacking in appropriate
operations and maintenance. The weighbridge was not working, staff indicated that they were
able to bill based on previous records of the weights of the trucks. Solid waste was piled high
with minimum compaction and months of no cover. Idle heavy equipment and some in non-
working condition were observed at the site.

2.45 The fourth sub-objective of improved vehicular access is rated Substantial. The
project aimed to improve urban living conditions by providing vehicular access in
neighborhoods.

OUTPUTS

2.46 Small roads, side drains, localized water supply and street lighting were
built/rehabilitated in 14 low income communities to benefit 100,000 people (original target
was 80,800 people in 13 communities). The small roads were paved and side drains dredged.

OUTCOMES

2.47 Baseline, monitoring or end of project data was not available regarding vehicular
access to the areas served. Previously unpassable roads became all weather roads due to
improved side drains which reduced flooding. IEG visits to areas where community
upgrading had taken place had similar observations as those in the ICR and the beneficiary
assessments. Beneficiaries met expressed general satisfaction to the IEG mission regarding
the community infrastructure upgrading. Perceived benefits were improved community and
neighborhood security from street lights and access roads. The IEG mission observed a
marked difference between communities where paved roads were provided and others where
the roads remained unpaved. Houses were upgraded, commercial activities were better
organized, and overall traffic conditions were improved. Roads were clean and the
atmosphere less dusty (in the dry season), and reportedly continues to be passable – unlike
the muddy unpaved roads – in the rainy season. Drainage culverts were less polluted that
other drains, reflecting community pride and willingness to keep the area clean. Homes were
noted to be in better condition than others in the area where roads were not upgraded.
                                              16


2.48 Small shops lined the paved road and commercial and social activities were noted. A
shopkeeper confirmed that some street lights did not work, but indicated she did not report
them. Discussions with officials confirmed findings in the ICR and the Beneficiary
Assessments that the upgrading encouraged residents to upgrade their home and businesses
were attracted. The area became more attractive, yet more expensive to live in.

2.49 The fifth sub-objective of improved environmental health is rated Modest. The
project objective was to improve urban living conditions in regards to environmental health
by increasing access to sanitation and solid waste collection, disposal and treatment. This
objective is embedded as an outcome of improved sanitation, drainage and hygiene
education.

OUTPUTS

2.50 The project’s institutional strengthening component, financed by the Nordic
Development Fund, provided training in public health/environmental health to staff of the
environmental health units within the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
and the Municipal Assemblies. Field equipment, insecticides, and health promotional
material were provided for use by the environmental health units.

OUTCOMES

2.51 The project’s investments in solid waste management, sanitation and training of
public health/environmental health staff of the environmental health units are likely to
contribute to environmental health outcomes vis-à-vis reduced diarrheal diseases and vector
borne diseases. The extent of the improvement in environmental health is not known as the
project did not include any indicator to track this outcome. The Beneficiary Assessment
indicates that 46.7 percent of respondents said they have seen improvements in health. High
demand for household latrines (reasons reported — safety, privacy and convenience) reflects
preferences and trends for the future. 78.8 percent of respondents own latrines, all had access
to public latrines, and 94 percent indicate that their neighborhood schools have latrines.
Water, soap and hygiene education material were not present in the majority of sites visited
during the Beneficiary Assessments and the IEG mission.

2.52 The sixth sub-objective of improving urban living conditions in regards to
environmental health, sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management
in a sustainable fashion is rated Modest. This sub-objective overlaps with the “Risk to
Development Outcome” section where risks are discussed in greater detail.

OUTPUTS

2.53 Intensive and wide ranging training, publications, public information, and manuals
were prepared for the project, for example training for revenue collection, tariff setting,
manuals for operations and maintenance, and hygiene education. Capacity was strengthened
at the MLGRD, particularly at the PCU. Municipal Assemblies became responsible for
service delivery of sanitation received training and established drainage maintenance and
waste management units with annual budgets.
                                              17


OUTCOME

2.54 Household latrines are privately owned and are the responsibility of households to be
maintained. The operations and maintenance of public latrines rely on the private sector and
payment for services by users. The operations and maintenance of the school latrines rely on
payments by parents of students. Reportedly some parents resist payment of additional fees
for sanitation. Beneficiary Assessment and IEG mission observations indicate that
improvements to the O&M of public and school toilets need more attention by users as well
as oversight by local authorities.

2.55 School and public latrines visited by IEG mission were relatively clean. However,
almost all showed signs of lack of appropriate operations in accordance with technical
guidelines. Water facilities that were installed (e.g. tanks, sinks) were not operational. In
some schools, water taps were located at a distance from the toilets. In some cases, toilet
doors and taps were locked. Parent Teacher Associations in urban areas were active, and in
most cases the school was able to hire a janitor. Where parents refused to pay a fee to the
school, facilities were left poorly maintained and in some cases cleaned by the students. IEG
observations were similar to the Beneficiary Assessment report in which lack of maintenance
(table 2.4) was observed by respondents to the sanitation — 68 percent of respondents noted
that the lack of maintenance will affect sustainability.

Table 2.3: Factors that will affect the sustainability of the project

 Factors                                       Total number of             %
                                                 respondents
 Lack of maintenance                                 175                   68.6
 Limited capacity                                     27                   10.6
 Limited resources                                    48                   18.8
 Lack of supervision                                  5                    2.0
 Total                                               255                   100
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013


2.56 The IEG mission noted the weak operations and maintenance of the large investments
such as the landfills and septage facilities, including the presence of idle equipment. Weak
institutional arrangements and funding of operations and maintenance is well documented in
Beneficiary Assessments, in observations of the IEG missions as well as in
acknowledgements of official and beneficiary stakeholders. Weak O&M poses a
considerable risk to the long term sustainability of the investments. The Tema landfill is
serving the immediate needs for solid waste disposal in Accra. However, the large amounts
of solid waste from Accra has shortened the life of the landfill almost by half.

2.57 The project introduced the charging of fees for services such as solid waste collection,
tipping fees at landfills, and private sector operation of landfills and solid waste collection.
Evidence on cost recovery is lacking due to lack of ring-fencing of accounts or monitoring of
private sector operators.
                                              18


2.58 Drainage Maintenance Units were established through the Institutional Strengthening
Component in the Municipal Assemblies, with dedicated annual budgets. However, IEG and
the Beneficiary Assessments observed signs of prevailing lack of care and stewardship of
communities and inadequate maintenance. Silt had been deposited and plants were growing
in primary drains, and communities dump waste in the drains.

2.59 The Beneficiary Assessment evaluated the impact of the Institutional Strengthening
component and found mixed results of the long term impact of training given changes in staff
and need for continuous training.

2.60 The seventh sub-objective of improved focus on the poor is rated Modest. The
project objective was to improve urban living conditions in regards to environmental health,
sanitation, drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a sustainable fashion
with special emphasis on the poor.

OUTCOME

2.61 The project teams reported that project interventions were carried out as planned in
accordance with the Strategic Sanitation Plans developed by the Municipal Assemblies.
These plans had prioritized lists of households, communities, and schools drawn from the
cities low-income residents. The plans also laid out the financing arrangements and subsidies
for the poor communities. The IEG mission noted that it is usually poor neighborhoods that
live near landfills and waste treatment plants (this was evident in the visits to the closed
landfills), and the residents are likely to benefit from the improved environment. However,
the results framework did not include indicators to track this sub-objective, neither did the
beneficiary assessments.

Efficiency
2.62 The appraisal team considered cost benefit analysis inappropriate for the project
because the outputs have no market value readily assessed and benefits could not be
measured in monetary terms. Instead, the cost effectiveness method was used for the
drainage and residential latrines components. The same methodology was repeated at the
completion of the project, where the discounted actual costs of the components were
compared to the appraisal costs.

2.63 In the case of storm drains, the actual cost of the project was US$ 20.8 million,
corresponded to US$ 14.5 million in 2004 prices, which is lower than the US$ 16.5 million
estimated at appraisal. The actual cost per km is US$ 863,000, was 13 percent lower than the
US$ 1 million estimated at appraisal. The results show that the project attained the expected
benefits at lower costs than foreseen at appraisal, which makes the drainage component
substantially efficient.

2.64 Project appraisal and final data show that public toilets per seat cost more than double
private household toilets. In the case of household latrines, the ICR found that actual per
capita cost of household latrines (US$ 25) was about 50 percent higher than appraisal
estimate, and 70 percent higher for public latrines and 5 percent of school latrines. Based on
                                                 19


available WASH cost data3 from Ghana and other countries, the actual costs of the facilities
fall within the average range of costs for similar facilities with a maximum of US$51 per
capita cost.

2.65 Several project components were dropped (these were Kwabenya landfill, Achimota
Septage rehabilitation, financing of private landfill and solid waste collection operators,
Tema Septage road), implying that considerable planned benefits did not materialize. The
project closing date was extended by two and half years due to delays in resolving
resettlement issues, and delays in contract award and execution, suggesting substantially
delayed benefits. For some investments, O&M is weak which would impact long term
benefits stream.

2.66    Based on the above, the efficiency rating for the project is modest.

Project Ratings
OUTCOME

2.67 The objectives of the project respond directly to the strategies of the government of
Ghana and the Bank, and therefore the relevance of objectives is rated high. The design of
the project is rated substantial because each component aims to achieve each of the
objectives stated, but there were shortcomings in the overall implementation and monitoring
arrangements. The project efficacy is rated substantial based on the stated planned and actual
achievements in terms of improving services in the sectors addressed by the project, with
shortcomings in the achievement of sustainability objective and less than robust evidence on
poverty and environmental health. The efficiency is rated modest because several
components were dropped indicating less benefits achieved. Based on these ratings and
analysis, the project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.68 This section overlaps with the sixth sub-objective section on sustainability which is
rated modest. The Government of Ghana is committed to improving the sanitation and public
health aspects of its citizens. The government is engaged with donors to address these issues
at all levels, and has included them in the national development plans. The government
continues to rely heavily on donor support, training and knowledge sharing and private
participation to address large needs. The Government of Ghana has declared its adherence to
the new Sustainable Development Goals with a special focus on sanitation. It aims to
incorporate them into national and regional plans. The turnaround in the operation of the

3
  Data was based on sanitation expenditure and service levels emerging from WASHCost’s research,
led by IRC International Water and Sanitation Center WASHcost Programme, which collected and
analyzed cost and service level information for water, sanitation and hygiene in rural and peri-urban
areas, applying the life-cycle costs approach from Burkina Faso, Ghana, Andhra Pradesh (India) and
Mozambique.
                                                20


Tema landfill indicates that there is a willingness to improve the situation. The Bank is
following up with an ongoing project addressing water and sanitation in the Greater Accra
Metropolitan Area.

2.69 The institutional sustainability at the national and regional levels has been enhanced
through the long engagement in the sector with donors. Capacities are also high in large
municipalities, and considerable efforts continue to take place to build the capacity at smaller
municipalities and at the community level. With the recent changes in local government
structures and responsibilities, the process of building institutional capacity at lower levels of
government will take a long time. There are signs that in the long term, with increased efforts
and support, sustainability is possible. Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies are
building up departments for drainage and sanitation maintenance to increase the
sustainability of investments.

2.70 However, the overall risk to the development outcome of the project is rated
Substantial. There are significant shortcomings in the post operation of the project that
render a substantial risk rating to the development outcome. The sustainability of the public
civil works and services will depend on (i) the financial resources or revenue-generating
capability of the Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies for their upkeep; and (ii)
behavior change of the population who have been accustomed to indiscriminate dumping.

2.71 During the IEG mission discussions, there was broad agreement that public toilet
facilities built and operated by the private sectors were better operated and maintained than
those built by the public sector and operated by the private sector. Reasons mentioned
included (a) weak supervision and regulation by Municipal Assemblies, (b) perverse
incentives of operators with short term (2 year contracts) to inadequately maintain the
facilities at the end of the contract period; and (c) lack of clarity of responsibilities for minor
and major repairs. School latrines visited by the IEG mission were relatively clean, but they
were not maintained to appropriate standards, e.g. lack of water near the latrines.

2.72 The finances of the Municipal Assemblies are dependent on government transfers.
Accounts of revenue generating facilities are not ring fenced in order to enable cost recovery.
Private sector operators are engaged to operate the landfills, yet their responsibility for
maintenance expenditures (including for heavy equipment) is not clear. During the IEG visit,
stakeholders almost unanimously voiced similar concerns related to lack of consistent and
sufficient funding, clear assignment of responsibilities, and training on operations and
maintenance of all facilities (especially public toilets). The IEG mission observed the less
than adequate operation and maintenance of the Tema Septage facility and the Kumasi
landfill, and of project equipment indicates there is need for improved operations. The Tema
landfill has been receiving solid waste from Accra in large amounts that has shortened the
life of the landfill almost by half.
                                               21


Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

2.73 The project is a follow up on similar previous interventions in the same sectors to
address critical threats to health and human livelihoods due to repeated floods and lack of
appropriate sanitation which has caused the outbreak of related diseases in major urban areas
in Ghana. The project was prepared in less than a year as a follow up on a previous project
and incorporated the scale up and the completion of activities started under the First Urban
Environmental Sanitation Project. The project incorporated lessons learned from the many
Bank-financed water and sanitation projects in Ghana. At the same time, it incorporated new
realities such as decentralization ad the delegation of responsibilities for service delivery to
the Municipal Assemblies.

2.74 There were significant shortcomings in attention to safeguard issues during
preparation. The project relied on old information in then existing Environmental and
Safeguard Framework (see section on Safeguards). As the ICR indicates, project preparation
did not follow up on the rigorous internal regional panel review, namely to revisit the risk
assessment and mitigation as well as to review the implication for safeguards. The Quality
Assurance Group’s quality of entry assessment in 2005 rated the overall quality at entry
unsatisfactory for the following reasons (a) inadequate attention to sustainability issues; (b)
weak implementation arrangements given lack of sufficient capacity at the municipal levels;
(c) weak assessment of risks and mitigation measures; and (d) lack of readiness for
implementation.

2.75 In hindsight, had the team reconsidered the risks and the likelihood of success of the
risky activities (Kwabenya landfill), this activity might have been dropped and the
difficulties of implementation avoided. However given the dire need in Accra for appropriate
solid waste solutions, including the landfill, which persists till today, the team cannot be
faulted for reconsidering Kwabenya. A moderate shortcoming is related to the complexity of
the project coupled with a monitoring framework that was not designed to capture all the
objectives of the project (e.g. environmental health, sustainability). Given the complexity of
the project and each of its components, and the overlapping issues and potential
shortcomings, Quality at Entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

2.76 The project was approved in April 2004 and became effective six months later in
October 2004. Despite the major challenge of the Kwabenya resettlement complaint and the
ensuing inspection, other components continued to be implemented without major
disruptions. The project team delayed the engagement of a social specialist to resolve issues
for Kwabenya. While such a delay was not necessary or acceptable, it was unlikely that the
Kwabenya issue would have been resolved, and the landfill built, given the refusal of the
community to engage in a dialogue with the authorities to arrive at a solution. However, good
advice could have been provided to minimize costs to the Bank and the government. After
the Inspection Panel ruling (March 2009) the Bank intensified its efforts. The project team
leader moved to the field and there were a total of sixteen supervision visits. An updated and
                                             22


full scale Environmental Impact Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan was undertaken.
Borrower comments in the ICR suggested that the Bank's processes had been overly
influenced by the small group living nearby who was not as affected by the landfill as
claimed.

2.77 Supervision missions were undertaken regularly with staff from headquarters and the
resident mission. The two other landfills in Tema, and Sekondi-Takoradi were successfully
completed. An additional cell at the Kumasi landfill was also completed. The project closing
date was extended by thirty months due to the weak capacities of the newly decentralized
local governments who became responsible for the implementation of the activities under the
project.

2.78 There were coordination issues between two different Bank projects citing
investments in the same location. The planned septage treatment facility for Accra had to be
abandoned on the instructions of the city’s Mayor due to the proximity to a new bus terminal
financed by another Bank project. Likewise a power transmission line (from a Bank energy
project) was being erected and crossed the Kwabenya Landfill site, which would have
compromised the latter had it not been dropped. The Quality of Supervision is rated
moderately satisfactory.

2.79   The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT

2.80 The overall performance of the government is rated moderately satisfactory. At the
national level, the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) was
responsible for the implementation of the project and for coordination with the Bank and
with the five Municipal Assemblies through the project Coordinating Unit. The MLGRD was
committed to the project, and kept the PCU well-staffed. At times, the government did not
provide the counterpart funds on time.

2.81 The Municipal Assemblies were responsible for the implementation of the project at
the local level. Municipalities were undergoing continuous changes in their structure due to
decentralization, and the project presented new challenges to them. This new situation caused
delays in implementation. Considerable training was provided, but capacity remained weak
particularly with regard to putting into action the acquired knowledge and skills with regard
to financial management, budgeting and cost recovery (Beneficiary Assessment on
Institutional Strengthening Component). The Assemblies appear to be relying on the private
sector and communities to undertake the operations and maintenance of the facilities, but not
providing the necessary supervision, regulation, monitoring, advocacy and funding that is
required to initiate and sustain the systems,
                                                23


IMPLEMENTING AGENCY

2.82 The performance of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is rated satisfactory. The
PCU was staffed with highly qualified and experienced staff who were familiar with Bank
policies and procedures. It was well integrated in the government’s structure. It undertook its
responsibilities with respect to reporting requirements to the Bank and coordinated
implementation with the five Municipal Assemblies providing them with the required
support.

2.83    The overall government performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

M&E DESIGN

2.84 The adequacy of the M&E design was mixed for a project with such a multi-faceted
set of objectives. There is only one project development objectives (PDO) indicator that aims
to measure the reduction in complaints about refuse collection and flooding. Five
intermediate indicators address the five components of the project: (i) reduced flooding; (ii)
access to toilets; (iii) increase in refuse collection (no. of towns); (iv) length of roads; and (v)
establishment of Waste Management Departments. The PDO indicator includes two activities
(drainage and solid waste) with one target (15 percent), while the first intermediate indicator
almost repeats the PDO indicators on flood reduction with a different target (50 percent).

2.85 There were no indicators that would directly link the impact of the project on public
health (environmental health); access to sanitation was used as a proxy. Sustainability was
measured through the indicator on equipment in working condition. There was no measure to
verify empirically that the project was addressing poorer neighborhoods. It was planned that
baseline indicators would be available; mid-term and final indicators would be collected
through surveys. Collection of data was assigned to four separate entities, and the details of
O&M implementation was included in the project implementation manual. The project did
not collect baseline data at the start of the project and IEG mission was unable to get
additional data.

M&E IMPLEMENTATION

2.86 Project monitoring comprised the monitoring of the progress work and progress
towards achieving the objectives. Project monitoring was intensified during Bank supervision
missions. The number of beneficiaries of the latrines component was not actual but was
estimated based on design criteria (10-12 person/household toilet, and about 40 people per
institutional toilet). Surveys or beneficiary assessments were undertaken at the end of the
project. Bank supervision routinely reported on the monitoring framework.

M&E UTILIZATION

2.87 The M&E was used to monitor physical progress of work as well as progress toward
achievements of targets in the M&E framework. End of project surveys contributed to raising
awareness with regards to weaknesses in operations and maintenance and the lack of overall
                                            24


monitoring of physical assets and impacts. Lessons learned were used in subsequent Bank
operations. Officials were aware of the challenges and deficiencies of O&M and in
monitoring of outcomes for policy development. Attention to O&M is now on the
government’s agenda.

2.88   Overall, M&E is rated modest.
                                              25


3. Small Towns and Villages Water Supply and Sanitation
Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

3.1     The objective of the project as defined in the Development Credit Agreement (39710-
GH), p. 15, dated August 13, 2004, was to “increase access to sustainable water supply and
sanitation services in small towns in six regions of the Borrower”.

3.2     The project was the second phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). According
to the PAD, the original objective of the APL was defined in 1999 “to support the
Government of Ghana to extend the coverage of sustainable water and sanitation facilities to
85 percent of the rural population by the year 2009 and establish a sustainable operations and
maintenance system in rural communities and small towns.” With the introduction of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the MDG targets (halve the number of people
without access to sustainable safe drinking water and basic sanitation) became the focus of
the APL objective. In addressing the new program goal, the PAD for this project adds the
following to the project objective: to provide 500,000 people with water supply facilities and
50,000 with sanitary facilities to achieve the water and sanitation MDGs.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

3.3     This Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project was approved three months
(July 2004) after the Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project above (April 2004).
Similarly, the objectives of the project were highly relevant to government and World Bank
strategies applicable at the time and continue to be highly relevant under the current
strategies. The project was set in a decentralized framework being implemented by the
government and supported by the Bank. The project focused on the provision of water supply
and sanitation in deprived towns to contribute to the Millennium Development Goals. The
project was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2004-2007 dated February
20, 2004. Under Pillar II (Service Provision for Human Development), the project
contributed to objective of increasing access to sustainable water and sanitation. This project
along with several other rural and urban infrastructure services (with a focus on water and
sanitation) formed the core of the Bank’s assistance to support the government’s strategy.

3.4     At project closure, the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS August 20, 2013: FY13-
16), water and sanitation services remained on the development agenda as highly important
to continue the good performance in economic growth and poverty reduction in Ghana. Pillar
3 of the CPS: Protecting the poor and vulnerable includes improving access to water and
sanitation as one of its three core tools. According to the 2010 census, 61 percent and 82
percent of Ghana’s rural and urban population respectively lack access to appropriate
sanitation methods. Investments did not keep up with economic and population growth and
the urbanization rate. The current CPS emphasizes water and sanitation as key to the Ghana’s
prosperity. The objectives were reaffirmed in other documents including Ghana’s Medium
                                              26


Term Development Policy Framework (2010-2013), Poverty Reduction Strategy (2006-
2009), Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda (2010-2013) as well as Ghana’s
Millennium Development Goals (MDG) (see chapter 1 “Background and Context for details
on MDG).

3.5     The Community Water and Sanitation Agency, under the Ministry of Water
Resources, Works and Housing has published the National Community Water and Sanitation
Strategy (March 2014) which continues to emphasize the importance of, and plans for,
improvements in rural water and sanitation in Ghana. As mentioned earlier, Ghana has been
active in the development of the Sustainable Development goals and has taken steps to
streamline Goal 6 into the national programs for water and sanitation at all levels of
government and at community levels.

DESIGN

3.6     The project is a second phase in an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The project
covered six regions: Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Upper East, Upper West, Central, and Western,
and consisted of three components, the same as those in the first phase of the APL: the
Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP). The project addressed water supply and
sanitation provision in small towns, and provided for institution building and capacity
enhancement of several sector institutions. The main difference between the first phase and
this project was that the second phase focused on water and sanitation in small towns rather
than smaller villages.

Component 1: Community Subprojects Component: (original cost US$24.8 million;
revised cost US$ 50.0 million, actual cost US$42.5 million). This component provided
resources for water and sanitation services in: (a) small towns subprojects planned but not
implemented under the first phase; (b) new small town systems; (c) rehabilitation of small
towns systems; and (d) institutional and household sanitation facilities and hygiene
promotion activities in small towns.

This component was designed to provide assistance to small towns and schools through
grants to their District Assemblies for: (i) the construction/rehabilitation of water and
sanitation facilities; and (ii) financing upfront technical assistance and community
development activities to strengthen the capacity of small towns to plan, implement, operate
and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an effective and sustainable manner.
Subprojects were to respond to community demand, required a financial contribution from
the small towns and the District Assemblies (5 percent each for water supply and for
institutional latrines and 50 percent for household sanitation), and was to be accompanied by
community development and technical assistance support. The target groups for this
component were dwellers in small towns in six regions of the country. The component was
expected to improve quality of life in several ways, including a reduction in the incidence of
water-borne and excreta-related diseases, as well as increased time-savings, productivity, and
school enrollment for girls and boys.
                                               27


Component 2: Sector Support: (original cost US$3.7 million; revised cost US$4.66
million, actual cost US$6.3 million). This component was designed to support training and
technical assistance for stakeholders to improve their capacity to fulfill their sector roles
including support to:


       (a) District Assemblies, District Works Departments, and their District Water and
           Sanitation Teams (DWST); funds were allocated on an annual basis to provide
           basic equipment, such as computers and motorbikes; in addition, practical training
           was to be provided in procurement, contract management, accounting, hygiene
           and sanitation, and community participation. Support was to be provided to the
           DWSTs to finance the incremental operational costs associated with project
           management. Guidelines and eligibility criteria for disbursement were included in
           the project operational manual;
       (b) Local providers of goods and services, through a voucher scheme to facilitate
           demand-driven training for the private sector and Community Based
           Organizations;
       (c) Development of training materials (such as community and district operational
           manuals) and studies related to M&E;
       (d) Regional structures involved in project monitoring, such as the Regional
           Coordinating Councils, to receive general orientation on the project and sector
           and specific training in the area of M&E activities, and Regional Water Supply
           Teams (RWST) staff to receive training to address their specific capacity building
           needs; and
       (e) The Directorate for Water in the Ministry of Water Resources Works and Housing
           (MWRWH) to receive training and technical assistance to enable it to fulfill its
           role in planning and monitoring overall rural water supply and sanitation access in
           the country and to monitor progress towards meeting the MDGs.
Component 3: Program Management: (original cost US$2.5 million; revised cost US$3.13
million; actual cost US$2.9 million). This component provided Community Water and
Sanitation Agency (CWSA) (national and regional levels) with a management fee equal to
five percent of the funds disbursed under component 1 to support the incremental costs of
implementing the project. The component was designed to support the CWSA to develop its
role in sector planning, donor coordination, funds mobilization, and program management.
The components aimed to: (a) strengthen the newly created MWH Directorate for Water, (b)
increase the ability of the private sector to provide adequate services; and (c) build the
capacity of districts Community Water and Sanitation Agency and Regional Water Supply
Teams to effectively implement and guide interventions in small towns.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

3.7     The design of the project is substantially relevant to its stated objectives. The first
component provides funding for the construction and rehabilitation of water supply and
sanitation systems in small towns with the objective of reaching 550,000 water users and
50,000 sanitation users. For sustainability of the water and sanitation, the infrastructure
component is supplemented by institutional building components with the aim of improving
                                             28


the monitoring of progress of delivery of services as well as improving other functions of
agencies at the central and local levels. The third component provides funding to ensure
adequate implementation of the project in accordance with Bank requirements. The
implementation arrangements were overly complex and involved several levels of
governments and multiple agencies responding to the requirements of a decentralized
structure. The results framework was deficient with respect to intermediate indicators that
measured the output of the project in terms of numbers (e.g. number of water boards trained,
number of towns submitting applications, number of private service providers), without a
measure of the impact of the project during or after implementation.

Implementation
REVISED COSTS AND OTHER CHANGES

1.1     In August, 2007, the project received additional financing of US$10 million to cover
higher costs due to: (a) escalation in unit costs; and (b) more smaller towns with higher per
capita costs were submitting applications than originally envisaged. In May 2009, the project
received an additional financing of US$15 million to cover the costs of an additional 11
small towns which had below average access to potable water and were experiencing a high
prevalence of water-borne diseases. The target for access to water supply was increased by
50,000 people to reach 550,000 people. During the second restructuring, the closing date of
the project was extended by one year to April 30, 2010. At project closing, US$7.5million
was cancelled. Appendix E table 2 provides the project costs by component.

SAFEGUARDS

3.8     At appraisal, the project was classified as category B for Environmental Assessment.
The project triggered Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement
Policy (OP 4.12). Involuntary resettlement policy was triggered because land acquisition was
necessary for the construction of pumping stations, storage tanks and communal water points.
Safety of Dams Policy (OP/BP 4.37) was not triggered because any dams expected to be built
were not expected to exceed 15 meters in height. The government adopted an Environmental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).
Prior to commencing work on any water supply system, an Environmental Management Plan
was to be prepared in accordance with the principles and institutional procedures established
in the ESMF, and all necessary land and other property was to be acquired, compensation
paid and any resettlement arising from such works was to be carried out in accordance with
the principles and institutional procedures established in the RPF.

Environment

3.9    During implementation, environmental issues were to be addressed in accordance
with the ESMF. Identified potential impacts and mitigation included: (a) water sources must
be checked for quality to confirm water quality standards are met; (b) water sources must be
checked for safe yield and impact on surrounding water sources; (c) water sources must be
designed and constructed to prevent contamination; (d) wastewater at outlets must be
                                             29


disposed of properly; and (e) measures to mitigate erosion and loss of vegetation must be
provided in construction contracts.

Social

3.10 Resettlement: At appraisal, it was expected that a small amount of land would be
needed for pumping stations, storage tanks and communal water points. Construction of these
facilities could cause temporary or permanent loss of land, crops and other means of income
generation. A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared. The project followed a demand-
driven, participatory approach. The principal stakeholders were the small towns that could
benefit from improved systems. The project had a participatory monitoring and evaluation
system, and community members were to be involved in periodically assessing the progress
of the project.

3.11 A review of Bank documents by IEG indicated that attention to the Environmental
and Social requirements was initially weak. By the mid-term review (July 2007), the Bank
team noted that the ESMF and the RPF documents were available, but dissemination and
familiarity with their provisions was limited especially at the District Assemblies and the
communities. This affected the extent of commitment and compliance of the project to the
social and environmental safeguards. The mid-term review noted that Community Water and
Sanitation Agency was slow to take action on initiating the safeguards implementation
despite reminders by the Bank team. In some regions, efforts were made by the Rural Water
and Sanitation Teams to ensure environmental compliance through the consultants and
contractors, but the Bank team reminded officials that the implementation of the ESMF/RPF
should not be left to the consultants.

3.12 In regions where some attempt was made to implement the safeguard provisions, the
focus tended to be on construction and the environmental impacts more than the social
aspects or the post-construction phases. The Bank team made extensive recommendations to
rectify the situation including redistribution and explanation of documents, assigning staff,
documentation and compilation of resettlement issues and how they were resolved. In a July
2009 progress report, Community Water and Sanitation Agency reported on the training
provided and the requirements for safeguards. Construction workers not wearing safety gear
was reported. In May 2009, a Bank mission indicated that compliance with environmental
safeguards was satisfactory with minor infractions. The mission noted that there were
several, though relatively minor cases of land acquisition and compensations for economic
displacements. In Jacobi, Ashanti region, a water tank was built near a primary school posing
a hazard to children. The District Assemblies was planning to relocate the children to a new
school. The mission reminded the District Assemblies that relocation should take place prior
to construction. The mission noted the need for better documentation at the local level and
better reporting to and monitoring by the regional and national representatives of the
Community Water and Sanitation Agency.

3.13 The ICR did not report on safeguards compliance. It reported that Community Water
and Sanitation Agency had good experience and that safeguard issues were addressed, and
required compensation paid. The PPAR does not rate safeguards.
                                              30


FIDUCIARY
Procurement

3.14 According to Bank supervision mission reports, procurement followed the Bank’s
guidelines for procurement of goods and services. For each region participating in the
project, one consultant was engaged to provide services on small water supply systems. The
performance of Regional Water and Sanitation Teams and the District Water and Sanitation
Teams were reviewed during implementation and capacity gaps were identified in: (i)
procurement planning, updating and implementation monitoring, (ii) preparation of bid
evaluation reports, and (iii) contract management. Bank missions often provided training. No
significant procurement process issues were reported. Nevertheless, in some cases there were
some difficulties in contract implementation, supervision, and payments. Procurement
capacity was stronger at the national and regional levels of the Community Water and
Sanitation Agency than at the level of the district and community water supply teams.

Financial Management

3.15 Bank supervision missions reported routinely on financial management issues. The
final supervision mission found compliance with financial management requirements to be
satisfactory. The project had complied with all audit requirements, including for the final
audit report. Audit reports were largely unqualified, and the Bank team reviewed the
auditor’s comments with the Community Water and Sanitation Agency. The mid-term review
(July 2007) included a comprehensive financial management review. It followed up on issues
raised in previous missions, assessed the adequacy of financial management systems
including the readiness of the two new regions (Central and Western) and discussed with
Community Water and Sanitation Agency the issues raised by the external auditors in the
2006 Audit Report. Financial management arrangements were found to be adequate at the
head office and the regions. Timely Financial Management Reports were a challenge due to
the slow response from the districts. The accounting function was managed by a qualified
accountant and four accounts officers. Regional accountants and the district finance officers
were also supported by financial management consultants. Overall Bank missions reported
that budgeting and internal control for project accounts was adequate, with weaknesses noted
at the district levels.

Achievement of Objectives
3.16 The objective of the project as defined in the Development Credit Agreement (39710-
GH), dated August 13, 2004, was to “increase access to sustainable water supply and
sanitation services in small towns in six regions of the Borrower.”

3.17 The technical and beneficiary assessments as well as IEG mission observations were
used to assess the efficacy of the project. The Beneficiary Assessment for the Project was not
available at the time of the preparation of the ICR.
                                              31


3.18   The first sub-objective of increasing access to water supply is rated substantial.


OUTPUTS

3.19 Water supply systems were constructed as planned in a total of 73 communities in 44
Districts of the Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Upper East, Upper West, Central, and Western
regions of Ghana.

OUTCOMES

3.20 The project exceeded its target with regard to water supply, with 562,000 people
(target 550,000) provided with access to potable water, including those in the eleven towns
added in 2009. The monitoring framework did not include targets for increased water supply
and consumption. The economic analysis in the PAD estimated water production in the
project areas at the time was less than 3 million m3 and estimated that the project will
increase production to 7.7 million m3. The analysis also indicated that water consumption at
the time was 10 liters/capita/day (l/c/d) which was to increase to 20 l/c/d/ and 60 l/c/d/
respectively for water from pumps and connections respectively. There were no records to
monitor these indicators at the aggregate levels.

3.21 According to the Beneficiary Assessment, the beneficiaries were satisfied with the
water systems both with regard to the services as well as tariffs. Figure 3.1 provides level of
community satisfaction with standpipes. On the other hand, the Technical Assessment
undertaken at the end of the project found major issues with the systems (see Appendix G).
Of the 14 systems that were visited during the Technical Assessment, only two (representing
14 percent) were functioning as designed. The others were having either electro/mechanical
problems or the bore holes were suspected to be yielding less than expected.

3.22 The IEG mission visited water supply facilities in 3 of the 6 regions covered under
the project. The objective of the visits was to observe facilities that are in good working
condition as well as those that are not. The facilities were selected randomly after discussion
with the CWSA which provided the list of communities that benefitted from the project. The
mission observed that physical facilities of water systems were in working condition and
overall adequately maintained. There were no leakages, and the pump area was dry and
clean. Stand pumps were locked when not in use, and electric pumps were fenced in and
operating. Stakeholders at all levels — national and regional CWSA officers, District
Assemblies and community Water and Sanitation Teams were more aware of the operations
of the water supply systems than for the sanitation systems, and the institutional set up for
reporting malfunctions appeared to be better anchored and understood.

3.23 The water supply installations (hand pumps, electric pumps and water tanks) visited
by the IEG mission were observed to be in satisfactory operating conditions. The difference
between IEG observations and the Technical Assessments is attributed to the continuous
support that the CWSA provides to the communities with regard to water within the follow
up projects by donors, and the stronger institutional framework for water supply.
                                                          32


Figure 3.1. Level of Community Satisfaction with Stand Pipe Locations


                    Percentage

           50            46.9


           40                                   36.4


           30


           20

                                                                                        9.2
           10                                                         7.5


            0
                    Fully Satisfied           Satisfied        Somewhat Satisfied   Not Satisfied



Source: Beneficiary Assessment (April 2011)



3.24 The IEG mission found that larger communities were better organized as they had
subcontracted to professional operators who also maintained the system. These communities
exhibited more organized budgets and books and reported they used computers to maintain
records. One larger town indicated that it is capable of covering O&M costs. Smaller
communities on the other hand exhibited lower capacities. They hired minimal staff to
maintain the system, and kept rudimentary paper records. They indicated they do not use
computers provided by the project. Tariffs differed considerably amongst the communities
visited. An on-the-spot review of available records showed that there was not sufficient
information to determine potential for cost recovery, even for the large community. The
community water management teams indicated that they were facing competition from
private operators who built, owned and operated their own facilities (as opposed to facilities
being concessioned to private operators under the project) and were capable of providing
good service at higher prices. Stakeholders at all levels indicated there is need for sufficient
and timely funding for O&M and for monitoring.
                                              33


3.25 The second sub-objective of increasing access to sanitation through the provision
of household and school latrines is rated Modest.

OUTPUTS

3.26 The project financed the construction of 4,202 private household latrines and 288
institutional latrines. The results framework in the project appraisal document did not set
targets for the number of household and institutional latrines.

OUTCOMES

3.27 The target of sanitation coverage for 50,000 people was met, with 4,202 private and
288 institutional latrines built which served a total of 50,424 and 28,800 people respectively.
The Beneficiary Assessment indicated that beneficiaries were satisfied with the household
latrines, but complained that there was insufficient coverage. However, the Technical
Assessment found a large number of institutional latrines to be not in working order. (See
Appendix G for summaries of the Beneficiary and Technical Assessments).

3.28 The Sector Strengthening component provided support for mass media campaigns for
disseminating hygiene education, including promotion of the global hand washing initiative.
However, the ICR states that “the low level of investment in sanitation and hygiene
education, as well as the strategy of providing subsidy to household latrines without prior
behavior change awareness campaign poses a challenge to the attainment of the Millennium
Development Goals.” Discussions with officials during the IEG mission indicate that after a
large and successful media campaign (with and without the project), overall attention to
hygiene education has dwindled due to lack of funding. Hygiene messages particularly in
schools and near school toilets was evidently lacking. Overall reporting and recording on
sector strengthening activities was not sufficient.

3.29 The IEG mission visited school sanitation facilities in 3 of the 6 regions covered
under the project. The facilities were selected randomly after discussion with the Community
Water and Sanitation Agency and the PCU, which provided the list of communities that
benefitted from the project.

3.30 Public/school latrines that were visited were relatively clean, but appeared to have
deteriorated over time. Broken and empty water tanks and sinks near school toilets were
visible. Other dry toilets were not operated in accordance with the design. Water faucets were
available within the school premises, not directly adjacent to the toilets, and there was no
soap. It was widely reported that in rural areas, where parents cannot afford fees to hire a
janitor for the school, children were trained to clean the bathroom with the supervision of a
teacher. It was also widely reported, that communities around the school were using the
facilities when the school is closed, and often inadequately, adding to deficient maintenance,
and shortening the life of the facility due to use beyond the design capacities. The impact on
the learning environment and experiences of the children due to the situation can be negative.
The absence of hygiene education materials in the toilets and in the schools was noted.
                                             34


3.31 The third sub-objective of sustainable access to water supply services is rated
Substantial while sustainable access to sanitation services is rated Modest.

OUTPUTS

3.32 Seventy three volunteer Water and Sanitation Development Boards (WSDBs) were
formed from the participating communities to be the local governance bodies. The gender
balanced Boards are functioning as designed with their staff fully trained. The IEG mission
visited several WSDBs and noted that they are functioning at varying degrees of capacity
which is positively correlated with the size of the community. Most used paper based simple
records of revenues, and only one large town showed a budget with revenues and
expenditures. All (except for the large WSDB) were not using computers provided. WSDBs
comprised volunteers from the community. Communities above 10,000 population hired paid
technical and financial staff, and were therefore better served than smaller ones who relied
totally on volunteers. Women were well represented in the WSDBs met.

3.33 Staff of 44 District Assemblies were trained in their supervisory functions, including
accounting, procurement and selection of contractors, managing contracts, and other
fiduciary matters. They also learnt appropriate methods for acquiring land and paying proper
compensation to property owners in accordance with the requirements of social safeguard
policies, as well as conflict resolution skills. Each District Assembly developed an annual
District Water and Sanitation Development Plan from which the sub-projects were identified
and prepared.

3.34 Training for 59 private service providers was provided. They comprised contractors
and consultants (drilling, sanitation), area mechanics, small town water system operators and
providers of training and community development services.

3.35 The project worked with the newly mandated decentralized framework in Ghana
utilizing the demand-driven approach, whereby communities, with the help of the District
Assemblies, selected and contributed to the design of sub -projects. To be eligible the
participant towns had to provide 10 percent of the investment costs (5 percent from the
District Assemblies and 5 percent from the community), and commit themselves to the
operation and maintenance of constructed facilities. The 5 percent community contribution
was eliminated during implementation.

3.36 The Community Water and Sanitation Agency produced several manuals and
guidelines to standardize the preparation and implementation of sub-projects including: (a) a
Framework for Assessing and Monitoring Rural and Small Town Water Supply Services, (b)
a District Operational Manual, (c) a How-to-do Guide for Functionality and Service
Monitoring; and (d) a project implementation manual.

OUTCOMES

3.37 Systems were created and capacity has been built in stakeholder institutions to sustain
the financing, operation and maintenance of locally managed water supply and sanitation
services. The IEG mission noted that for water supply, the staff at the national and regional
                                                   35


levels (CWSA and RWSTs) were highly skilled and knowledgeable. District level staff were
also knowledgeable about their areas, but capacities varied according to size of the
community. At the community level Water and Sanitation Development Boards (WSDB)
were responsible for collecting fees for operation and maintenance of the water systems.
WSDBs collected the money from communities. Additional funds were raised when repairs
were needed. District Assemblies had recently introduced the practice of auditing WSDB
accounts.

3.38 The CWSA introduced a formula for tariff setting that includes all costs, and sets
aside funds for replacement and for sanitation. Tariffs varied considerably among the
communities visited, and were generally too low to allow for cost recovery. On the other
hand, it was reported to the IEG mission that private operators who constructed and
maintained their own facilities were more successful in charging higher prices.

3.39 The Borrower's ICR points out that there is a need for a robust Sector Information
System for M&E of not only access to water and sanitation, but of the quality of the services
provided and the financial sustainability of the decentralized and community owned systems.
The establishment of a Sector Information System is being supported by an ongoing IDA
financed project (the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area Sanitation and Water Project).

3.40 Capacities, ownership and attention to school sanitation facilities was a serious
problem, compounded by lack of clear responsibility for operations and maintenance. The
current institutional framework for operations and maintenance of the sanitation facilities is
weak and insufficient to provide the necessary support and oversight.

3.41 Contribution to Program Goals: The project enabled partial progress to be made
towards Ghana's meeting of the Millennium Development Goals.4 Ghana had a mixed record
of achieving Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability. The target of halving the
proportion of the population without access to safe water has been achieved, but poor
sanitation remains pervasive. In the case of water, the target was over achieved with 21
percent of the population not having access to safe water vs. the target of 22 percent. For
sanitation, 84 percent of total population remain without access to improved sanitation vs. the
target of 48 percent.

Efficiency
3.42 At appraisal, a cost benefit analysis was undertaken for the project. It was assumed
that project investments will increase water supply capacity by 4.7 million cubic meters to
7.7 million cubic meters. The project would increase private connections, rehabilitate
networks and improve sanitary conditions. Population growth was assumed to be 3 percent
from a base of 625,000. Water consumption at appraisal was estimated at 10 liters per capita
per day (l/c/d) and expected to reach 20 l/c/d by the end of the project. Consumption in
households connected to the network was estimated to reach 60 l/c/d. Twenty percent of
homes were expected to connect directly to the network. Water was sold for 100 Cedis for an


4
    Ghana – Millennium Development Goals 2015 Report (September 2015)
                                              36


18 liter bucket, while connected households would pay 25 percent more. Revenues were to
cover O&M and potential replacement costs. A standpipe would serve a maximum of 300
people within a 300 meters distance. The direct benefit of the project is the increased
provision of water to the families living in small towns. Indirect benefits included: time
saved in fetching water, health improvement with higher quality water, and improved
hygiene of new latrines. With 20 years life and 12 percent discount rate, a present value of
net benefits was calculated at US$14 million and the internal rate of return was 20.5 percent
for water and 17.8 percent for sanitation.

3.43 At completion a similar cost benefit analysis was undertaken. Assumption on water
consumption (the main quantifiable benefit) remained the same; i.e. actual consumption
figures were not available. Price of water increased from US$0.6/m3 to 1.03/m3. The main
difference was the significant increase in capital costs and associated O&M costs. The
internal rate of return was calculated at 24.4 percent.

3.44 No cost benefit analysis was done for the sanitation component at appraisal or
completion. IEG mission was informed about health benefits from reduction in fecal related
diseases, improved hygiene, and enhanced safety, privacy, and convenience as a result of
provision of household toilets. However, no data was provided.

3.45 The project was provided additional financing of US$ 10 million equivalent (38
percent additional to original credit) to cover cost overruns (due to different size water
systems as well as increases in prices). An additional US$ 15 million was provided to
increase the number of beneficiary communities and total beneficiaries by 50,000 (at a cost
of (US$300/beneficiary). On average, the per capita total cost of the project is US$99/capita
vs. the original plan of US$53 and a revised US$73.8. The estimated cost per beneficiary of
water services doubled from appraisal estimates, while the estimated cost per beneficiary for
sanitation increased by 13 percent. The project was extended for one year.

3.46 There were some operational and administrative inefficiencies. The minority of DA
and communities which stalled in the payment of their 5 percent contribution delayed the
construction of the facilities. The lack of familiarity with safeguards requirements led to
delays in land acquisition and implementation.

3.47   Overall, the efficiency of the project is rated modest.

Project Ratings
OUTCOME

3.48 The objectives of the project respond directly to the strategies of the Government of
Ghana and the Bank, and therefore the relevance of objectives is rated high. The design of
the project is rated substantial because each component aimed to satisfy each of the
objectives stated. There were shortcomings in the overall implementation and monitoring
arrangements that limited the availability of evidence. Efficacy is rated substantial because
the project increased access to sustainable water supply facilities, which represented about 85
percent of the investments and about 90 percent of beneficiaries. On sanitation, access was
                                              37


increased but not in a sustainable manner as water supply have a stronger institutional
support than the sanitation investments. Efficiency is rated modest due to high per capita
costs. Based on these ratings and analysis, the project outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.49 The overall risk to development outcome of the project is substantial. The risk to
development outcome related to water systems is modest as the project assisted in building
institutions and involved communities in the O&M of water sector as discussed below.
However, the risk to access to sanitation outcome is high due to lack of clear responsibility
for O&M.

3.50 Institutional Risks. The CWSA is a professional well-staffed organization with
strong regional outreach. The CWSA has published manuals and procedures to streamline the
installation, operation and maintenance of water supply facilities in rural areas. The project
assisted in pushing capacity building in the District Assemblies who are responsible for these
services in the new decentralized structure. There is heavy reliance on communities to burden
the responsibilities of operating the system. Oversight and monitoring is not strong across the
board, as the responsibility for water and sanitation shifts from the Ministry of Water
Resources and Housing and the CWSA to the District Assemblies and to the Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development at the National Level.

3.51 Financial Risks. The CWSA introduced a formula for tariff setting that includes all
costs, and sets aside funds for replacement and for sanitation. However, tariffs varied
considerably among the communities visited, and were generally too low to allow for cost
recovery. On the other hand, it was reported to the mission that private operators who
constructed and maintained their own facilities were more successful in charging higher
prices. The project has succeeded in engaging communities in the sector and understanding
the necessity of paying fees to maintain the system. Financial reporting and monitoring is not
sufficiently adequate to provide a picture of financial sustainability.

3.52 Social Risks. This is especially relevant to the school sanitation facilities where there
is lack of community stewardship, maintenance and monitoring as well as abuse of school
facilities by the community.

3.53 Technical Risks. The water supply system relies on the community for its operations
and maintenance. In small rural communities, technical capacities are not always adequate.
The shortage of funds and skills become incentives to postpone maintenance. Technical risks
appear to be manageable for water supply, but are high for sanitation, due to the sector’s
novelty and complex challenges.
                                              38



Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

3.54 Quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. The project is a second phase of an
Adaptable Program Loan and has benefitted from experiences of phase 1, which was similar
in nature, except that this phase focused on small towns. The project design benefitted from
other Bank-funded projects in the water supply and sanitation sector in Ghana, while
adapting to new institutional changes such as decentralization. The project complied with all
Bank fiduciary and safeguard requirements. The project team worked well with government
counterparts.

3.55 Despite learning from experiences, there were shortcomings in the preparation of the
project that had an adverse impact on the project including: (a) weak monitoring and
evaluation framework that focused on the physical progress, training and institutional
framework, but had no measures for effectiveness and efficacy of these interventions; (b)
wrong assumptions on size of towns and demand for household latrines; (c) underestimating
costs (coupled with inflation) led to requests for additional financing.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

3.56 The Quality of Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank team was
based in Accra and undertook regular and intense supervision missions. Missions visited sub-
project sites and met with local level stakeholders (District Assembly officials, traditional
authorities, Water and Sanitation Development Boards, consultants, contractors, and
community members). The Bank provided support to the District level and local
implementing bodies, especially in areas such as technical supervision, procurement, and
social and environmental safeguards as well as technical advice in contract supervision.

3.57 The Bank team was proactive in problem solving through restructuring and scaling up
the project. A shortcoming in Bank dialogue was the quick agreement with the government
to waive the 5 percent matching funds from communities when additional financing was
provided, even though it appeared to be a political decision to win an election. This change of
rules at a critical point in project implementation (additional financing) de facto penalized
communities who abided by established rules and gave the wrong signals in the sector.
Although it is recognized that this was the result of a government policy decision, the issue
might have been addressed in the context of policy dialogue at an appropriate level. On the
other hand, the Bank showed flexibility in a difficult environment with great needs in the
sectors. Another shortcoming in the Bank’s supervision was the delayed recognition – until
the mid-term review - that environmental and social safeguards were not being addressed
adequately. Technical supervision and the completion report failed to detect the technical
difficulties faced by the project that were outlined in the Technical Assessment that was done
following project completion.

3.58   The overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
                                              39


Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT

3.59 The Government of Ghana, as represented by the Ministry of Works and Housing
(MWH), which later became the Ministry of Water Resources, Works and Housing
(MWRWH), placed a high priority on improving access to Water Supply and Sanitation to
cover the large gap in service delivery in the country and to reach the agreed Millennium
Development Goals. In implementing the project, government performance suffered
moderate shortcoming. The government’s transfer of funds to District Assemblies (DA) was
irregular and adversely affected the DAs’ ability to pay their 5 percent contribution which
caused delays in implementation (ICR p.35).

3.60 The government diverged from agreed policies for political purposes when it
promised to waive the 5 percent contribution from communities, thus giving the sector a
wrong signal with regard to the government’s resolve to reform the sector and alienating
those who had or were willing to contribute to such projects. The result of waiving the
required 5 percent impacted community ownership and the financial resources available for
operations and maintenance. The government’s performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY

3.61 The project implementation arrangement was complex. The Community Water and
Sanitation Agency (CWSA) at the MWRWH had primary responsibility for guiding,
promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on project
activities. Project implementation was decentralized to CWSA’s regional offices, called
Regional Water and Sanitation Teams in6 regions that provided technical assistance to the
District Assemblies (44) and the private sector. The District Assemblies implemented the
subprojects on behalf of, and in coordination with, the communities in the small towns.

3.62 The project covered a large differentiated geographic area with different
administrations. Few implementation problems were reported. The project faced few delays
with a one year extension to increase coverage. There were weaknesses in safeguards
implementation although this improved overtime (see section on safeguards). The
performance of the implementing agencies is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.63   The overall rating for the government performance is Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

M&E DESIGN

3.64 M&E as explained in the PAD (p.14) was designed as a tool for stakeholders to assess
implementation where objectives and targets can be evaluated. Data for the outcome and
results indicators would come from a variety of sources and would be collected using a
mixture of methodologies: (i) traditional methods of data gathering (i.e. CWSA quarterly
reporting on activities and outputs as well as periodic technical audits of districts); and (ii)
                                               40


participatory methods to bring beneficiaries and implementers together to evaluate
effectiveness and sustainability of activities, and to provide feedback for improving
processes. Annual stakeholder meetings were to be held to share emerging lessons and revise
implementation on a timely basis.

3.65 Responsibilities for M&E were to be held at various levels. Data would be gathered at
the lowest levels and aggregated upwards. Staff at each level would be responsible for M&E,
and the project’s sector support component was to provide needed training. As part of the
government’s decentralization drive to increase the involvement of Regional Coordinating
Council (RCC) which reports to the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
(MLGRD) in the monitoring of activities at the District level, these bodies were to provide
parallel monitoring of project activities at the Districts within their jurisdiction.

3.66 A key task of the M&E system was to report on progress towards meeting the MDG
targets. Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWST) annual work plans would indicate
how the annual plan relates to the MDG targets. RWST quarterly reports would indicate if
activities are on schedule. RWSTs would share these reports to the Regional Coordinating
Committees (RCCs) and to CWSA head office, which would forward them to the MWRWH
for aggregation to the national level.

3.67 In an environment of weak capacity and the introduction of decentralization, the
M&E design was too complex and multi-faceted with several agencies responsible, but with
unclear assignment of responsibilities, particularly for final aggregation of the results of the
many tools and analysis of the outcome.

M&E IMPLEMENTATION

3.68 Given the complexities of the designed M&E framework, the M&E system was not
fully implemented as designed. CWSA and Bank supervision missions reported on the
monitoring framework outlined in the PAD. The results (e.g. beneficiaries reached) were
based on design estimates. RWSTs reported to the CWSA, but the mission found there was
less reporting across the ministries. Coordination with the RCCs (regional representatives of
the MLGRD and overseeing Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies) was weak or
non-existent. The IEG mission noted that reporting to RWSTs became less organized once
facilities were delivered to the community/District Assembly. Reporting on financial issues
was not possible given the variety of account recording and monitoring capacities – which
would be necessary as evidence of reporting the required O&M coverage indicator for
example. Communities undertook meetings to discuss project issues related to the services
provided, aggregating outcomes of those meetings for monitoring and learning was not
possible. A technical and beneficiary assessment was undertaken after project closure (April
2011), and is summarized above, but was not included in the ICR.

M&E UTILIZATION

3.69 In recognition of the importance of monitoring, the CWSA has developed a guide for
functionality and service monitoring (March 2014), and a Framework for Assessing and
Monitoring rural and Small Town Water Supply Services (March 2014). Further efforts are
                                            41


being undertaken to develop a web-based monitoring system to collect data using mobile
phones, analyze data in accordance with sector guidelines, and help communities report
water facility faults, order spare parts and access financing.

3.70   Overall, M&E is rated modest.
                                            42



4. Lessons
  (a) For school toilets to be used in a sustained manner, an integrated hygiene
      education needs to be offered on a continuous basis. A strong hygiene education
      campaign was undertaken throughout Ghana prior and during the two projects.
      Discussions with authorities and visits to schools indicate that the emphasis on the
      implementation of the hygiene education program diminished due to lack of funds.
      Sustained provision of hygiene education (availability of information as well as soap
      and water near toilets) ensures incoming classes continue to learn and use safe
      hygiene practices.
  (b) The concept of Community Ownership and Management is not sufficient to
      ensure sustainability in an environment of weak community stewardship.
      Implementation of regulations, strong monitoring, education and enforcement are
      needed to assure a sustainable operation and maintenance of the facilities. In the case
      of the drainage component in the Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project, the
      communities resorted to old habits of dumping garbage in the rehabilitated drainage
      system. In the case of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project, communities
      surrounding the schools were using the toilets. In both cases, the behavior contributed
      to a faster demise of the infrastructure and increased the costs of operations and
      maintenance.
  (c) Stakeholder analysis and citizens engagement during project and facility design
      is important for assessing the willingness to pay for the services. In the case of the
      Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project, discussions with community
      water management teams indicated that they were facing competition from private
      operators who built, owned and operated their own facilities (as opposed to facilities
      being concessioned to private operators under the project) and were capable of
      providing good service at higher prices.
  (d) Changing the rules of the game for short-term political gains during
      implementation disrupts community involvement and sends the wrong signal to
      communities in terms of the government intentions. In the case of the Small
      Towns Water and Sanitation Project, the decision to exempt communities from the 5
      percent copayment requirement alienated those communities who made the
      contribution, and may increase resistance to payment of other obligations in hopes of
      further changes in Government policies.
                                                43


References
Adai-Yeboah, Alice. 2013. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Beneficiary Assessment
       for the Sanitation and Waste Management Component.
Community Water and Sanitation Agency. 2014a. Annual Report.
Community Water and Sanitation Agency. 2014b.The National Community Water and Sanitation
     Strategy.
Innovative Services Ltd., April 2011 for the Ministry of Water Resources, Works and Housing. Small
        Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project. Implementation Completion Review Report,
        Volume 1.
Innovative Services Ltd. April 2011 for the Ministry of Water Resources, Works and Housing Small
        Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project. Beneficiary Assessment, Volume 2.
Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Beneficiary Assessment for the Institutional
       Strengthening Component. First Draft Report on Sekondi-Takoradi and Kumasi Metropolitan
       Assemblies. J. V. Mensah, Institute for Development Studies, University of Cape Coast,
       April 2013.
Jumpah, Dyson. 2013. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Beneficiary Assessment for
       Drainage and Community Upgrading Component.
UNDP and Ghana National Development Planning Commission – Millennium Development Goals
      2015 Report.
WasteCare Associates. 2015. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Technical Audit of
      Facility Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Management of Engineered Landfill Site at
      Kpone, Near Tema.
World Bank. 2004a. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Project Appraisal Document:
       April 5, 2004.
———. 2004b. Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Project Appraisal Document,
    June 7, 2004
———. 2011. Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Implementation Completion
    Results Report: January 31, 2011.
———. 2013. Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project: Implementation Completion Results
    Report: June 27, 2013.
———. 2015a. Ghana – Poverty and Inequality Profile. June 2015. (p. 17, 18).
———. 2015b. Rising through Cities in Ghana. Ghana Urbanization Review Overview Report. April
    2015
                                                          44



Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet
GHANA – SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT (P082373)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                        FY05     FY06        FY07         FY08   FY09   FY10   FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
Appraisal estimate       1.0      8.7        20.7         34.4   47.9   57.4   62.0      0.0   0.0    0.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            2.6      3.7        5.1          13.9   22.8   30.2   40.3     52.4   61.8   60.6
Actual as % of          260.0    42.5        24.6         40.4   47.6   52.6   65.0      0.0   0.0    0.0
appraisal
Date of last disbursement: September 2013.
Source: World Bank Operations Portal.

Project Dates
                                                     Original                         Actual
Board Approval                                      04/29/2004                   04/29/2004
Effectiveness                                       10/27/2004                   10/27/2004
Closing date                                        06/30/2010                   12/31/2012

Staff Time and Cost

                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                        No. of staff weeks              USD Thousands (including travel
   Stage of Project Cycle                                                     and consultants)
           Lending
                FY03                                                                  22.80
                FY04                               0.23                           145.85
                FY05                           19.47                                   0.00
            Total                                  19.7                               168.65


      Supervision/ICR
                FY05                           35.28                              117.32
                FY06                           43.44                              129.40
                FY07                           31.27                              126.25
                FY08                           50.50                              181.96
            Total:                             160.49                              554.93
                                                    45


Task Team Members
        Names                             Title                Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Gerhard Tschannerl         Task Team Leader                  AFTU2    Task Team Leader
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Alex McPhail                                                 AFTU2    Technical (WSS)
                           Specialist
Charles Boakye             Senior Municipal Engineer         AFTU2    Technical (WSS)
Arthur Swatson             Water and Sanitation Specialist   AFTU2    Technical (WSS)
Karen Hudes                Senior Counsel                    LEGAF    Senior Counsel
Isabelle Paris             Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTS4    Environmental Safeguards
Kofi Awanyo                Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC    Procurement
Tsri Apronti               Procurement Specialist            AFTPC    Procurement
                           Senior Financial Management
Fred Yankey                                                  AFTFM    Financial Management
                           Specialist
                           Sr. Natural Resource Management            Natural Resource
Edward Dwumfour                                              AFTS4
                           Specialist                                 Management
Evelyn Awittor             Operations Officer - Health       AFTH2    Public Health
                           Public Sector Management
Smile Kwawukume                                              AFTPR    Public Sector Management
                           Specialist
Kofi Tsikata               Communications Officer            AFTPX    Communications
Ernestina Attafuah         Sr. Program Assistant             AFTU2    Program Support
Charity Boafu-Portup hy    Team Assistant                    AFT10    Program Support


Supervision/ICR
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Ventura Bengoechea                                           AFTU2    Task Team Leader
                           Specialist
                           Senior Water and Sanitation
Sanyu Lutalo                                                 AFTU2    Primary ICR Author
                           Specialist
Sameer Akbar               Senior Environmental Specialist   ENV      Environmental Safeguards
Beatrix Allah-Mensah       Social Development Specialist     AFTCS    Social Development
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo      Lead Procurement Specialist       EAPPR    Procurement
Charity Boafo-Portuphy     Program Assistant                 AFCW1    Program Support
Charles K. Boakye          Consultant                        AFTUW
John A. Boyle              Consultant                        AFTWR
Samuel Bruce-Smith         Consultant                        AFTDE
Peter Cohen                Consultant                        MNSUR
                           Lead Social Development
Maria Concepcion J. Cruz                                     AFTCS    Social Safeguards
                           Specialist
Robert Wallace DeGraft-
                           Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM    Financial Management
Hanson
                           Senior Water & Sanitation
Ousseynou Diop                                               TWIAF    Water & Sanitation
                           Specialist
Maya El-Azzazi             Program Assistant                 MNSSD    Program Support
                                                  46



         Names                          Title                 Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala    Sector Manager, Water             AFTWR    Manager
                          Lead Social Development
Zarafshan H. Khawaja                                        AFTCS    Social Development
                          Specialist
Seth Larmie               Consultant                        AFTEN
Wolfhart Pohl             Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSS3    Environmental Safeguards
Gifty Sarfo-Mensah        Temporary                         AFCW1    Environmental Safeguards
Harvey D. Van Veldhuizen Lead Environmental Specialist      MIGEP    Environmental Safeguards
                          Senior Financial Management                Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                            AFTFM
                          Specialist
Olivia Nana Esi Ahlijah   Consultant                        AFTUW
                                                       47


GHANA SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (P084015)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                        FY05    FY06        FY07   FY08   FY09     FY10       FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                1.0    7.0         16.0   22.0   26.0      0.0       0.0
Actual (US$M)                            2.5    4.2         11.5   18.6   27.5      41.1      45.5
Actual as % of appraisal                250.0   60.0        71.9   84.5   105.8     0.0       0.0
 Date of last disbursement: June 2011
Source: World Bank Operations Portal.

Project Dates
                                                  Original                        Actual
Board Approval                                   07/27/2004                      07/27/2004
Effectiveness                                    11/17/2004                      11/17/2004
Closing date                                     04/30/2009                      04/30/2010
                                         48


Staff Time and Costs


                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                            No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including travel
   Stage of Project Cycle                                   and consultants)

          Lending
            FY04                   36                             149.62
            FY05                    8                              29.08
           Total                   44                              178.7


      Supervision/ICR
            FY05                   18                             76.013
            FY06                   34                              44.53
            FY07                   32                              54.28
            FY08                   40                             144.03
            FY09                   28                             116.18
            FY10                   25                              52.23
            FY11                    5                              9.36
           Total:                  131                            318.97
                                                     49


Mission Data

         Names                            Title                   Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
         Lending
Paul Kriss                Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist        AFTU2     Team Leader Phase 1
Arthur Majoribanks        Water & Sanitation Specialist            AFTU2     Team Leader Phase 2
Swatson
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti    Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC
Ernestina Attafuah        Senior Program Assistant                 AFTUW
Mbuba Mbungu              Sr. Procurement Specialist               AFTFM
Wendy E. Wakeman          Sr. Community Dev Specialist             MNSSO
Lydia Sam                 Procurement Assistant                    AFC10
Frederick Yankey          Sr. Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Ayman Abu-Haija           Sr. Financial Management Specialist      LOAG2
Kristine Schwebach        Operations Analyst, Environment          AFTS1
Yoav Kislev               Consultant, Economic Analysis
Richard Verspyck          Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist     AFTUW     Quality Team
Alexander A. McPhail      Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist     AFTUW     Quality Team
Christophe Prevost        Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist        ETWSA     Quality Team
Eustache Ouayoro          Sr. Sanitary Engineer                    AFTU2     Quality Team
Robert J. Roche           Lead Sanitary Engineer                   ETWSA     Peer Reviewer
Jennifer J. Sara          Lead Infrastructure Specialist           LCSSD     Peer Reviewer


Supervision
Arthur Majoribanks
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist          AFTU2     TTL No.1
Swatson
Mathewos Woldu            Sr. Economist                          AFTUW     TTL No.2
                          Lead Water and Sanitation
Ventura Bengoechea                                               AFTUW     TTL No.3
                          Specialist
Baba Imoru Abdulai        Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Adu-Gyamfi Abunyewa       Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Beatrix Allah-Mensah      Social Development Specialist          AFTCS
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti    Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Bayo Awosemusi            Lead Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Samuel Bruce-Smith        Consultant                             AFTFM
Robert Wallace DeGraft-
                          Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Hanson
Edward Felix Dwumfour     S.r Environmental Specialist           AFTEN
Maya El-Azzazi            Program Assistant                      MNSSD
Tracy Hart                Sr. Environmental Specialist           ENV
Hassan Madu Kida          Sr. Sanitary Engineer                  AFTUW
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu       Consultant                             AFTPC
                                                   50



        Names                           Title               Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
                         Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt.
Nyaneba E. Nkrumah                                         AFTEN
                         Specialist
Emmanuel Nkrumah         Water & Sanitation Specialist     AFTUW
Lydia Sam                Procurement Assistant             AFCW1
Emmanuel Nkrumah         Water and Sanitation Specialist   AFTUW
Armele Vilceus           Senior Executive Assistant        LCC3C
                         Lead Social Development
Wendy E. Wakeman                                           MNSSO
                         Specialist
Geraldine Agnes Wilson   Team Assistant                    AFCW1
                         Sr. Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                           AFTFM
                         Specialist



Other Project Data

Follow-on Operations
Operation                                                    Amount           Board date
                                                             (US$ million)
Greater Accra Metropolitan Area Sanitation                   150              6 June 2013
and Water Project

Sustainable Rural Water and Sanitation Project
                                                             75               23 June 2010
                                           51


Appendix B.: Locations Visited
SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT (UESP2)

LGPCU Office, ILGS, Accra

Accra Metropolitan Assembly
Covered Landfill at Oblogo
School Toilet at Bubuashie
Storm Drains at Tesano

Tema Municipal Assembly
Tema Metroplitan Assembly Office
Kpone-Katamanso District Assembly Office
Kpone Community Infrastructure Upgrading
Landfill
Bridge/Culvert at Kpone
Storm Drain from Community 11 to SOS
Septage Treatment Facility

Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly
Kumasi Metroplitan Assembly Office
Aboabo Storm Drain
Landfill
Community Infrastructure Upgrading at Aygya
School toilet at Aboabo

Sekondi-Takorad Metropolitan Assembly
Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolitan Assembly Office
Storm Drain near Kojokrom
                                         52


SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT

Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) Head Office

Western Region
Western Region CWSA Office
Aiyinase, Ellembelle District
Asasetre, Ellembelle District
Water facilities, School Latrines

Ashanti Region
Ashanti Region CWSA Office
Atwedie, Asante-Akim South District Assembly
Juaben, Ejisu-Juaben Municipal Assembly
Water facilities, School Latrines

Central Region
Central Region CWSA Office
Assin Achiase & Asamankese, Assin South District Assembly
Water facilities, School Latrines, Derba
                                           53


Appendix C. List of Persons Met

SECOND URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT (UESP2)

Local Government Project Coordinating Unit (LGPCU)
Mr. George Asiedu, Project Coordinator
Mr. Fred Dankwa, Institutional Development Expert
Mr. Lawrence Awuye, Financial Management Consultant

Accra Metropolitan Assembly
Mr. Graham Sarbah, Project Coordinator

Tema Metropolitan Assembly
Mr. Emmanuel A. Nortey, Metropolitan Coordinating Director
Mr. Solomon Noi, Head, Waste Management Department
Mrs. Bertha Essel, Project Coordinator, GAMA
Ms. Lucy Tetteh, Principal Public Health Engineer
Mr. Ali Mohammed, Metropolitan Planning Officer
Mr. Ernest Ijawan, Landfill Supervisor

Kpone-Katamanso District Assembly
Mr. Mohammed A. Yakubu, District Coordinating Director
Mr. Paul Mac Ofori, District Planning Officer
Ms. Augusta Dzadzetor, Assistant Director
Mr. Anthony Nukpenu, Presiding Member

Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolitan Assembly
Mr. Emmanuel Kwashie, Head, Waste Management department
Mr. Is-Haque Ismaila, Operations Manager, WMD
Mr. Ahmed Sulley, Environmental Health Officer
Mr. Jonas Duneebom, Head, WMD
Mr. Godwin Ametewe, Accountant

Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly
Mr. Kojo Bonsu, Metropolitan Chief Executive
Mr. Donkor, Ag. Head, Waste Management Department
Mr. David Agyei, Project Accountant
Mrs. Augustina Agyei-Boateng Information Management Officer, WMD
                                             54


SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT

Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) Head Office
Mr. Clement Bugase, Chief Executive, CWSA
Mr. Owusu Konadu, Water and Sanitation Systems Coordinator, CWSA
Mrs. Theodora Adomako-Adjei, Extension Services Coordinator, CWSA

Community Water and Sanitation Agency, Western Region
Mr. Mike Adjei, Regional Director
Mr. Henry Ampah Johnson, Chief Water and Sanitation Engineer
Mr. Kuupuolo Gaiten Timothy, Chief Extension Services Specialist
Mr. Bismark Siabi-Mensah, Water and Sanitation Engineer
Mrs. Linda Yeboaa Amponsah, Extension Services Specialist
Mr. Bright Jones Obeng, Hydrogeologist
Mr. Ntimfo Sulemana, Accountant

Community Water and Sanitation Agency, Ashanti Region
Mr. Francis K. Enu, Regional Director
Mr. Ernest Agudetse, Chief Extension Services Specialist
Mr. Edward Ackom, Water and Sanitation Engineer
Mr. Seidu Batuga, Accountant
Mr. Seth Nii Dodoo Amoo, Information Technology Specialist
Mrs. Jennifer Quagraine, Administrative Officer

Community Water and Sanitation Agency, Central Region
Mr. Philip Amanor, Regional Director
Mr. Henry Asangbah Chief Water and Sanitation Engineer
Mr. Pauline Abrafi Oppng, Chief Extension Services Specialist
Mr. Richard Attiogbe, Principal Water and Sanitation Engineer
Mr. Gustav Merritt Osiakwan, Principal Hydrogeologist
Mr. Daniel Adomako, Chief Accountant

Assin South District Assembly, Central Region
Nana Kwabena Anomafo, District Chief Executive
Mr. Richard Blebi District Coordinating Director
Mr. Christopher Doku, Environmental Health Officer

Ellembelle District Assembly, Western Region
Mr. George Yeboah, District Water and Sanitation Team Member

Asasetre Water and Sanitation Management Team, Western Region
Mr. Anthony Ndefu Amoah, Board Chairman
Mr. Francis Ebukoro, System Manager
Mr. Abubakr Mohammed, Technical Opertaor
Ms. Georgina Essilfie, Treasurer
Ms. Regina Asaba, Sanitation Coordinator
                                       55


Ms. Christina Coffie, Board Member
Mr. Paul Ahmed, Board Member
Mr. John B. Mensah Board Member
Mr. Amos Ndoli, Board Member

Aiyinase Water and Sanitation Management Team, Western Region
Mr. Mr. A. K. Homiah, Board Chairman
Mr. Ato Tawson Technical Operator
Mr. Albert Morkeh-Roberts, Board Secretary
Mr. Maxwell Amuah Essien, Treasurer
Mrs. Veronica Amakye, Sanitation Coordinator
Mr. Ignatius Amuah Yamekeh, Board Member
Mr. Solomon Bosomtwi, Accountant
Mr. Robert Ackah, Plumber

Juaben Water and Sanitation Management Team, Ashanti Region
Mr. Kwabena Oduro-Kwarteng, System Manager
Ms. Mandelina Cobbinah, Board Member/Assembly member
Mr. George Opoku-Amoako, Board Secretary
Mr. Joyce Fokuo, Board Member
Mr. Hannah Dei-Amoako, Board Member/Assembly member
Mr. Edward Osei, Board Member/Assembly member
Mr. K. Sarpong, Board Member

Atwedie Water and Sanitation Management Team, Ashanti Region
Mr. David Baffuor Owusu, Board Chairman
Ms. Juliet Asantewa Marfo, System Manager
Mr. Abudu Nasiru, Board Secretary
Mr. Gibson Akrasi, Board Member
Mr. Eugene Marfo, Board Member/Assembly member
Mrs. Ophelia Mensah, Board Member
Nana Marfoa, Queen Mother
Nana Kwabena Akrasi, Gyaasehene (Chief)

Asamankese/Achiase Water and Sanitation Management Team, Central Region
Mr. Kumi Mensah, Board Chairman
Ms. Agatha Osei Begyina, Board Treasurer
Mr. Kofi Adu Acheampong, Accountant
Mr. Kwadwo Amissah, Board Member
Mr. Welbeck Prempeh, Board Member
Mr. Kofi Gyamearh, Assembly member
Ms. Asi Fosuaa, Board Member
Mr. Justice Dzekpey, Board Member
Nana Kankam, Board Member
Ms. Ama Adoma, Vendor
                                               56


School Health Education Programme, Ghana Education Service
Ms. Ellen Gyekye, Programme Officer
Mr. William Djan Yirenkyi, Accountant

World Bank Staff

Evaluation Team, World Bank
Kavita Mathur, Evaluation Officer, TTL
Maha Armaly, Consultant, Author
Harold Esseku, Consultant, Technical Advisor
                                                      57


Appendix D. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Ghana – Second Urban Environmental Sanitation Project

Project Costs (US$M), Planned versus Actual Costs

                                           Original        Actual Cost   Actual Cost as % of
                                                                             Appraisal

 Component 1: Storm                          16.50            20.32            123%
 Drainage

 Component 2: Sanitation                      7.75            8.72             112%

 Component 3: Solid Waste                    25.72            15.94             62%
 Management

 Component 4: Community                       8.54            12.95            152%
 Infrastructure

 Component 5: Institutional                   9.57            9.72             102%
 Strengthening

 Component 6: Project                         1.13            2.53             224%
 Management

 PPF Refund                                   0.60            0.60             100%

 Compensation                                                 0.18

 Total Base Line Costs                       69.81            70.96            102%

 Total Contingencies                         11.12

 Total Project                               80.93            70.96             88%

Source: Appraisal Estimates (PAD); Actuals (ICR)
                                                         58


Table 2: Ghana – Small Towns and Villages Water Supply and Sanitation Project

Project Costs by components (US$ millions)

                                   Appraisal        Revised Costs     Actual Costs   Actual Costs as
                                   Estimate        after Additional                  % of Appraisal
                                                      Financing

 Component 1 - Water and             24.81              50.00            42.50           171%
 Sanitation Subprojects

 Component 2 - Sector                 3.71              4.66              6.30           169%
 Support

 Component 3 - Program                2.48              3.13              2.90           117%
 Management



 Total Project                       31.00              57.79            51.70           166%

Source: Appraisal Estimates (PAD); Actuals (ICR)
                                                  59


Appendix E. Safeguards – The Kwabenya Landfill
In 1999 the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DfID) decided to
finance construction of the Kwabenya landfill (based on a 1993 UNDP study). DfID carried out
an Environmental Assessment (EA) and financed an access road and a drainage culvert to the
area as part of preliminary activities towards this effort. The project was dropped due to failure
to reach a resolution of land right claims with local owners and leaseholders. The area was
largely unoccupied then, however, after the construction of the access road with DfID financing,
people moved into the area and started economic activities near the site. The Environmental and
Social Assessment for the landfill under this project used the DfID EA as a basis, which proved
to be deficient under the new circumstances.

The preparation team was aware of the strong opposition even to consultations on compensation
and resettlement which posed a risk to the suitability of the site on social ground. The PAD did
not consider alternative sites and relied on the Resettlement Plan and the prospects for
compensation to change the situation. In 2007, the Agyemankata coalition representing some of
the affected community requested an inspection through the Accra-based Centre on Housing
Rights and Eviction, on the project’s handling of their concerns with the World Bank’s
Inspection Panel. The community claimed that landfill reconstruction will result in involuntary
displacement, and that the site will not be operated and maintained satisfactorily which would
threaten the health of the surrounding communities. The community claimed that the local
authorities were not conducting consultations in accordance with Bank requirements; that
consultation was not meaningful and the community was not well informed of their rights.

The Bank’s Independent Inspection Panel conducted an investigation in March 2009, and found
that the positions of stakeholders have hardened further. The panel noted that the project did not
take all the recommendations of the project’s panel review advice in 2003, and concluded that
the Bank did not comply with several provisions of Bank policies on Environmental Assessment,
Involuntary resettlement, and project supervision, particularly (a) analysis of alternative sites for
a landfill, (b) analysis of impacts in the area; (c) environmental management and resettlement
planning, and resettlement planning.

The Inspection Panel also noted that the Bank and the government tried to consult with a broad
spectrum of potentially affected people, but failed to reach the Agyemankata group. The latter
would not attend public hearings. According to the government, the group detained their
officials, and letters to the group were returned unopened. The Panel acknowledged that, under
the circumstances, it was difficult to take the necessary actions (e.g., consultations, field visits,
and resettlement planning) to comply with Bank Policies and implement the component.
Positions amongst project stakeholders hardened, trust was lost, and the situation reached an
impasse.

In March 2009, the Inspection Panel ruled for better consultation efforts by the Bank. An
updated EA and additional studies were thus conducted for the Resettlement Action Plan. Prior
to completion of the studies, the Bank was notified by the Mayor of Accra in October 2010 to
drop Kwabenya and to reallocate funds to other activities. The ICR noted that until the
complaint, supervision reporting did not flag the critical social and environmental safeguards
                                                60


issues. At the Mid Term Review (October 2010), the request by the government to drop the
Kwabenya site from the project and to reallocate the funds to other activities was finalized.

By the end of the project, construction of the landfill was abandoned. In accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement, the government remained under obligation to compensate
affected people. In April 2012, the government requested Bank approval to use Credit proceeds
to pay compensation for the 76 inhabited structures identified in the draft RAP, while
committing to pay for the land from government funds. A seven month extension of the closing
date (to December 31, 2012) was granted to allow for the processing of payments. The process
was not completed by the closing date: some of the affected people refused compensation, in
hopes to hold onto the land; others claimed that the compensation did not reflect current market
values.

In June 2015, the government informed the Bank that it reversed its earlier decision, and will
revoke the Executive Instrument on which the expropriation was based. By this action, the rights
of the affected people will be restored. This development was determined by the Bank to be a
resolution to the concerns of the requesters and the outstanding issue from the Action Plan.

On October 15, 2015, the Inspection Panel issued its Third and Final Progress Report on the
Implementation of Management's Action Plan in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation
Report. The report concluded that actions on the part of the government to complete the
expropriation at Kwabenya had stalled. No compensation under the RAP was accepted by the
affected people, and some continued to build on the land. These actions reflected the intent of the
affected people to contest the expropriation and to seek to remain in place. The October 2015
inspection report was the last Progress Report concerning implementation of the actions of the
Management Action Plan, as it was deemed to be completed. The Bank informed IEG that it will
continue to follow-up with the government regarding the enactment of the cancellation of the
Executive Instrument and will issue a final note accordingly.
                                                         61


Appendix F. Beneficiary and Technical Assessments
    A. Second Urban Environmental Project
Three beneficiary assessments (BAs) were conducted following the completion of the project
(April/May 2013) in preparation for the ICR. They covered: (a) waste management and
sanitation; (b) drainage and community upgrading; and (c) institutional strengthening.5 The
assessments used focus group discussions and key stakeholder interviews, supplemented with
direct observation, review of administrative records and institutional assessment. These
assessments are summarized first before the assessment of the efficacy of the project. IEG
mission visited some of the sites covered by the beneficiary assessment.

The Waste Management and Sanitation Beneficiary Assessment was conducted in Kumasi,
Secondi Takoradi and Tamale. Eighty households were interviewed in each Metropolitan
Municipal Assembly for a total of 240 beneficiary households in 10 beneficiary communities.
The selection of communities was based on discussions with the PCU and review of project
documents to determine the communities which received infrastructure and services. The
selection of final beneficiaries was done with the help of local leaders and respondents were
stratified by gender, ethnicity (where relevant), household size, and project type (sanitation,
upgrading etc.). Females represented 61.3 percent of respondents. Household size varied from 1-
15 persons. The BA provided insight into the achievements and potential sustainability of the
projects. More than 75 percent of respondents indicated that the sanitation situation is good/very
good compared to 24 percent prior to the project. Access to toilets improved considerably, and
71 percent of respondents found the facilities acceptable. Both males and females give high
priority to household latrines (90 percent of respondents).

The BA provided observation on the status of public and school toilets (table A1). In schools
visited during the BA survey in Kumasi and Sekondi Takoradi, there was no water in the tanks
for flushing, or for hand washing. Only one school indicated that they had a system for providing
regular water for the latrine and had soap in the latrine. In most schools visited the latrines were
locked. School management also complained of their inability to use the facility because of the
lack of water. Lack of water for the school toilet was further confirmed at the BA focus group
discussion with opinion leaders and in the communities. For the sanitation component, 47 and 38
percent of respondents noted improved health and environmental sanitation respectively due to
the sanitation interventions. The Tables below show access to toilets and satisfaction with the
situation before and after the project.




5
  The quality of the Beneficiary Assessments vary. The Waste Management and Sanitation BA and the Institutional
Strengthening BA provide good study results backed by clear data and information. The Drainage and Community
Upgrading BA is descriptive, with less quantitative analysis, but it provides an additional opinion backed by photos
and points to similar conclusions as to need for more effective O&M and community stewardship of the physical
infrastructure.
                                                            62


Table A1. Access to latrines before and after the project (response is in percent)

 Response          Household Latrines                 Public Latrines                   School Latrines
                Before          After               Before        After               Before        After
 Yes                34.2         78.8                86.7          100                 61.3         94.2
 No                 65.8         21.3                13.3           0                  38.8          5.8
                    100          100                 100           100                 100           100
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013


Table A2. Sanitation situation before and after the project
 Situation                                      Before                                       After
                               No. of respondents                %              No. of respondents        %
 Bad                                      43                     17.9                  19                 7.9
 Very bad                                 44                     18.3                   5                 2.1
 Good                                     52                     21.7                  133                55.4
 Not so good                              97                     40.4                  33                 13.8
 Very good                                 4                     1.7                   50                 20.8
 Total                                    240                    100                   240                100
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013

With regard to solid waste collection, the majority of the respondents (68.3 percent) owned
household dustbins. Many of the respondents (70.4 percent) considered solid waste management
as an important priority. Thirty seven percent of the respondents indicated that their waste was
not collected, compared with 49 percent reporting the same prior to the project. Sixty six percent
of respondents noted improved environmental sanitation due to the solid waste interventions.
According to the respondents, factors that would affect the sustainability of the project included
lack of maintenance (68.6 percent), limited resources (18.8 percent), limited capacity (10.6
percent) and lack of supervision (2 percent). Table 2.3 shows methods of waste disposal by
communities.

Table A3. Method of Solid Waste Disposal

                                                    Before the project                       After the project
 Refuse disposal Method                         Total number of          %            Total number of             %
                                                  respondents                           respondents
 Burn                                                  76                31.7                68                  28.3
 Burry it                                              3                 1.3                   9                  3.8
 House to house collection                             7                 2.9                   17                 7.1
 Into water logged areas                               6                 2.5
 Skip                                                 42                 17.5                 125                52.1
 Solid waste dump                                     48                 20
 Throw away into bush                                 58                 24.2                 21                  8.8
 Total                                                240                100                  240                100.0
Source: Beneficiary Assessment May 2013
                                                63




The Beneficiary Assessment for the Drainage and Community Upgrades Component used
focus group and stakeholder interviews. The number of interviewees was not provided and the
questions were theoretical (views on efficiency, effectiveness, and impact). Distributive analysis
of responses were not provided. Photos show some of the drains were in a better working
conditions than others; and community infrastructure upgrading showed improvements in the
quality of the surrounding living environments.

The BA concludes that the outcomes of the project are sustainable if the project beneficiaries
become more responsible in safeguarding public facilities and avoid the indiscriminate practice
of dumping waste in the drains. Some of the drains visited were filled with waste resulting in
stagnant water. Street lights installed to improve safety and security were observed to be
malfunctioning. The BA considered the storm drainage to be successful: the component targeted
high density low income urban neighborhoods. The outcome was reduced frequency, severity,
and duration of flooding. The community infrastructure upgrading provided better access to high
density neighborhoods which were difficult or impossible to access with motor vehicle, less
flooding, erosion and dust, safety at night, fewer pipe breakages, more registered water
consumers, and improved sanitation.

The Beneficiary Assessment of the Institutional Strengthening Component (ISC). The BA
was conducted in Kumasi and Sekondi Takoradi. A total of 94 staff from various departments
were selected from both Municipal Assemblies of which 64 responded; 65 percent were male.
The data was stratified by age, sex, and department and type of training. For selecting the sample
size, the BA relied on discussions and estimates from departmental staff because the total
number of trainees was not available. The BA concluded:

   (a) At least 10 departments in each of the MAs benefited from the ISC. This was in the form
       of equipment (including vehicles) supply; office renovation or refurbishment, and staff
       training;
   (b) Investments in the priority areas of waste management and environmental health were
       relevant and have multiplier effects in improved health of the beneficiaries;
   (c) 802 employees in Sekondi Takoradi and 610 employees in Kumasi benefited from
       training courses; training was extended to employees from relevant stakeholder
       departments such as the Ghana Health Service and Ghana Education Service;
   (d) Training provided enhanced work output, but there were complaints of the difficulty of
       attending multiple courses run in a short a time;
   (e) Both Municipal Assemblies worked in partnership with private waste collection operators
       in the area of solid waste management;
   (f) The Kumasi Municipal Assembly had functional Drainage Maintenance Unit due to the
       support received from the project. Sekondi Takoradi received two well-constructed drains
       that were not adequately managed, and one uncompleted drainage system;
   (g) The practice of the ‘lowest bidder wins’ principle led to the supply of poor quality of
       goods and services by some consultants and contractors. Funds from Nordic
       Development Fund to recondition waste management equipment could not be accessed
       due to procurement evaluation difficulties.
                                               64


A large majority (92 percent) of the respondents indicated that the training courses were either
useful or very useful. Satisfaction by individual subjects (e.g. billing and collections,
information technology, waste and drainage management), satisfaction was reported as not very
high but that is because the analysis included all the sample employees whether they worked or
did not work on the subject.
                                                65


   B. Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
The Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) engaged a consultant to assess the
technical and social aspects of the project. Two separate reports were prepared — a Technical
Report and a Beneficiary Assessment. This consultancy process started late, and the consultant
report became available only in April 2011. The reports were therefore not available for the
government or to the Bank’s during the preparation of the ICR (January 2011). A summary of
the reports is provided as a background to evaluate the efficacy of the project.

The Technical Report agreed (but with caveats, below) with the CWSA final report that the
project achieved its objectives because planned physical assets were installed in the selected
communities and the target populations were provided with the water supply and sanitation
services. The Beneficiary Assessment report indicated, but without evidence, that the project
contributed to minimizing the incidence of water and sanitation related diseases in the
beneficiary communities. The DAs were empowered to take on their responsibilities for projects
in the water and sanitation sector.

The Technical Report revealed deficiencies in the technical implementation of the project
activities based on observations during field visits. Inadequate record keeping made it unclear if
revenue of many of the Water and Sanitation Development Boards (WSDBs) could cover their
O&M expenses. Some of the water supply systems were not functioning at the time of the visit.
Overall, capacity in the WSDBs, DAs, and the private sector was not adequately developed.
Most of the DAs and Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWST) seemed poorly resourced to
play their role as they complained of inadequate staffing and logistics support.

The Technical Report noted that supervision of contract works in some cases fell short of
required standards. Many of the water systems newly constructed were malfunctioning. Table
3.1 below shows that 18 of the 35 systems inspected in the six regions were not functioning, a
defective ratio of 51.4 percent.

Of the 14 systems that were visited - 12 in the official survey and additional two — only two
(representing 14 percent) were functioning as designed. The others were having either
electro/mechanical problems or the boreholes were suspected to be yielding less than expected.
None of the four institutional latrines at Adubease were completed and the contractor could not
be traced.

All districts visited had structures to sustain O&M, except for Bongo and Busa, In the case of
Bongo, the Board was not effective and the operators needed training in O&M to be able to
operate the system satisfactorily. Busa’s system was operating below the expected capacity.
Apart from Lawra in the Upper West region and Yeji in the Brong-Ahafo region, all other
systems are managed by the Water Boards. These Boards invariably employed a Manager and
Operators to run the systems. Lawra and Yeji, however, have private operators. The Lawra
private operator was performing very well.
                                                        66



Table B.1. State of Operation of Water Systems Inspected
 Regions         Community          Number    Number      Number     Nature of   Comments
                                    of Water Functioning    not        Fault
                                    Systems              Functioning
                                    Provided
 Ashanti         Atwidie                3        1           2       Defective  Burden on
                                                                     Pump       one pump
                 Juabeng                3         1          2       Pump got   Burden on
                                                                     burnt      one pump
                 Jinijini               3        2           1       Low yield  Contract to
                                                                                rectify
 Brong-          Aworowa                 3          1         2      Water not Burden on
 Ahafo                                                               yielding   one pump
 Central         Mfoum                   2          1         1      Defective Contractor
 Region                                                              Pump       to replace
                 Assin                   3          2         1      Low yield Contractor
                 Edubeasi                                                       to rectify
 Upper East      Garu                    3          1         2      Yet to     90 percent
 Region                                                              completed completed
                 Bongo                   3          1         2      Iron       Burden on
                                                                     content in one pump
                                                                     water
 Upper           - Lawra                 3          2         1      Low yield Contractor
 West                                                                           to rectify
 Region          Busa                    3          2         1      Pump got Contractor
                                                                     burnt      to rectify
 Western         Manso                   3          1         2      Pump got Burden on
 Region          Amenfi                                              burnt      one pump
                 Aiyinasi                3          2         1      Iron       No funds
                                                                     content in to install
                                                                     water      iron
                                                                                extractor
Source: Technical Assessment Report (April 2011).


The Beneficiary Assessment (BA) covered the six regions supported by the project. The sample
included 12 beneficiary communities from 12 districts, two in each region. The BA relied on
extensive semi-structured interviews with 1069 household heads. Focus groups and desk reviews
were also used. The BA reported that although 37 percent of respondents could not tell who
made the decisions on sites of the facilities, 83 percent were satisfied with the location of the
hand pumps. While 36 percent of respondents said they were involved in tariff setting, 70
percent were satisfied with the tariff level. Seventy six percent of the respondents use the water
from the provided facilities always, while 15 percent use it sometimes, 76.5 percent considered
the water not very far, the rest considered it far or very far. Seventy five percent were satisfied
with the quantity of water, and 85 percent were satisfied with the quality, with 79 percent of
those not satisfied because of the taste.
                                                          67


Figure B1. Level of Community Satisfaction with Stand Pipe Locations


                     Percentage

           50                46.9


           40                                   36.4


           30


           20

                                                                                               9.2
           10                                                         7.5


            0
                     Fully Satisfied          Satisfied        Somewhat Satisfied          Not Satisfied




Source: Beneficiary Assessment (April 2011)

Figure B2. Level of Community Satisfaction with Tariff Levels



          Not satisfied
         with tariff level
              30%




                                                                      Satisfaction with
                                                                      tariff level - Yes
                                                                             70%




Source: Beneficiary Assessment (April 2011)



The BA showed that 65.8 percent of respondents were aware of the sanitation and hygiene
promotion component. The majority (86.4 percent) associated the program with household
latrines, while 57 percent knew about the institutional latrines, and 32 percent knew about the
handwashing with soap campaign (many respondents knew about more than one of the
                                                68


components). The study found that 48 percent of respondents had household latrines.
Beneficiaries were very satisfied with the toilets and over-subscribed the program. The majority
(59 percent) of respondents were satisfied with the latrines program, while 41 percent were not
satisfied. Of those not satisfied, 80 percent were not satisfied with the distribution of latrines.
Hand washing was the most remembered (85 percent) hygiene education followed by prevention
of open defecation (50 percent). Disposal of excreta was the least remembered at 31 percent.

The Beneficiary Assessment concluded that beneficiaries were satisfied with the water service
improvements (satisfaction with final work was at 77 percent). On the other hand, the Technical
Assessments found widespread malfunctioning of the installations. The discrepancy between the
technical and perceived achievements is likely due to the low level of water services prior to the
project when villagers had to travel distances to get water that was not always clean.
