 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14631

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Ghana
             Project ID: P082373                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Gh Second Urban               Project Costs (US$M):                      80.93                70.96
                         Environmental
                         Sanitation Project
  L/C Number:            C3889                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      62.00                60.68
      Sector Board:      Water                         Cofinancing (US$M):                      10.35                 9.12

           Cofinanciers: Norwegian Trust Fund         Board Approval Date :                                04/29/2004
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2010         12/31/2012
          Sector(s):       General water sanitation and flood protection sector (85%); Sub-national government
                           administration (8%); Roads and highways (5%); General education sector (2%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (33% - P); Pollution management and
                           environmental health (17% - S); Other urban development (17% - S); Other human
                           development (17% - S); Natural disaster management (16% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Elaine Wee-Ling Ooi        Fernando Manibog        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective (PDO) as stated in the Financing Agreement was: “To improve urban living
conditions in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale and Tema in regard to environmental health, sanitation,
drainage, vehicular access, and solid waste management in a sustainable fashion, with special emphasis on the
poor”. The PAD had the same PDO statement without specifically naming the five cities.

The general approach of the preceding Urban Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP) I prevailed under UESP II, the
project under review. Many of the activities in UESP I were also supported in UESP II, including the scaling up of
many investments initiated by UESP I. In UESP II, the Metropolitan and Municipal Authorities (MMA) were given
increased responsibility for implementing the project and special provisions were made to build their institutional
capacity by the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1 - Storm Drainage (Planned: US$16.50 million, Actual US$20.32 million). This comprised
lining of primary and secondary drains, construction of small bridges, and erosion control in all five MMAs.

Component 2 - Sanitation (Planned: US$7.75 million, Actual US$ 8.72 million). This provided for: (a) construction of
household latrines and establishment of a domestic latrine delivery program; (b) rehabilitation and construction of
public latrines in public places; (c) rehabilitation and construction of school latrines combined with hygiene education
and the provision of water supply where needed; (d) rehabilitation or construction of septage treatment facilities; and
(e) improved sewerage management in Tema. These services follow a prioritized list of households, schools and
public areas which are eligible/deserving and in accordance with the MMA’s strategic sanitation plans.

Component 3 - Solid Waste Manageme nt (Planned: US$25.72 million, Actual US $15.94 million): This component
was to provide for: (a) construction of new sanitary landfills for Accra and Tema, and the completion of another in
Sekondi-Takoradi; (b) equipment for sanitary landfills; (c) closure, and rehabilitation of existing unsanitary and
polluting refuse dumps; (d) operation of sanitary landfills and/or improved operation of others; (e) private solid waste
collection; and (f) supply of household bins, skips and skip pads.

Component 4 – Community Infrastructure Upgrading (Planned: US$8.54 million, Actual US$12.95 million). This
component included infrastructure upgrading in low-income communities, consisting mainly of roadside drains, street
lighting, water supply, sanitation and reliable all-weather access roads to previously difficult to access communities.

Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening (Planned: US$9.57 million, Actual US$ 9.72 million) Financed by the
Norwegian Development Fund, it provided for: (a) technical assistance and training, (b) capacity building in MLGRD
and other central agencies, (c) capacity building in MAs, (d) malaria vector control and HIV/AIDS prevention, (e)
project-wide monitoring, (f) reconditioning of waste management equipment, (g) house numbering, and (h) a
communications strategy

Component 6 – Project Management (Planned: US$1.13 million, Actual US$ 2.53 million).

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: Final project cost was US$70.96 million against US$80.93 million estimated at appraisal. The ICR noted
that part of this discrepancy was due to the fact that most of beneficiary and MMA contributions were given in kind. It
was difficult for the project accounts to fully capture the actual amounts. Additionally due to exchange rate
fluctuations, the project earned exchange gains of US$1.936 million.

Borrower and Other Contributions: The contributions from municipalities and the government were US$3.27 million
and US$2.37 million respectively. Contributions from local communities were higher than at appraisal (US$ 3.99
million against US$2.96 million) due to the higher demand for private latrines.

Dates: The original closing date for the project was June 30 2010, but the project was restructured three times for a
total extension of two and a half years to close on December 31, 2012. Project delays were caused by unexpected
prolonged heavy rains, delayed government and MMA counterpart funds, lack of operational and financial
management capacity of the MMAs, and public opposition to the Kwabenya Sanitary Landfill for Accra. There was no
change to project outcomes in the restructurings.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

The five cities account for about half of Ghana’s urban population and more than 25% of the total population. Many
had migrated there in search of jobs and other opportunities. According to the MDG 2010 Report more than 70% of
Ghana's urban dwellers live in slum-like conditions. The project is thus highly relevant to Ghana’s development
priorities as embodied in the Environmental Sanitation Policy (revised in 2010), and Ghana’s Medium Term
Development Policy Framework (2010-2013). Both underscored the importance of environmental sanitation. The
project is also consistent with the the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (2013-2016) where one of the pillars was
on strategic infrastructure, support for urban services, improved sanitation and water supply. The PDO also
addressed sustainability, a critical issue for infrastructure projects.

b. Relevance of Design:

Modest

The Results Framework did not have a strong causal chain linking project interventions to some of the key project
objectives. Sustainability and targeting of the poor were important goals but they were not included in the results
framework. The project had intended to improve municipal financial systems (PAD, page 40) to mobilize revenue and
recover costs, through local taxation and pricing of public services. Given how under-resourced the MMAs were, it
was all the more important for the framework to show where and how funds would be mobilized to sustain the civil
works and services. Fund transfers from the central government, if expected, should have also been reflected in the
framework. New landfills tend to draw opposition from communities, yet this risk that was not assessed during project
design together with mitigation measures.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Substantial

The PDO was to improve urban living conditions in the five towns with respect to environmental health, sanitation,
drainage, vehicular access, solid waste management in a sustainable fashion, with special emphasis on the poor.

On balance, project achievements in drainage, sanitation and solid waste management were substantial, but two
important facilities were not completed, namely, the Accra Septage facilitiy and the Kwabenya landfill, which met stiff
opposition from people living near to the site. Upgrading of small roads, side drains and street lighting in 14
communities helped improve vehicular access and security, and was perceived by these communities to have helped
increase socio economic activity. The ICR provided very little data on environmental health achievements.

Evidence for the project's achievements include three external studies/assessments that were conducted in April-May
2013, after the project closed in December 2012. They covered drainage, sanitation, solid waste management,
upgrading of small community infrastructure (local roads, erosion prevention, bridges), and institutional strengthening
of the financial, technical and management units in each of the municipality/town. The assessments used focus group
discussions and key stakeholder interviews, supplemented with direct observation, review of administrative records
and institutional assessment. The respondents selected were representative of the different stakeholders of project
interventions. Respondents included 350 households, 50 project staff (plus on-site contractors, NGOs, local leaders)
and 64 technical staff from the municipalities. The project team was satisfied with the quality of the studies and
informed IEG that the results complemented the project’s own data collection and administrative records.

The outputs and outcomes for each of the areas of intervention are presented below.


(1) Improved Sanitation

The project aimed to improve environmental sanitation by increasing access to sanitary toilets, improve treatment of
septage waste/sewerage, and initiate a domestic latrine delivery program with private sector artisans. This was
carried out in accordance with the Strategic Sanitation Plans (SSP) that had been developed by all the MMAs in
UESP I. The SSPs had prioritized lists of households/communities/schools drawn from the cities’ low-income
residents. The SSP also outlined the financing and management arrangements (subsidies, etc) to be applied to these
communities.

Outputs
  Demand for household latrines was high (8500 against target of 8200) but only 36 public latrines (target was 91)
    and 139 school latrines (target 167) were built. This was due to the much higher than expected demand for
    individual household latrines.
  Local artisans were successfully used to market and administer the project's household latrine activities. (One of
    the broad goals of the SSP was to shift from public to household latrines).
  A school hygiene and sanitation promotion program accompanied the school sanitation upgrading activities.
  The project did not complete the expansion of the Accra Septage facility nor the rehabilitation of the access road
    to the Tema septage treatment facility.

Outcomes
  The sanitation needs of an estimated 239,000 people have been met. 166,000 private household residents now
    have sanitary latrines, an additional 24,000 people have access to public/communal toilets, and 49,000 school
    children to school latrines. The planned targets were 160,000 private household residents, 70,000 public toilet
    users and 70,000 school children.
  The project conducted 3 external studies which included beneficiary assessments of project activities in the 5
    towns. The beneficiary studies reported that the availability of school latrines has increased school attendance of
    girls in the northern city of Tamale.
  Project information, education and communication (IEC) activities which accompanied the infrastructure
    upgrading have helped foster hygiene behavior change. This has not been universally successful, especially in
    the school sanitation component A few school latrines were reportedly locked, or fouled. For some this was due
     to the lack/ inability to secure regular water source to flush the latrines.
    The sustained operation and maintenance of the private household latrines (the most important sanitation
     component) is likely to be high. At 50% subsidy by the project, households had paid an additional $40-150 for
     their latrine.
    The sustainable O&M of the public and school latrines was varied. It depended on the financial capacity of the
     concerned schools or community.


2) Improved Drainage

Outputs
  The project completed all planned targets for storm drainage, which was the largest cost item under the project.
  The project completed the reconstruction, and lining of a total of 16.8 km of primary and secondary storm drains
    in Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi, and Tema as planned.
  Small bridges were constructed and erosion control was undertaken. The activities were informed by a
    comprehensive drainage study and master plan conducted in the 1990s.

Outcomes
  The ICR reported substantially improved drainage, and a reduction in the frequency, severity, and duration of
    floods in the project areas.
  Accessibility in the affected areas has improved, and stagnant water which allowed the malaria carrying
    anopheles mosquitoes to breed was significantly reduced. Hence the improved drainage has helped improve
    public safety and public health. (These were consistent with the findings of the external end-of-project studies).
  Property prices have also reportedly gone up in the affected areas but this had not been independently validated.


    Based on responses in the Beneficiary Assessment of residents and government officials, the ICR reported
     substantially improved drainage, and reduced frequency, severity, and duration of floods in the project areas.
    The drains have also helped improve vehicular access to some previously unpassable areas. To some
     beneficiaries, property prices have gone up, but this has not been independently validated.
    The ICR also reported that the improved drains have helped reduce public health hazards such as stagnant water
     in which malaria carrying mosquitoes may breed.


(3) Solid Waste Management

The project contributed to the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally responsible manner, and
improved the overall environmental conditions in project sites through closure of unsafe/unsanitary dumps, and the
opening up of new sanitary landfills

Outputs:
  The planned US$10 million, 190-acre Kwebenya landfill for Accra was ultimately abandoned. Due to strong and
    sustained opposition by people living near the proposed site, the Mayor of Accra notified IDA of this decision. All
    other planned solid waste management activities were carried out.
  Two sanitary landfills were completed (a new $5 million Tema landfill, and the Sekondi-Takoradi landfill which
    had been started during the UESP I).
  Before the new or improved landfills were operational, old landfills were renovated (exact numbers were not
    provided) in order to improve waste management in the interim.
  Old sites at Accra, Takoradi and Tema were closed. The project carried out the required treatment of leachate,
    venting of methane gas, contouring and stabilization of the soil, and fencing off the sites. The project also made
    alternative provisions for the livelihood of scavengers who worked on these sites. Some were relocated to the
    new sites.
  The 2 new landfills were equipped with new equipment (front loaders, compactors, tipper trucks, water tankers
    etc) and landfill staff were trained in their use.
  Households were provided with refuse bins and waste containers.
  The project contracted out (on a competitive basis) the collection, transport and disposal of solid waste in 4 of the
    cities (except Accra). The outsourcing to the private sector had been piloted under UESP I.

Outcomes:
  A system for proper solid waste collection, management and disposal has been instituted in all 5 cities:
    unsanitary landfills were either closed or improved, and staff have been trained to operate the new equipment
    that has been provided. Scavengers from the old waste dumps were organized into associations and were
    trained to maintain basic safety standards such as the use of protective gear.
    As planned, private sector companies now collect and transport solid waste to the landfills in four project cities.
    Beneficiaries from the project sites reported improved conditions, and changed behavior due to the expanded
     waste collection, completion of the 2 new landfills and health education campaigns.
    The beneficiary survey for Kumasi, Tema, Tamale and Sekondi-Takoradi found that 52% of survey respondents
     (240 households) now throw their trash into project provided skips compared to 37 % before the project. Only 9
     % of respondents dump waste into the bush compared to 25% before the project. But thirty percent of the
     respondents still burn their solid waste. The project has not yet reached all households. Only 63% of the
     respondents have their refuse collected. (This contrasts with the ICR’s own reporting on page iii which estimated
     that 39% new households have received refuse bins.)
    Closure of the 3 unsanitary dumps has improved the surrounding environmental and living conditions. Some of
     the reclaimed sites are being used by communities, e.g., the old Kumasi dump is now a community sports ground
     (Beneficiary Study).


(4) Vehicular Access
The project helped facilitate access to and from small neighborhoods.

Outputs:
  Small roads, side drains, localized water supply and street lighting were built/rehabilitated in 14 low income
    communities to benefit 100,000 people. (Original target was 80,800 people in 13 communities). The small roads
    were paved and side drains dredged.
  These small localized works were targeted at low lying but high density areas where the poor live and worked, to
    alleviate and divert the flow of refuse, feces, sullage water from other neighborhoods.

Outcomes:
  Previously unpassable roads became all weather roads, side drains redirected sullage/reduced flooding.
  Vehicular access was facilitated to and from entire neighborhoods. (Previously vehicles were trapped in these
    roads preventing key services such as septic sludge removal from latrines.)
  The communities expressed general satisfaction with the community infrastructure upgrading and health
    promotion activities.
  Perceived benefits were: improved community and neighborhood security from street lights and access roads;
    improved hygiene conditions and public health, and fewer breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
  Some respondents have cited increased socioeconomic activity and improved property values.



(5) Environmental health
The ICR only briefly touched on this topic. The project did not attempt to measure environmental health outcomes in
terms of morbidity.

Outputs:
  The project’s institutional strengthening component provided training in public health/environmental health
    (including data collection methods) to staff of the environmental health units (EHU) within the MLGRD and the
    MMAs.
  Field equipment, insecticides, and health promotional material were provided for use by the EHUs.
  The MMAs in the project collaborated with the Ghanaian Health Department. Project interventions in drainage,
    solid waste management and school sanitation were coordinated with the department of health, which was
    responsible for malaria control activities, e.g., spraying, bed net use under the auspices of the Roll Back Malaria
    program (end-of-project studies).

Outcomes:
  The project’s large-scale investments in solid waste management, drainage and sanitation, and efforts to
    collaborate with the Health Department, are likely to have a direct positive contribution to environmental health
    outcomes vis-a-vis reduced diarrheal diseases, and vector-borne diseases. However the extent is not known
    because they were not tracked by the project M&E framework,
  Project activities provided containment and sanitary removal of feces, reduced the food sources for flies and
    scavenger animals, and minimized mosquito breeding grounds.
  EHU staff were satisfied with the training received (health inspections, environmental and safety assessments,
    health education promotion, data collection, etc.) and with the field equipment and insecticides provided. These
    helped improve their capacity to provide services.

The PDO also referred to the need for sustainability of project interventions and appropriate focus on the poor.

Sustainability:
    The sustainability of the majority of project interventions is highly dependent of the financial capacity of the MMAs
     and the Ministry of Local Development and Rural Development. In 2003, the Government's Decentralization
     Policy took effect and responsibility for environmental sanitation was devolved to MLGRD, which previously had
     been dependent on central government fiscal transfers. At project close the MLGRD did not yet have the funds or
     revenue generating capability to support the MMAs in the operation and maintenance (O&M) of project civil
     works.
    Staff of the Municipal Authorities have received training in financial management, legal and regulatory aspects of
     urban development, technical knowledge of the operations of drainage, solid and liquid waste management
     systems. Computerization has helped strengthen the ability to improve accounting, billing and collection. These
     improvements in financial and technical management have helped MMAs service delivery performance but are
     not able to achieve cost recovery levels (ICR page 42)
    The private sector has been contracted to operate the solid waste collection services, but some MMAs could not
     pay the operators on time. In these cases, the quality and reliability of services have been affected. With respect
     to the drainage facilities the beneficiary studies have found that the O&M was satisfactory if the drain
     management units (DMU) of the MMAs were well resourced. Hence O&M varied between the 5 cities.
    The sustainability and continued O&M of the private facilities (8500 household latrines) and services (private
     household trash collection) are high because owners had already purchased the toilets or committed to the user
     fees. The sustainability of the 36 communal latrines is likely. The majority were in high density commercial areas
     such as markets. These were mostly operated and maintained by private contractors who charge user fees. The
     sustained O&M of the school latrines will be dependent on the combined efforts of the schools and parents.
    The end-of-project beneficiary assessments suggest that over time and with stronger community engagement,
     the low-income communities will take on a growing share of user fees as their socioeconomic activities increase.

Focus on the Poor:
The project team reported that project interventions were carried out as planned in accordance with the Strategic
Sanitation Plans (SSP) developed by the MMAs. These SSPs had prioritized lists of households, communities, and
schools drawn from the cities’ low-income residents. The SSPs also laid out the financing arrangements and
subsidies for these communities and how they would be managed.


5. Efficiency:

Modest

Economic Efficiency:
The PAD (Annex 9) maintained that UESP II was based on UESP I, hence the major investments in UESP II had
already been identified and designed in detail before project effectiveness. Based on an analysis done in 1991 it was
estimated that for those types of drains the benefit cost ratio was between 2.9 and 5.2; and an ERR range of 32% to
47%. The PAD considered that a cost benefit analysis for UESP II was less appropriate because the market price of
project outputs could not be readily assessed and the benefits could not be measured in monetary terms. Thus a
cost-effectiveness analysis was a better option. The PAD selected storm drains and residential latrines for the
cost-effectiveness analysis.

At the time of the ICR 2012 the actual costs for constructing the drains and the latrines were converted to 2004
prices, and then compared them against the estimate prices at the time of the appraisal. There had been a great deal
of volatility and exchange rate fluctuation since appraisal. This made 2012 prices 2.6 times higher than at 2004. Two
types of drains were constructed: one with trapezoidal profile and the other with rectangular profile. While the
trapezoidal design was the least costly on a recurrent basis, it took more land to construct - - thus the decision to go
with both types of design. The ICR estimated, that 16.8 km of storm drains at $20.8 million was still cost effective. In
2004 prices it was equivalent to only $14.5 million compared to the $16.5 million estimated at appraisal. At $863,000
per km, the savings were 13% compared to the $1,000,000 per km estimated at appraisal.

At completion the total costs of the latrine component was 5% higher than estimated at appraisal after actual prices
were converted into 2004 prices. The high price of household latrines (which cost 55% more than appraised) was
offset by the lowered costs of the public and school latrines (42% and 26% less than appraised). The higher costs of
latrines than estimated at appraisal were within acceptable limits.

Administrative and Implementation Efficiency:
The ICR indicated that because the project costs for drainage and toilets had met the targets set at appraisal or was
within an acceptable cost range, the project's efficiency was satisfactory. However, the project was extended by 2.5
years due to delays and the cost effectiveness analysis does not adequately present project gains. The
implementation delays were the result of land acquisition and resettlement issues, weaknesses in implementation
capacity, seasonal constraints, price escalations, delays in releasing counterpart funds, and the slow start-up of the
institutional strengthening component.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of project objectives is high but the relevance of design is modest due to shortcomings in the causal
chain outlined by the project and issues with regards to assessing the sustainability of the responsible authorities. The
project's efficacy is substantial. Overall efficiency is modest due to the limited insight provided with regards to the
cost-effectiveness analysis and issues around project delivery.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Due to the inability to move ahead with Kwabenya landfill Accra's waste is being routed to Tema. The load of 100,000
tons/year may compromise Tema's landfill capacity. Additionally, the sustainability and continued operation and
maintenance (O&M) of project facilities and services are not assured, except for the private household latrines, and
private household trash collection, and the communal latrines in market places run by private operators charging
small user fees. The majority of the other public civil works and services (communal or shared public goods, i.e.,
drains, landfills, roads ) will depend on (i) the financial resources or revenue-generating capability of the MMAs for
their upkeep; and (ii) behavior change of the population who have been accustomed to indiscriminate dumping. Given
the weak state of MLGRD and MMA finances, and their inability to recover costs, there are significant risks to
development outcome.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The Bank's appraisal process had taken into account the pertinent technical, financial, and economic aspects of
planned activities for UESP II. Specifically UESP II was to improve the sustainability of investments. This was
done partly by strengthening the Waste Management Departments (WMDs) capacity to operate and maintain the
drains, and by building the project and financial management capability of the MMAs. However the project did not
adequately address the lack of financial resources within MMA and MLRD to sustain project O&M. Both these
entities would continue to depend on fiscal transfers from the Central government even though the
Decentralization Policy was already in place.

The Bank’s Inspection Panel was called in August 2007, in response to a request for inspection, on safeguards
issues. The Panel’s first report ( March 2009) determined the Bank was not compliant on Bank policies on
Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement, and Project Supervision. These pertained to the analysis of
alternative sites and impacts in the area of influence of the Project; and to the planning for environmental
management and resettlement. The Panel felt that the instances of non-compliance, if not addressed, could
adversely impact the affected communities in contravention with Bank Policy.

The project had been a legacy project, i.e., where the initial operation was not financed by the Bank. Kwabenya
was previously supported by UK Dfid, and an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) had been conducted in 2001
and an access road was built to the site. The Bank had relied on the old EIA study during appraisal (technically
this was allowed because the EIA was not yet 3 years old). Protests began to mount from a growing number of
affected peoples including many who had had only moved to the site after the road was constructed despite the
fact that there were signs stating the area was marked for a landfill. An updated Impact Evaluation Assessment
would have shown increased population encroachment to the area; however, only the less comprehensive
Environment and Social Assessment (ESA) was conducted. Hence this was ruled as inadequate by the Inspection
Panel.

The Panel acknowledged, however, that a difficult environment prevailed. The views and positions of stakeholders
had hardened, leading to an impasse. This affected the execution of project activities (e.g., consultations, field
visits, and resettlement planning) that were essential to complying with Bank Policies. Hence it was very difficult
for the project to implement effectively.

(Note: the now-defunct Quality Assurance Group conducted a Quality at Entry assessment for this project in 2005
and rated it as Unsatisfactory overall.)


     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Prior to the Inspection Panel the Bank had not been strongly proactive in its efforts to comply with the Safeguards
triggered (see section 11 below), and problems with Kwabenya were not fully identified and reported to Senior
Management, or when known, were not adequately shared with staff with Safeguards responsibilities.
Notwithstanding, many outreach attempts by the Bank and MLGRD to consult with the Agyemankata group were
met with the group's fierce position, which precluded the project's ability to consult with their members. There was
a lack of trust from both sides, and positions had hardened. However, consultation with other PAP were more
amicable and productive.

     After the Inspection Panel ruling (March 2009) the Bank responded appropriately and enough supervision
      time and resources were spent on the Kwabenya issue. The TTL was moved to the field and there were a
      total of 16 supervision visits. The ICR and project team noted that the Bank was transparent in its
      aides-memoire and supervision reports. There was candid reporting on project issues.
     An updated and full scale EIA and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was undertaken. Borrower comments in
      the ICR suggested that the Bank's processes had been overly influenced by the Agyemankata coalition, a
      small group living nearby and not directly affected by the landfill. However before the RAP could be
      completed the Mayor of Accra decided to drop Kwabenya in this project. Even though the site was dropped
      the Bank continued monitoring of Government compensation to the project-affected people.
     There were coordination issues between two different Bank projects siting investments in the same location.
      The planned septage treatment facility for Accra had to be abandoned on the instructions of the city’s Mayor,
      due to its proximity to a new bus terminal financed by another Bank project. Likewise a power transmission
      line (from a Bank Energy Project) was being erected and crosses the Kwabenya Landfill Site, which would
      have compromised the latter had it not been dropped.
     The Bank satisfactorily managed the Financial Management and Procurement aspects of the project.
     During supervision the Bank could have done more to improve the M&E system to better track project
      outcomes.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Borrower was committed to the project and was able to see through a number of project achievements.
However, on several occasions it did not provide its counterpart funds in a timely manner. At project design a
Steering Committee comprising representatives from relevant government agencies involved in urban service
provision, including the Project Assemblies, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, MLGRD, Ministry of
Works and Housing, Ministry of Health, Urban Roads Department, and the Environmental Protection Agency,
were to jointly oversee the project during implementation. The Committee did not meet with the Bank as planned
to review annual progress and address issues. Project oversight became the sole responsiblity of MLGRD as a
result.


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The PCU of the MLGRD, which had previously implemented UESP I, satisfactorily completed its responsibilities
as the overall coordinating body for the project. It provided adequate support to the 5 MMAs who were the actual
implementing agencies. Given this was a first for the MMAs, their performance in this large multisectoral and
multidimensional project is assessed to be satisfactory. Over time, with backstopping from the PCU/ MLGRD and
the Bank, the MMAs improved their fiduciary, and safeguards responsibilities, with moderate shortcomings. The
MMAs were unable to recover or generate enough revenue to effectively manage project achievements in a
sustainable manner.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

As described in the ICR, the design of the project’s Results Framework and corresponding M&E system was
unsatisfactory. The M&E had poor indicators. The project mainly tracked outputs (length of access roads to
communities that were surfaced; number of latrines built). When tracking outcomes such as improved flooding, it
chose to measure "reduction of complaints by residents" instead of an objective and reliable form of measurement
(such as actual level of floods). The project did not collect baselines at the start of the project. Project M&E also did
not disaggregate results by geographic area to allow for an assessment of the achievement of objectives for each city.

b. M&E Implementation:

The ICR reported that to the extent possible the PCU and MMAs used project input and output data generated by the
M&E system to address project issues. Even in these circumstances, outcomes were not reliably monitored due to the
choice of outcome indicators and the M&E system was not revised or improved during project restructuring or
implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

Given the project's inherent M&E weaknesses, the project depended on the Beneficiary Assessments conducted at
the end of the project as the principal means to assess outcomes. The Beneficiary Assessments were conducted in
April-May 2013. The ICR (Annex 5) noted three different assessments were done, focused on drainage and
community upgrading; sanitation and solid waste, and institutional strengthening. The assessments used focus group
discussions and key stakeholder interviews, supplemented with participant observation and institutional assessment.
The respondents selected were representative of the different stakeholders of project interventions. Except for the
household respondents who numbered 240, the respondent size of the other BAs were not provided The ICR noted
that had this Assessment been included as a deliverable with resources allocated in the procurement plan, the quality
could have been better, notwithstanding the absence of reliable baselines.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was a Category A project and triggered two Bank Safeguards Policies: (a) OP 4.01 on Environmental and
Social Assessment (ESA); and (b) OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The project prepared a Resettlement Action
Framework, an Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, and the ESA which were disclosed prior to appraisal in 2004. Prior
to the Bank's involvement Kwabenya had been identified as a landfill with support from Dfid as early as 1997. An
access road to the site was constructed in late 2001 but activities were stalled. Additionally Dfid had a new corporate
decision to shift support from sector investments to budgetary support. When the Bank took up Kwabenya in 2003 it
did not conduct a new EIA, relying instead on Dfid's EIA conducted in 2001. Meanwhile new residents had
encroached/ moved to the site, facilitated by the access road built by Dfid for the landfill. Only an ESA was conducted
in 2003, which the Inspection Panel later determined to be deficient.

A call for inspection was made by the Agyemankata coalition in August 2007. The group claimed the EIA had not fully
consulted them, and that the Bank did not fully comply with its policy on Involuntary Resettlement (.i.e., meaningful
consultation with affected and displaced people had not been observed).

The Panel produced 3 reports. It determined the Bank did not comply with several provisions of Bank policies on
Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement, and Project Supervision. These include provisions related to
analysis of alternative sites for a landfill, analysis of impacts in the area of influence of the Project, environmental
management planning, and resettlement planning. These instances of non-compliance, if not addressed, could
adversely impact the affected communities in contravention with Bank Policy, the Panel noted.

The Inspection Panel also noted that the Bank and government counterparts attempted to consult with a broad
spectrum of potentially affected people, but failed to reach the Agyemankata group. The latter would not attend public
hearings, and according to MLRD had detained their officials who were serving official notification to them. The letters
were returned unopened.

In these instances of noncompliance by the Bank, the Panel acknowledged that the environment around the
subcomponent may be affecting actions (e.g., consultations, field visits, and resettlement planning) that are essential
to compliance with Bank Policies. A recurring theme in this investigation is the difficulties encountered in designing
and implementing a project when positions amongst project stakeholders have hardened, trust has been lost, and
there is an impasse.

The Inspection Panel of March 2009 ruled for better consultation efforts by the Bank. An updated EIA and additional
studies were thus conducted for the Resettlement Action Plan. Prior to their completion however the Bank was notified
by the Mayor of Accra in October 2010 to drop Kwabenya and funds were reallocated to other activities.

Although the landfill was not developed, the project was obligated to continue with the compensation of affected
peoples. The Bank and Government agreed on the use of the credit for compensation. The project was extended to
December 31 2012. However, the compensation process is still incomplete. Some of the PAP have refused
compensation, hoping to hold onto the land; while others have alleged the compensation did not reflect inflation and
current market values.

None of the other project activities had safeguards issues.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management
At appraisal an FM Assessment was conducted for the MLGRD and the five participating MAs as part of project
preparation. Responsibility for FM lay with the MLGRD’s Head of Accounts and the Municipal Finance
officers of the MMAs, whose capacities were assessed to be generally adequate to perform required tasks.

Financial Management was generally satisfactory through the project implementation period, with moderate
shortcomings. Quarterly financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner, and annual audit reports of
the project accounts by independent external auditors raised no significant issues. Shortcomings primarily involved,
lack of regular updating of the Commitment Schedule, and delays in recovering advances made to the MMAs.

Procurement

A Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted at preparation. The MMAs were responsible for procurement of
activities in their respective sub-components. Given their general lack of experience particularly with Bank procedures
there were moderate shortcomings in the MMA performance. It was a challenge for the MMAs to select high quality
contractors and suppliers, including for the Beneficiary Assessments, and to procure quality equipment.. There were
procurement delays, and some quality issues in some of the equipment purchased.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons were derived from the ICR with some modification of language:

1) Due diligence in respect to Safeguards should involve close monitoring of changing conditions on the ground,
especially where there has been a considerable time lag between initial collection of baseline data (EIA 2001) and
final preparation of Safeguards documents. Safeguards analyses during project identification and preparation
should also take legacy issues from prior operations by other financiers (Dfid).

2) The Bank and Borrowers should ensure careful cross-sectoral coordination, internally and externally, as early as
possible during project design to avoid potentially conflicting designs and/or siting of investments. Two cases under
the project illustrated the importance of this issue. First, the proposed location of the septage treatment facility for
Accra that was to be financed through the project had to be abandoned on the instructions of the city’s Mayor, due
to its proximity to a new bus terminal also financed by the Bank. Second, the Bank financed an Energy project,
involving a power transmission line whose route crossed the proposed Kwabenya landfill site. This issue could have
raised concerns had the landfill been constructed.

3) There are trade-offs between strengthening the institutional capacity of implementing agencies through ‘learning
by doing approaches’ while at the same time holding them accountable for implementing critical project activities,
and associated risks to implementation progress and quality should be duly recognized and adequately mitigated.

4) The construction of infrastructure (hardware) can be implemented with relative speed, compared with realization
of benefits that require difficult changes in behavior, i.e., often ingrained practices including hygiene and sanitation
habits, and institutional culture. Project implementation schedules should ensure that sufficient time is given to
these "‘software’ aspects in order to reap the full benefits.

5) For infrastructure investments and services targeting the poor, it is not uncommon to continue to require in the
short- to medium-term some form of cross-subsidy among beneficiary groups and/or continued support from central
or local governments from revenues other than direct user fees to ensure service delivery on a sustainable basis.

6) Adequate resources should be allocated for critical M&E activities such as Beneficiary Assessments, and these
activities should be included as deliverables in Procurement Plans to allow for completion of data collection and
analysis of project outcomes before the closing date. M&E support should also be provided to teams early during
preparation and implementation to ensure strong results frameworks.


14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR did a balanced job of reporting on project experience and was candid in its overall assessment. . It covered
the Safeguards issues adequately. The Beneficiary Assessments (BA) were the principal tools to assess project
outcomes. Much more information should have been provided about the BAs, including methods, and numbers of the
stakeholders consulted. The project team has since provided additional information to IEG about the quality of the
end-of-project studies including the BAs.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
