                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2491




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-57333 TF-57505)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.10 MILLION

                   FROM THE TRUST FUND FOR LEBANON

                                       TO THE

                             LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

                FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                                 October 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2012)

                          Currency Unit = LP
                          LP 1,505.50 = US$1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAS      Beneficiary Assessment Survey
BD       Bidding Document
DGLA     Directorate General of Local Administration
EC       European Commission
FM       Financial Management
FMIP     First Municipal Infrastructure Project
GoL      Government of Lebanon
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT      Information Communication and Technology
IMF      Independent Municipal Fund
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IFR      Interim un-audited Financial Report
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
LED      Local Economic Development
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MOIM     Ministry of Interior and Municipalities
MOMRA    Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MTR      Mid-term Review
NERP     National Emergency Reconstruction Program
PDO      Project Development Objective
TFL      Trust Fund for Lebanon
UN       United Nations
UNIFIL   United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon



                    Vice President: Inger Andersen
                  Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
                   Sector Manager: Franck Bousquet
              Project Team Leader: Chantal Reliquet
                 ICR Team Leader: Chantal Reliquet
                                        LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                 First Municipal Infrastructure Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
A. Basic Information
                                                                                LB - Municipal
Country:                 Lebanon                      Project Name:
                                                                                Infrastructure
Project ID:              P103875                      L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57333,TF-57505
ICR Date:                10/30/2012                   ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                          Borrower:
                                                                                LEBANON
Original Total
                         USD 30.10M                   Disbursed Amount:         USD 29.60M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 30.09M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Interior and Municipalities
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
     Process               Date                 Process              Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:         09/07/2006         Effectiveness:                               11/29/2006
                                                                                        12/16/2009
                                                                                        03/14/2011
Appraisal:              10/13/2006         Restructuring(s):
                                                                                        05/14/2011
                                                                                        12/27/2011
Approval:               11/03/2006         Mid-term Review:
                                           Closing:                   12/31/2009        04/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                   -i-
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                      3                    3
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 30                   30
Other social services                                                  5                    5
Sub-national government administration                                30                   30
Urban Transport                                                       32                   32


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                         20                   20
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  40                   40
Municipal governance and institution building                         20                   20
Urban Economic Development                                            20                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph Sabas
Sector Manager:            Franck Bousquet                      Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Chantal Reliquet                     Robert Maurer
ICR Team Leader:           Chantal Reliquet
ICR Primary Author:        Kofi Amponsah




                                                -ii-
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the additional financing grant are to (i) restore basic services and
rebuild priority public infrastructure in the affected municipalities and villages, (ii)
support local economic recovery and development in the municipalities that have
suffered the heaviest damage, and (iii) provide technical assistance to and build the
capacity of municipalities to mitigate the impact of the hostilities on municipal finances
(within the broader context of developing the municipal sector).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                PDO: (i) Physical works: repairing & upgrading of selected basic municipal
Indicator 1 : infrastructure & services : number of municipal buildings reconstructed, km of
                restored roads, retaining walls repaired.
                                           Municipal                           Municipal buildings
                                           buildings = 18                      = 17
                Municipal buildings = 0 Roads = 183 km                         Roads = 175 km
Value           Roads = 0                  Retaining walls =                   Retaining walls =
quantitative or Retaining walls = 0        50 km                               48.7 km
Qualitative)    Street lighting poles = 0 Street lighting                      Street lighting poles
                Storm water drains = 0 poles = 4684                            = 4684
                                           Storm water drains                  Storm water drains
                                           = 13 km                             = 10.7 km
Date achieved 11/29/2006                   11/29/2009                          04/30/2012
Comments
                Municipal buildings: 94%; Roads: 96%; Retaining Walls: 97%; Street lighting
(incl. %
                poles: 100%; Storm water drains: 82%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : PDO (i): Ratio of built up area over total area in the project areas.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Fully achieved. Indicator added at MTR and measures equity in the repartition of
(incl. %
                funding for reconstruction. Details presented in ICR main text.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : PDO (ii): Number of LED projects launched in the conflict areas.
Value
quantitative or 0                          10                                  11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2006                   11/29/2006                          04/30/2012

                                                -iii-
Comments
(incl. %          11 projects were launched in 11 Cazas, exceeding 10 projects targeted.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     PDO (ii): % of municipalities' budget allocated to investments.
Value
quantitative or   25%                       35%                                35%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/29/2006                11/29/2006                         04/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     PDO (iii) number of case studies completed.
Value
quantitative or   0                         3                                  3
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/29/2006                 11/29/2006                        04/30/2012
Comments          Fully achieved. The studies were designed to reduce dependency on Central
(incl. %          Gov't subsidy (from the Independent Municipal Fund). The results of the Study
achievement)      are supported by the declining ratio of municipal revenues/Gov't transfers.
Indicator 6 :     PDO (i) and (ii) Number of direct project beneficiaries.
Value
                                            Not an original
quantitative or   0                                             375,427        375,427
                                            target.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/29/2006                 11/29/2006          04/30/2012    04/30/2012
Comments          This core indicator was added for the ICR to bring out the number of direct
(incl. %          beneficiaries from the project. The beneficiary breakdown is 276,774 for
achievement)      Component 1 and 98,653 for Component 2.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
                  Ratio of Municipal revenues to Government transfers in the municipalities
Indicator 1 :     affected by the conflict (a decreasing ratio will show improved financial
                  sustainability).
Value
(quantitative     70%                       40%                                49.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/29/2006                11/29/2006                         04/30/2012
Comments
                  49.5% of central government transfers are allocated to municipalities. This shows
(incl. %
                  improvement in the collection of own resources by the municipalities.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Setting up and operating a municipal observatory.
Value
(quantitative     0                         1                                  1
or Qualitative)

                                                -iv-
Date achieved   11/29/2006                  11/29/2006                        04/30/2012
Comments        A municipal observatory has been established, and operating at the Directorate
(incl. %        General level and is officially embedded in the Ministry of Interior &
achievement)    Municipalities since the Decree of Oct 15, 2011.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1    12/22/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  2    06/28/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        2.00
  3    12/18/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        2.09
  4    06/27/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        2.80
  5    12/30/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        8.58
  6    06/26/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      10.73
  7    12/21/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      13.93
  8    02/11/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      14.98
  9    09/23/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      19.07
 10    07/05/2011      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               23.76
 11    01/11/2012      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               28.97
 12    05/13/2012      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               29.60


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                     Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                           Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/16/2009       N        S      S          13.93               Extension of closing date.
 03/14/2011       N        S      S          21.94               Reallocation of loan proceeds.
 05/14/2011                S      S          23.12               Extension of closing date.
 12/27/2011               MS    MS           28.21               Extension of closing date.




                                              -v-
I. Disbursement Profile




                           .




                          -vi-
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Years of civil unrest and internal conflict from 1975 to 1990 ravaged Lebanon’s infrastructure
and affected provision of basic services. In particular, the municipal sector faced a plethora of challenges,
including lack of adequate infrastructure, resulting in limited access to basic services such as water and
sewerage. Roads, drainage and water networks were in a state of disrepair due to prolonged lack of
expenditure on maintenance.

2.       Soon after the civil war, the Government of Lebanon (GoL) prioritized rebuilding the country’s
economy through a major National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP), which focused primarily
on regional infrastructure. The municipalities did not benefit from that program, but to address the issues,
in 1993, GoL established the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MoMRA), which achieved some
gains through funding from the Independent Municipal Fund (IMF). Transfers to municipalities remained
unpredictable however, and the municipalities’ institutional and financial resource base remained weak.
This prompted GoL to seek the assistance of the World Bank in the implementation of its municipal
infrastructure programs.

3.       In the year 2000, the Bank responded to GoL’s request with a Loan amounting to US$80 million
for the First Municipal Infrastructure Project (FMIP), aiming to: (a) restore selected basic municipal
infrastructure to improve living conditions; and (b) enable municipalities to address local infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation needs. The first years of project implementation were highly satisfactory,
but project implementation came to a halt in February 2005 in the aftermath of Prime Minister Rafik
Hariri’s assassination. The project also suffered from further delays caused by the Israeli-Lebanon
conflict of July-August 2006, which displaced about 1 million people and devastated basic infrastructure
in the affected areas. Over 50 percent of the housing sector in the southern suburbs of Beirut and in
southern Lebanon was destroyed. Overall, about 30,000 housing units, 140 bridges, 201 km of roads, 28
public schools, 80 private schools, and 30 vital infrastructure facilities, including airports, ports, sewage
treatment plants, water reservoirs, and power plants were destroyed. The total damage to municipal
infrastructure was estimated at US$80 million.

4.       Despite these difficulties, as of September 30, 2006, FMIP had disbursed US$63 million (about
80% of the Loan amount) and had succeeded in upgrading essential infrastructure in more than 700
municipalities. The capacity building component of the project experienced delays however, as both
central and local government officials were distracted from focusing on long-term sector reforms. As a
result of the magnitude of the damage caused by the hostilities, the Bank responded quickly to GoL’s
renewed request to help rebuild the country’s infrastructure and approved the establishment of the Trust
Fund for Lebanon (TFL) on September 7, 2006, with a transfer of US$70 million from the IBRD’s
surplus, to help alleviate the impact of the conflict on the municipalities. An additional Grant of US$30
million was approved in November 2006 for the FMIP. This Grant was processed in the form of an
Additional Financing to the FMIP1 . However, in terms of implementation, the additional Grant was
linked but treated as a separate project from the original project due to system issues related to the
difference in financing sources. This ICR covers only the additional Grant (P103875), as a separate ICR



1
  Hereafter the Additional Grant is referred to as “the Project? or “the FMIP Grant?. The original project is referred
to as “the FMIP loan?.


                                                         -1-
was completed for the original project (P050544) in June 2009. The outcome of the project was rated
satisfactory (S) both in the ICR and by Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) based on the full
achievement of the highly relevant objectives of restoring municipal infrastructure and enabling the
municipalities to better address local infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation needs. IEG also rated
all other aspects of the project implementation, including Bank and Borrower performance, either Highly
Satisfactory (HS) or Satisfactory.

5.       The Additional Grant assistance was in line with GoL’s medium term reform program,
presented to donors at the Paris III Conference shortly after appraisal, on January 25, 2007. The outcome
of the conference was positive and a number of municipalities previously identified for funding under the
FMIP Grant attracted separate bilateral support from other donors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
6.       The development objectives of the project were to: (i) restore basic services and rebuild priority
public infrastructure in the municipalities and villages affected by the hostilities (of 2006); (ii) support
local economic recovery and development in the municipalities that had suffered the heaviest damage;
and (iii) provide technical assistance to and build the capacity of municipalities to mitigate the impact of
the hostilities on municipal finances within the broader context of developing the municipal sector. To
achieve these objectives the following indicators were agreed2:

                  Number of municipal buildings reconstructed;
                  Number of kilometers of roads repaired;
                  Number of retaining walls rehabilitated;
                  Number of street lighting poles erected;
                  Number of storm water drains repaired;
                  Ratio of built up area over total area in the project area;
                  Number of Local Economic Development (LED) projects launched in the conflict areas;
                  % of municipalities’ budget allocated to investments;
                  Number of studies completed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
7.        The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
8.      The project targeted the residents of 185 municipalities, which for the most part, had not
benefitted from local investment in essential infrastructure and services during the conflict, and were not
receiving support from other donors. The target population was to benefit directly and indirectly from: (i)
upgrading of existing municipal assets, improved drainage, and access roads to primary services; (ii)
provision of street lighting, expected to improve road safety and reduce the risk of accidents; and (iii)
upgrading and repair of existing water and sewer networks to improve service reliability. The project also
targeted national – Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MOIM) and local institutions (municipalities)
by strengthening their capacity in project management and improving their information management
system through the establishment of a municipal observatory.


2
 The indicators were not stated in the Project Paper and the Grant Agreement but were developed at a later stage and recorded in
the ISR.

                                                              -2-
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (US$18.0 million).
9.       The objective of this component was to finance the reconstruction of priority public infrastructure
destroyed or damaged during the hostilities in about 185 municipalities. To this end, the project was to
finance various sub-projects, including construction and renovation of urban roads, sidewalks, retaining
walls, street lighting, water and sewerage networks, municipal buildings and information communication
and technology (ICT) equipment. The selection of sub-projects was to comply with emergency
reconstruction criteria as well as the environmental and social safeguards adopted under the FMIP Loan,
with an added emphasis on simplicity and a rapid implementation.

Component 2: Municipal Recovery and Development (US$9.0 million).
10.     The objective of this component was to provide assistance to build new municipal infrastructure
in order to revive the local economy through financing market places, access to public facilities, site and
services schemes, and upgrading service delivery systems and related equipment in about 10 to 15
municipalities that: (i) had received reconstruction assistance from other donors; and (ii) showed the
highest potential to become growth centers for the regional economy.

Component 3: Project Management and Capacity Building (US$3.0 million).
11.      The objective of this component was to: (i) support project management and technical assistance
for project implementation; and (ii) support capacity building for increasing local revenues and improving
transparency in the management of intergovernmental transfers and financial flows from the central
government to the municipalities. The component included: (a) the establishment of a Municipal
Observatory intended to provide a suitable knowledge base for sustainable and transparent municipal
management; and (b) studies on: the IMF’s performance; the reform of the property tax with the objective
of increasing the tax base and improving overall productivity; and, the municipalities’ overall financial
capacity.

1.6 Revised Components
12.     N/A.

1.7 Other significant changes
13.      The project was restructured five times mainly due to delays associated with the volatile situation
in Lebanon, coupled with changes in municipal governments in 2010. The restructurings consisted of: (i)
extending the eligibility of the Grant to municipalities of northern Lebanon in the aftermath of the 2007
Nahr El Bared hostilities; and (ii) extending the Grant Closing Date and reallocating the Grant proceeds,
as detailed below:

14.     In May 2007, violence erupted in the Palestinian refugee camp of Nahr El Bared, in the vicinity
of Tripoli. The four-month long conflict had devastating effects on infrastructure and on the local
economy in the camp and in surrounding municipalities. Subsequently, on October 24, 2007, GoL
requested the Bank to expand FMIP Grant activities to cover six municipalities located in the vicinity of
the camp. The request was granted on January 28, 2008 in the absence of objection from the Board.

15.    On December 16, 2009, the project’s closing date was extended from December 31, 2009, to June
30, 2011, in order to: (i) process the pending municipal recovery and develop subprojects under



                                                    -3-
Component 2; (ii) finalize the setting up of the Municipal Observatory within the Directorate General of
the Local Administration (DGLA); and (iii) carry out the Municipal Finance Study (under Component 3).

16.     On March 14, 2010, a reallocation of the Grant proceeds was processed from the Unallocated
Category to the Works Category in order to fully cover the cost of the works incurred under Components
1 and 2 of the project.

17.    A fourth restructuring took place on May 14, 2011 to allow for the extension of Components 1
and 3 to complete remaining project activities (Component 1 sub-projects: municipal observatory and
municipal finance study), which had been affected by the municipal elections held in May 2010.

18.      Finally, GoL requested the Bank to extend the project’s closing date for an additional four months
from December 30, 2011 to April 30, 2012, and to reallocate grant proceeds among categories. The
extension, limited to Component 2, was granted to enable the completion of sixteen local development
projects at risk of remaining uncompleted due to lack of investment funds at the municipal level, as well
as other external factors that were affecting Lebanon from June to September 2011 (see section 2.2 for
details). This last extension was instrumental in the completion of all activities by the end of the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19.     The project was prepared in less than one and a half months, under emergency procedures, to
assist Lebanon to recover from the devastating conflict of 2006. Given the FMIP Loan’s success and
quality of assistance to the municipalities, MOIM expressed interest in submitting a supplemental
financing request to the Bank in early 2006 to expand the geographical scope of the project and to cover
267 municipalities established after the approval of the FMIP Loan. The July-August 2006 hostilities,
however, necessitated a reorientation of the planned operation, focusing on replacing lost and damaged
municipal assets and restoring basic services in the most affected municipalities and villages. An
additional financing grant of US$30 million was approved in November 2006 (the FMIP Grant).
However, as noted above, even though an Additional Financing Project Paper was prepared for the FMIP
Grant, because the sources of funding were different for the Loan and the Grant, they were de facto
considered as separate projects. The FMIP Loan closed on December 31, 2008.3

20.      The Grant assistance was consistent with the Bank’s 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which foresaw additional lending for the FMIP Loan, and was later captured in the FY07-FY09 Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) for Lebanon, which replaced the CAS due to extraordinary developments in the
country. The ISN was based on three main pillars: (i) governance, economic management and growth
support; (ii) developing human capital and mitigating the poverty effects of the transition; and (iii)
resource and environmental management.
 
21.      The project design was kept simple and flexible, and was made adaptable to the volatile situation
in the country. At a quality assessment of lending portfolio meeting held in October 2008, the project was
adjudged as a well-designed project, and was rated satisfactory, despite the difficult circumstances under




3
 For further information on the FMIP Loan achievements and lessons learned, see the Implementation Completion
and Results Report (Report No ICR00001141).


                                                     -4-
which it was prepared. The panel was of the view that the team made a sound strategic choice to maintain
the implementation unit4 of the FMIP Loan, which had a wealth of experience in managing Bank projects,
and also kept the design of the rehabilitation component simple and flexible. In addition, the team adopted
the development objectives of the FMIP Loan, while adding specific sub-objectives to capture the
capacity strengthening aspect, which was new under the FMIP Grant.

22.      Project preparation was preceded by a detailed assessment of the extent of damage to municipal
infrastructure. Following the cessation of hostilities, the Bank conducted a thorough review of reports on
damages available at MOIM, which provided valuable inputs into the project design. The Bank team also
undertook field visits to municipalities in the Governorates of Mount Lebanon, Bekaa, South Lebanon
and Nabatiyeh to inspect the damage and conduct a detailed analysis of the cost estimates from a
representative sample of about 150 municipalities. The findings of the analysis showed that the
Governorate of Nabatiyeh constituted about three quarters of the total losses, with the district of Bent
Jbeil alone representing about 40% of the total municipal damage. The team also conducted analysis of
the entire sector which indicated that urban primary and secondary roads and retaining walls respectively
represented 36% and 24% of the total municipal losses.

23.      The project design was simple yet innovative because it incorporated economic development and
technical assistance components while keeping the main focus on rehabilitation and repair of
infrastructure.  These more forward looking components were intended to revive the local economy and
also build the capacity of the municipal institutions. The central government/MOIM support and the
demand-driven nature of the choice of subprojects provided impetus to the project design. The MOIM
allowed the municipalities to select their subprojects without any interference. Thus, municipalities had
the absolute liberty to choose any project they felt was much needed by their community. The MOIM’s
role was limited to supervising the bidding process and constant monitoring and supervision of project
implementation.

24.     Lessons learned from the implementation of FMIP Loan were incorporated into the design of the
project along with mitigation measures to risks appropriately identified based on the FMIP Loan
experience. These included: (i) the risk that  project implementation could slow down due to lack of focus
among central and local authorities given multiple urgent demands at the time. This risk was mitigated
through the engagement of consulting services to prepare priority subprojects; (ii)  the risk that  the
condition of underground utilities requiring extensive earth works might delay the ascertainment of
damages and cost, including the availability and variation of the cost of construction materials. This risk
was mitigated by setting aside 15 percent of the grant proceeds as an unallocated expenditure item to
cover any potential changes in costs; (iii) lack of institutional capacity at MOIM, as shown in the
implementation of the FMIP Loan. This risk was mitigated through the provision of targeted technical
assistance interventions to DGLA; (iv) the risk of overlap of projects implemented by other donors. This
was mitigated through extensive discussion with key donors to ensure projects were planned and
implemented in an expedient manner; and (v) the risks of disruption of project implementation due to the
unstable political situation in the country. This risk was mitigated through the adjustment  of  the pace and
scope of project implementation to changing conditions.

25.     The design benefited from donors and stakeholders’ collaboration. To gain more insight into the
extent of damage, the Bank team worked closely with a European Commission (EC) team which had
previously undertaken an in-depth analysis and validated the damages to the country’s infrastructure. The



4
 The unit consisted of a Project Director, Head of Finance, a Procurement officer, and M&E Officer and other relevant staff. The
unit had about 15 staff at head office and 35 engineers at project sites.

                                                              -5-
team also consulted effectively with relevant GOL agencies involved in the reconstruction process as well
as with the development partner who were supporting the municipal sector in order to integrate the
recovery activities into the GOL’s priorities and the wider response of the international community.

26.      Due to its emergency nature, the operation was prepared in record time. Disbursements also
needed to materialize quickly. The team therefore adopted the same indicators as those in the FMIP Loan
but did not fully develop the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework with baselines and expected
results before project approval. The team’s focus was to measure whether the project was delivering on
the most pressing reconstruction needs, with the view that the M&E framework would be complemented
with indicators for the institutional part of the project. Based on the fact that a full M&E framework was
actually developed and used for implementation, this is considered a minor shortcoming. Therefore, with
the abovementioned strengths in mind, quality at entry is rated satisfactory (S).

2.2 Implementation
27.      The project was approved on November 3, 2006, and declared effective on November 29, 2006.
In October 2008, a panel of quality assessment of lending portfolio rated the project as moderately likely
to achieve its development objectives despite the difficult circumstances surrounding implementation.
Project implementation started in earnest and was boosted by the following factors:

       Level of commitment of the PCU. The high level of commitment and expertise exhibited by the
        PCU was instrumental in ensuring the project strong implementation performance. The PCU
        enhanced its quality control procedures through increasing field supervision visits, particularly on
        the implementation of Component 1. It also provided regular assistance to the municipalities
        (under Component 2) by drafting a template and holding preparation sessions as needed. The
        PCU also carried out a number of capacity building interventions at the municipal level, which
        significantly improved the skills of municipal staff directly involved in project execution.
       Strong commitment of municipal authorities. The project benefited from strong commitment of
        the municipal authorities (mayors), who were very instrumental in the implementation of project
        activities. They worked closely and collaboratively with the PCU team to address implementation
        issues and ensured quality of work. In some instances, the municipalities committed themselves
        to cover the additional expenses of overall implementation should the municipal development
        projects value exceed the figure committed by the project, in the absence of a counterpart
        funding requirement in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the
        municipalities and the government.
       Adaptation to changing circumstances. The project adapted remarkably to changing
        circumstances due to: (i) simple design; (ii) implementation by an established and competent
        PCU with a long history of successful implementation under the FMIP Loan; and (iii) quick
        response to major issues by the Bank team, as evidenced in the correspondence exchanged with
        the PCU.

28.     Despite these positive factors, the project encountered considerable delays as a result of external
factors (adverse local, national, and regional environment) outside the control of the implementing
agency. These factors, among others, include:

       The decision to focus on the infrastructure component at the initial stage of the project, caused
        delay in starting the other two components; implementation of these components did not start
        until 2009;



                                                    -6-
       Delays caused by the change of municipal teams, following the municipal elections of May 2010
        impacted the overall implementation schedule. In particular, the adoption of the previously
        selected local development projects by the newly elected Municipal Councils in some
        municipalities delayed the launching of these projects;
       The sudden large scale and illegal construction of housing units (roughly estimated between
        3,000 to 4,000 buildings) on public land in Southern Lebanon (during the care-taker government)
        distorted the construction sector from January to June 2011, and led to a severe shortage of
        construction material, and the ensuing increases in prices. In addition, the restriction in the
        transport of construction material from entering Southern Lebanon from April to May 2011 in
        order to prevent an increase in illegal construction had an impact on the pace of construction
        works;
       The regional context and the security threats in Syria, which greatly affected the availability of
        adequate labor force (mostly Syrians) in the construction sector. According to the beneficiary
        assessment survey (BAS) report on component 2, Syrians constitute approximately 80% of the
        labor force in the construction sector in Lebanon; and
       The repeated security incidents, including those faced by the United Nations Interim Force in
        Lebanon (UNIFIL) witnessed in Southern Lebanon during the summer of 2011.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
29.     The monitoring and evaluation aspect of the project design was not fully developed at appraisal
due to the rapid pace of project preparation. A simplified set of indicators, which focused mainly on
physical investments, from the FMIP Loan was adapted for project monitoring, ensuring that the project
was adequately keeping track of the essential reconstruction activities. A key feature of the M&E design
was the planned BAS activities every six months, intended to closely monitor and gather information on
social impact of the project, and compensate for the limited monitoring indicators imposed by the
emergency nature of the project.

30.      M&E implementation was initially rated as satisfactory (S) and was largely carried out through
three rounds of surveys intended to assess the infrastructure component’s impact on the beneficiaries.
Because the focus was initially on physical infrastructure, M&E reporting was mainly geared towards the
performance of subproject contracts. However, as the municipal development and capacity building
activities commenced, additional indicators were deemed essential. This was discussed at the Mid-Term
Review (MTR) and the PCU developed a comprehensive framework to capture indicators for all aspects
of the project. Data was collected systematically, and standard reporting formats were developed and used
for data collection. The municipalities’ involvement was strong as they assigned their own project
managers for overseeing contract execution. The PCU on its part provided an oversight role and
monitored activities through consultants, who submitted systematic monthly reports to the PCU for input
into the M&E system. The project experienced a shortcoming, however, in that it did not keep track of the
number of direct beneficiaries. The ICR team used the full set of indicators developed following the MTR
(and presented in the ISRs) for assessing project outcomes, coupled with estimates of the total number of
beneficiaries.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance
31.     At appraisal, the project team screened a small number of sub-projects for environmental impact,
which confirmed the limited scale and significance of the potential environmental impact of the sub-
projects. The project was thus classified as category B in line with OP 4.01 (environmental assessment),


                                                   -7-
and did not trigger OP 4.12 (involuntary resettlement). The environmental guidelines of the FMIP Loan
were adopted. An important shortcoming at the initial stage was that the team did not fully comply with
Bank safeguard procedures during project preparation: (i) the Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS)
was completed but not disclosed; and (ii) the environmental guidelines were not re-disclosed prior to
appraisal of the project. An environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared and findings from its
implementation showed no significant safeguards issues. The project was rated satisfactory in terms of
safeguard compliance.

Fiduciary compliance
32.     Financial management. The project complied fully with the Bank’s financial management (FM)
procedures and requirements. It submitted interim un-audited financial reports (IFRs) to the Bank on time.
All ISRs have consistently rated FM as satisfactory, audit reports were submitted on time, with
unqualified auditor’s opinion acceptable to the Bank.

33.      Procurement. Procurement was rated satisfactory in all Bank supervision missions, including six
post procurement reviews (PPR) missions. The overall procurement oversight was satisfactory, and that
helped keep the project on track even in difficult situations. However, a key bottleneck to smooth
execution of procurement activities was a lengthy approval process for bidding documents (BD), which
caused delays averaging about 16 months between the PCU’s approval of bidding documents and the
launching of advertisement by the municipalities. This in turn affected payments approvals, which took
about 65 days to be effected5. It must be noted that this was mainly due to lack of procurement capacity at
the municipal level, cumbersome validation procedures by the Directorate General of Urban Planning
(DGUP), and external factors outside the control of the PCU. The PCU worked closely with the
municipalities to address the issues providing them with hands-on training, which allowed their staff to
process procurement transactions in a much improved fashion. The PCU also took mitigating measures to
monitor DGUP validation procedures. In addition, the Bank team worked with the PCU to constantly
revise the procurement plan and integrated a flexible and realistic duration into the plan so as to forestall
the effects of factors outside the PCU’s control.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
34.       A significant number of municipalities have established committees and boards to operate and
run their facilities built under the project. For instance, in Ansar municipality, a committee of 15 members
made up of 8 voluntary members from the municipalities and 7 community members has been formed to
manage the public market and other facilities established under the project. The seven community
members will be paid from revenue proceeds from the facilities. In Ain Zhalta, the municipality has
formed a committee staffed with paid employees to run the water facility, and collect user fees from the
use of the facilities. The authorities in Hasbaya have formed a committee to manage the public market
facility. The committee, comprised of two merchants in the market, two members of the municipality, one
person with social influence in the region, will be supervised by the mayor and the vice president of the
municipality. Other heads of municipalities, such as the mayor of Makne, are considering the possibility
of forming committees to manage their facilities for them. The interview survey of four municipalities
carried out for the ICR revealed that three of the investments are still not fully operational however,
necessitating small investments in two cases and additional operating arrangements in a third case. While
these investments are affordable by the municipalities, they should be done quickly and monitored closely
to assure full impact of the project.


5
 Two factors contributed to the delays: (i) contracts review period coincided with the civil unrest of May 2008, and subsequent
political instability which left key positions in the ministry vacant until December 2008; and (ii) the revision of estimates, which
involved approvals of amended bidding documents, due to escalation of prices of materials worldwide.

                                                                -8-
35.     With regards to Component 3, the studies implemented through the project now constitute
MOIM’s Municipal Finance Strategic Framework. Additionally, and as a direct follow-up to the project,
GoL is also developing a Local Governance and Local Development Program with EUR 20 million
financing from the EU. 

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
36.     The project objectives, design and implementation were and remain highly relevant. The PDOs
and the design are consistent with Lebanon’s current development priorities as contained in its Economic
and Social Development Program (ESP). The ESP’s main objectives are to: (i) revive the country’s
middle class through job creation and better distribution of wealth by broadening ownership of real estate
and improving access to economic infrastructure; (ii) improve the quality of life through better
safeguarding the environment, widening access to better quality and more affordable health care and
education, and providing adequate social safety nets for the most vulnerable; and (iii) promote equity and
fairness through broad-based growth, narrower regional disparities, reduced gender disparities, reliance
on the rule of law, and good governance to restore the credibility of state institutions. The project is also
consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY11-FY14. The main objective of the
CPS is to support GoL in putting the economy on a path to sustained, high and broad-based economic
growth which is critical for Lebanon to continue to improve its fiscal and debt sustainability; create
employment; provide adequate infrastructure and social services and support social inclusion. By
focusing on the restoration of basic services and on the development of the local economy in the
beneficiary municipalities, the project is fully consistent with the CPS objectives.

37.     Despite the fact that significant infrastructure has been reconstructed and rehabilitated, basic
services needs are still important in a country where about 28.6% of the population remains poor.
Disaggregation of economic and social indicators in project intervention areas also shows high levels of
poverty, particularly in Northern Lebanon (52.6%) and Southern Lebanon (42.2%).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
38.      The achievement of the PDO is rated satisfactory as all parts of the PDO were achieved with only
minor shortcomings as measured through the indicators. The project contributed to short- and medium-
term reconstruction and economic recovery and directly benefitted an estimated 375,427 people with
restored basic services and economic development opportunities. The technical assistance provided by the
project reduced municipal dependence on transfers, further strengthening the municipalities’ prospects to
be responsible for continued recovery efforts. The achievement of the PDOs is detailed below on the basis
of the three parts. The total number of beneficiaries (direct and indirect) who will potentially benefit from
investments number 2.5 million (defined as people living within the area served by a Component 2
investment, e.g. a market or a community center), a very high figure that was reached in large part due to
the number of beneficiaries being a criteria for the selection of sub-projects.

PDO 1: (i) restoring basic services and rebuild priority public infrastructure in the affected
municipalities and villages.

39.     As shown in table 1 below, the infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation was achieved, with
only minor shortcomings. The project funded 440 sub-projects benefiting 178 municipalities, almost
reaching the tentative appraisal estimate of 185 municipalities. While the physical works are outputs, they
are relevant measures of achievement of a reconstruction effort. Having municipal buildings in place is
essential for developing the ability to provide an appropriate response to citizens’ needs and to establish a

                                                    -9-
functioning and participating democracy at the local level. The project also helped restore basic
infrastructure, bringing the city environment back to pre-conflict or superior to pre-conflict conditions,
reestablishing transport and access to water, and providing street lighting for increased security in a
record time (the complete overview of sub-projects is provided in Annex 2).

 Table 1: Achievement of key performance indicators for sub-PDO (i)
Indicator                                            Baseline* Target                        Actual       %
                                                                                                          Achievement
Number of municipal buildings reconstructed                      0              18           17           94%
Number of km of roads repaired                                   0              183km        175 km       96%
Number of retained walls rehabilitated                           0              50km         48.7 km      97%
Number of street light poles erected                             0              4,684        4,684        100%
Number of storm water drains repaired                            0              13.0km       10.7 km      82%
Number of direct beneficiaries                                   0              276,774      276,774      100%
(*) Baseline is zero for the indicators that measure reconstruction efforts. No reconstruction had been carried out before the FMIP
Grant.

40.     Drawing on the BAS for Component 1, it is estimated that 276,774 people benefited directly from
the sub-projects. The BAS further shows that for the sample of 87 sub-projects in 33 municipalities and
14 cazas6 under consideration, in 59 percent of cases, investments by the FMIP Grant exactly matched the
needs felt by the respondents. This is considered satisfactory, given the many competing needs, and the
BAS further confirms that the benefits of the sub-projects were systematically applauded by the
respondents. The project impact on beneficiary welfare was not an explicit project objective, but overall,
25 percent of BAS respondents confirmed that their quality of life had improved due to the sub-projects.

41.      During the ICR mission, the project stakeholders further expressed their satisfaction with the
outcomes of this component, which was seen as instrumental in bringing the country out of a state of
crisis and back towards a more steady development path. According to direct feedback from mayors from
South Lebanon and the Bekaa Valley, the project was critical in restoring normal life to communities after
the 2006 hostilities. As indicated by the mayor of Ansar, whilst infrastructure was not expected to be
restored for quite some time, the project succeeded in completing the restoration of water supply and
transportation capabilities with exceptional efficiency in an unexpected record time.

42.      Just as for the FMIP Loan, workshops and hands-on training were used by the project to
familiarize municipalities with the technical, social, environmental and economic criteria for the
prioritization of their project needs and encouraged them to consider operations and maintenance
implications of their investment choices. All participating municipalities are now fully aware of the
processes of identification and appraisal of sub-projects, preparation of bidding documents, bid awards, as
well as construction supervision.




6
    Cazas are similar to districts.


                                                               -10-
Table 2: Equity indicator for PDO (i)
         Indicator   (1) Ratio of built up area                                  (3) Ratio of average
                                                  (2) Ratio of built up area
                     over total area in the                                      municipal areas served by
                                                  over total area in the
                     project areas - density of                                  the project < 2% - share of
                                                  project areas - intensity of
                     municipal infra. (%                                         financial assistance (%
                                                  damage (% repaired infra./
                     municipal infra./ total                                     repaired municipal infra/
                                                  municipal infra.)
Region               infra.)                                                     total infra.)
Mount Lebanon        20%                          17.4%                          1.9%
North Lebanon        23%                          12.2%                          3.8%
Bekaa                7.6%                         12.9%                          0.24%
South Lebanon        11.5%                        40.6%                          1.02%
Nabatieh             12.9%                        70%                            1.62%
Average              15.1%                        30%                            1.73%

43.      The equity indicator presents information to demonstrate that the proceeds of the project have
been allocated equally and equitably compared to the intensity of the damage and the density of municipal
infrastructure in each area. In a country where political tensions often fall along religious lines, it is
important to ensure that all groups are treated with equity across the project areas. The indicator does not
compare progress with a baseline situation, but does show that the grant assistance was in line with the
density of assets and level of damage, except for North Lebanon, where additional funds (US$3.5 million)
were provided under the FMIP Grant (reallocated from initially planned sub-projects eventually financed
by other donors) to overcome damages caused by the Nahr El Bared conflict (and subsequently, the share
of repaired municipal infrastructure compared to total infrastructure (3) surpassed the expected 2%).
While 2% is low, the indicator is meant to identify whether a particular region (or religious group) has
benefited more than the average. Indicators (1) and (2) show that even with the higher than 2% share for
North Lebanon, the repair as a percentage of municipal infrastructure (2) was lower than the density of
municipal infrastructure (1). For the other regions, the three ratios correspond better, although for South
Lebanon and Nabatieh, the ratio of repaired infrastructure to municipal infrastructure (2) was quite
substantial compared to the ratio of municipal infrastructure to total infrastructure (1), but this result was
obtained without surpassing the indicator for financial share (3). The beneficiary municipalities were
among those most affected by the hostilities and at the same time (this is not shown by the equity
indicator but by national statistics) located in areas with significantly higher poverty levels than the
national average.

PDO 2: supporting local economic recovery and development in the municipalities that have suffered the
heaviest damage.

44.     This objective was achieved as measured by the indicators (one of which was slightly surpassed)
on the number of LED projects launched in the conflict areas and the percentage of municipalities’ budget
allocated to investments, as shown in table 3 below. The project helped revive the economy of 11 cazas,
and the share of the municipalities’ budgets allocated to investment rose from a baseline figure of 25% to
35%. The investment share of the total budget is an indicator of the municipalities’ ability to deliver on
their mandate and ensure both maintenance of existing infrastructure and constructing new infrastructure.

Table 3: Achievement of key performance indicators for PDO (ii)
Indicator                                                   Baseline              Target           Actual
Number of cazas/districts targeted                          -                     10               11
Increased capital investment by the selected municipalities 25%                   35%              35%
Number of direct beneficiaries                              0                     98,653           98,653
 



                                                          -11-
 45.     A total of 98,653 people benefited directly from the LED projects. In total, 2.3 million people live
 in the municipalities that have benefited from LED projects and from other infrastructure reconstruction.
 Judged by funding allocation, PDO 2 was the second most important objective of the project and is
 considered fully achieved. Below are detailed results in some selected municipalities, with further details
 in Annex 5 (and the full list of sub-projects in Annex 2).

 46.      Municipality of Baakline. The project established an agricultural center, which served over 500
 farmers in the area. It provided retail and wholesale spaces in strategic positions for the sale of
 agricultural products in the area, and according to the BAS, helped reduce transportation costs,
 middlemen fees, and increased revenues for farmers. In addition, the center housed an agricultural
 research center that would run by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in order to assist farmers to improve
 their yields and control crop diseases. This generated employment for the local resident population, and
 women in particular.

 47.    Municipality of Ain Zhalta. The project supported the development of a water pumping station,
 which now supplies two towns in Ain Zhalta and Nabaa el Safa municipalities.

 48.     Municipality of Abbasiyeh. The project established a public market located in a strategic area
 adjacent to a new highway close to Abbassiyeh. The strategically located public market has attracted
 traders and consumers from around the area. This served as a major outlet for the area’s agricultural
 products which were hitherto marketed through the Sour and Saida public market (or “Hisba?). This has
 helped reduce transportation costs as well as middlemen fees.

 49.      Municipality of Srifa. In Srifa, the project established a heritage products market for the creation
 of an artisanal production sector in the area. The heritage market has become part of a new Saudi-
 financed cultural center complex built by the municipality. The area has, hence, become a commercial,
 cultural and recreational hub for Srifa and the region.

 50.      As indicated by the mayor of Ansar, the project was able to restore confidence in the population
 to reinvest in their towns: while providing direct economic support to the local communities, funding of
 income generation activities (such as the public marketplace in Ansar) were also instrumental in building
 confidence among the population and economic partners as they were providing a strong signal that such
 investments were expected to be economically viable. 
  
 PDO 3: Providing technical assistance to and build the capacity of municipalities to mitigate the impact
 of the hostilities on municipal finances.

 51.      PDO 3 was achieved, as measured by the use of the three studies completed. These studies now
 constitute MOIM’s Municipal Finance Strategic Framework under implementation, leading to a declining
 ratio of municipal revenues to government transfers (see Table 4 below). Consequently, this improves the
 medium-term perspective for municipal autonomy and service delivery.

 Table 4: Achievement of key performance indicators for PDO (iii)
 Indicator                                                    Baseline                        Target           Output/outcome
 Number of studies completed                                  0                               3                3
 Ratio of municipal revenues to Government transfers          70%                             40%              49.5%
The baseline figure is substantially higher than the figure reported in the original project for the same indicator in 2006 because it
is specific to the municipalities affected by the conflict.




                                                                 -12-
52.      The project assisted GoL in carrying out a municipal finance study aimed at helping GoL to
understand how to reduce dependency on central government transfers from the IMF. This was in support
of the Ministry of Finance’s (MOF) policy agenda on the need for Lebanon to strengthen the institutional
setting for service delivery and municipal management with a focus on financial, fiscal and investment
planning. To this end, three (3) studies were carried out and completed as follows:
        Strengthening the municipal finance framework with the aim of: (i) increasing the transparency
         of municipal financial operations; (ii) increasing the accountability of municipalities to the
         community and the central government; and (iii) increasing the efficiency of financial
         operations;
        Improving the independent municipal fund with the aim of: (i) making it more independent and
         self-sustaining; (ii) enhancing the revenues to ensure its financial stability; and (ii) making the
         amount paid to each municipality more equitable, predictable, reliable and timely on a yearly
         basis.
        Modernizing the municipal property tax with the aim of: (i) enhancing the financial autonomy
         of municipalities through increased own-source revenue generation; (ii) improving the
         efficiency of revenue mobilization from rental value based fees; and (iii) encouraging the most
         equitable possible approach to municipal property fees.

53.     The recommendations of the studies were implemented, resulting in a declining ratio of municipal
revenues to government transfers from a baseline figure of 70% to 49.5%, just 9.5 percentage points
higher than the project’s target of 40%. A decreasing ratio signifies improvement in the municipalities’
own revenues, and hence less dependence on central government revenues. While the objective was not
fully achieved, it is still considered a moderately satisfactory outcome, given that only a minor share of
project investments went to this component, its results being additional to the primary reconstruction
objective of the project.

3.3 Efficiency
54.     Comparison with unit costs of physical outputs in-country and in the region. The project was
prepared as an emergency operation in line with OP 8.00 guidelines; therefore, no ex-ante cost benefit
analysis (CBA) was undertaken at appraisal. In order to determine the efficiency of project
implementation, the ICR team compared the unit costs of project outputs with similar works in Lebanon
and in comparable countries in the region.

55.      Despite the difficult operating environment, unit costs of the project’s physical outputs for which
comparable data were available compare favorably with outputs of similar works in the country and in the
region. Under the project, a kilometer of road was completed at a unit cost of US$56,332/km, which is
well below the unit costs of similar works in Jordan (US$177,500/km). The unit cost of rehabilitating a
kilometer of a storm water drain was US$139,371/km compared with the costs of similar projects in
Jordan (US$225,000/km), West Bank and Gaza (242,560/km) and Yemen (162,400/km). Within
Lebanon, the costs of the project’s infrastructure were found to be the same or slightly less than other
similar projects in the country. For example, the unit cost of a repaired road was US$56,332/km for the
project, compared with US$58,000 for non-FMIP projects. Similarly, the unit cost of constructing a
kilometer of sewerage is US$36,349/km compared with US$40,000 for a non-FMIP project.

56.      Cost per beneficiary. An analysis of cost per beneficiary by type of project for Components 1 and
2 activities was conducted for a total of about 375,427 direct beneficiaries (276,774 for Component 1 and
98,653 for Component 2) and 2,164,445 indirect beneficiaries for Component 2. The results of the
analysis show that overall the project recorded acceptable costs per beneficiary reached, at US$63 and

                                                   -13-
US$94 per direct beneficiary for Components 1 and 2 respectively. These costs compared favorably with
the cost per capita (US$68) of the predecessor project (FMIP Loan), which targeted a quarter of the
population of Lebanon but only invested in Component 1-type sub-projects, whereas the FMIP Grant
included local development sub-projects for Component 2, with important local economic development
potential and promising good returns on investments justifying the slightly higher cost per beneficiary.
For both the FMIP Loan and Grant, the cost per beneficiary was kept down by making the number of
beneficiaries part of the selection criteria for investments. Overall cost was kept down by also including
economic selection criteria.

57.      Overall costs of goods and services were reasonable, and were within the prevailing market
prices. The escalation of prices of materials experienced as a result of the regional and country context
was well-contained by the project’s financing mechanism. By design, funding from the unallocated
expenditure category helped minimize the impact of the high prices on project implementation. Project
management costs were reasonable in light of Bank experience and country context. The cost of project
management was only about 4.1% of total cost of the project, and well below the generally accepted
interval of 5 to 8 percent for a project of this nature with many sub-projects. (See details in Annex 3).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
58.      Based on the project’s relevance, achievement of the PDOs, and efficiency, the overall project
outcome is rated as satisfactory7. The last three ISRs for the Project were rated moderately satisfactory
(MS), justified by the third project extension. In this respect, there is a need to differentiate between ISR
ratings (which are based rate a narrow set of factors, such as the implementation progress and the
likelihood of achieving project development objectives), and the ICR; which rates a broader set of factors,
(including Project Preparation, Design, Quality at Entry, and Implementation). At this stage, based on the
information available, and looking at the criteria for rating outcome, the project’s objectives were
achieved with only minor shortcomings. All the sub-objectives of the PDO were largely achieved and
contributed to short and medium-term reconstruction of the affected areas. The primary reconstruction
objective, in particular, was fully achieved under the FMIP Grant (given that some reconstruction works
were actually financed by other donors). The project was prepared in record time and was adequately
designed in conformity with the emergency environment, which required rapid delivery of critical basic
services in the areas affected by the hostilities. All issues related to physical works were resolved during
MTR, as well as those associated with monitoring and supervision. The project was expanded to mitigate
the impact of the Nahr El Bared conflict, providing quick and critical recovery assistance, further
contributing to the achievement of PDO. Project implementation was cost efficient as even the escalation
of prices of materials did not impact implementation. This was because of mitigation measures taken at
appraisal, which allowed for setting aside some funds in the unallocated category of expenditure.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
59.      The swift implementation of the reconstruction program was instrumental in addressing the
poverty and more general social issues but no poverty analysis was conducted and the gender issues were
reflected at the project preparation stage. The lack of specific data therefore did not allow for separate
assessment of the project’s impact on poverty, gender, and social development.


7
  A satisfactory outcome rating was also given to the FMIP Loan. The Grant provided the same types of benefits
with similar efficiency, while adding a forward-looking element of capacity building to buttress sustainability of
investments of both the Loan and the Grant.

                                                        -14-
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.     The project helped strengthen institutions at the national and municipal levels.
           At the national level. The project strengthened MOIM’s capacity to manage the
            implementation of infrastructural project activities. By working closely with the PCU, the
            project ensured improved capacity of the ministry in project management. The project also
            helped strengthen information management at the ministry through the establishment of a
            municipal observatory, which aims to provide the best possible framework for setting up a
            sustainable municipal database, and help MoF in its effort to better monitor the
            municipalities’ financial management performance.
            At the municipality and community level. The project significantly improved the capacity of
            the municipal authorities and their staff in overall project management (procurement and
            contract management, financial management, and M&E). The involvement of the municipal
            councils in the management and administration of projects through their respective project
            boards strengthened the capacity of the municipal councils as there has been significant
            improvement in overall management of public affairs at the municipal level. Also, in the
            majority of municipalities, the project ensured participatory approach to selection of
            subprojects as the local communities; including representatives of civil society and the
            general public. However, in the remainder of municipalities, projects were selected by the
            members of the municipal councils in accordance with Lebanese law, which mandates the
            municipal councils to select, plan and implement development projects on behalf of the
            people.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
61.     There were no other unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
62.      As noted in section 2.3, a key aspect of the project’s M&E mechanism was the systematic
carrying out of a BAS to assess the project’s impacts on its target population. Two separate BAS were
conducted for Components 1 and 2 and in three rounds. The final round of assessment, which forms part
of the project evaluation, found that the project’s beneficiaries were generally conversant and very
satisfied with the support they received from the project.

63.     Component 1: Employment creation. The project helped create employment in the local economy.
For example, 117 out of 131 contractors indicated that they hired local employees as part of their team
from a municipality or caza. On average, 12.2% of employees were hired from the municipalities. The
majority of the employees came from the immediate communities, with 12 workers per project per
municipality, and 3 workers per project per caza.

64.     Improvement in local economic activities. The project helped improve economic activities in
local areas as contractors purchased most of their materials from the local market. The BAS results
showed that majority of the contractors (95%) indicated that they purchased some material from within
the municipality and the caza. The survey results also showed that 37% of contractors indicated that they
purchased all their primary materials locally, from within the municipality and 22% from the caza.

65.     With regard to Component 2, the assessment sought to examine the project’s impact on the
beneficiaries in light of the implementation of LED projects. Overall, about 2,263,098 beneficiaries of


                                                   -15-
whom approximately 98,653 were direct beneficiaries and 2,164,445 were indirect beneficiaries benefited
from the project’s interventions.  

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
66.     Rating: moderate. Risk to development outcomes is moderate, given the commitment level of
GoL and in particular the municipal authorities (mayors) and the level of infrastructural development that
has taken place in project intervention areas. The discussion of the key risks to development outcomes are
as follows.

       Institutional risks to development outcome are moderate. The government’s commitment to
        maintain and operate the municipal observatory will, to some extent, sustain development
        outcomes. The observatory will help the country build a strong municipal information database.
        With assistance from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the observatory has
        been staffed, but MOIM efforts will be required to sustain it. The upcoming EU-financed
        municipal development project is also likely to provide support to the operation of the
        observatory.
       Financial risk to development outcomes is low. The project supported the municipalities to
        develop financial and sustainability indicators which would help sustain development outcomes.
        One of the key objectives of the project was to help the municipalities to be financially
        independent. As noted in section 3.2, the central government’s transfers to the municipalities have
        reduced tremendously from 70% of the IMF to 49.5%; a reduction in the ratio signifies
        improvement in the municipalities own revenues. Improvements in the municipalities own
        revenues would ensure availability of funds operations and maintenance which would help
        sustain of the rehabilitated and repaired infrastructure.
       Infrastructural risk to development outcomes is low. The rehabilitation, repair and installation of
        key infrastructure (municipal buildings, roads, streetlights, and retaining walls) have brought the
        affected areas in Lebanon back to their pre-hostility levels. With improved own revenues, these
        development outcomes should be maintained as the municipalities will be able to undertake
        regular maintenance of the facilities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.
67.      Bank performance at project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Bank, with strong support from
the staff of the Beirut office facilitated the preparation process. Given the emergency nature of the
assistance, the Bank quickly put together an experienced team, which worked closely and intensively with
the PCU to ensure smooth preparation and quality of design. Soon after cessation of hostilities, the Bank
led an assessment mission to the affected areas to ascertain the extent and magnitude of damage. During
preparation, the Bank collaborated effectively with key municipal stakeholders, who were fully involved
in project preparation and provided inputs into the project design. The shortcomings on M&E and the lack
of disclosing the ISDS were not significant, given the emergency nature of the project and
the necessity to proceed with implementation as quickly as possible.




                                                   -16-
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.
68.     Bank performance with regard to quality of supervision is rated satisfactory. Despite the volatility
of the political situation in the country, the Bank undertook significant supervision missions to ensure
effective project implementation. Overall, the Bank conducted 12 supervision missions with the final
mission occurring in March 12, 2012, shortly before the closing date of the project. During the course of
such missions, the Bank proactively resolved key implementation issues that posed a threat to the
achievement of project development objectives.

69.     The high level of supervision qualities exhibited by the Bank team also had substantial impact on
project implementation performance. This was manifested in the country portfolio quality assessment
undertaken by the country management unit in October 2010. The assessment team rated project
implementation as satisfactory, and as one of the best performing projects in Lebanon. The assessment
team commended the Task Team Leader (TTL) and his team for not only ensuring quality of design, but
also ensuring that the supervision modalities of flexibility, responsiveness and pragmatism suited the
particular circumstances of Lebanon throughout the project cycle.

70.     During implementation, the Bank maintained a strong relationship with GoL, and showed its
readiness to respond to unexpected events that occurred in Lebanon. In particular, the Bank acceded to all
the extensions requested by GoL. Under the difficult environment with which the project was
implemented, extensions were inevitable, and they ensured successful completion of project activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
71.      Taking into account the quality of project preparation and supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory. The intervention was appropriate and was in line with the Bank’s
emergency assistance strategy for Lebanon. It supported focused activities that were designed to mitigate
the effects of the hostilities in Lebanon.  

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
72.      Government performance is rated satisfactory. GoL was very committed to the success of the
project, and provided the needed support to the project preparation and implementation team. However,
the turnover of ministers coupled with other external factors affected certain decision-making on project
execution. Throughout the project cycle, seven ministers were appointed with each one of them serving
on average less than one year.

73.     At the municipal level, the municipal authorities were very committed, and were involved at all
stages of project preparation and implementation. For example, a majority of the mayors were committed
to successful implementation of project interventions, assisting and intervening directly, resolving key
implementation issues with the PCU. These were mayors who possessed an in-depth knowledge of the
municipalities.




                                                   -17-
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
74.      The implementation agency’s performance is rated satisfactory. The PCU worked closely with
the Bank team in ensuring quality of project preparation. The PCU, in collaboration with the municipal
authorities, played an effective role in guiding beneficiaries during the preparatory work and project
selection at the municipal and community levels.  

75.     The PCU performed remarkably well, because of its prior experience with Bank financial
management and procurement procedures, and the quality of its management and staff. The PCU ensured
that Bank procurement and disbursement rules and procedures were followed, and safeguards properly
observed. It facilitated all supervision missions and effectively served as a link between the Bank and the
government.

76.      During implementation, the PCU was very committed to the achievement of the PDOs. The PCU
worked diligently to respond to all queries from the Bank team as well as those from the government. It
maintained a high degree of standards for civil works through regular monitoring and supervision of
subproject activities. When it observed substandard work on some sites, it implemented pragmatic
measures and constantly organized site visits with different consultants to supervise and monitor works
progress, actions which significantly helped improve implementation and outcomes. The findings from of
the BAS (component 2) confirm that the municipalities and communities acknowledge the PCU handled
management of project implementation very well.  

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
77.    The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, considering the high level of commitment
by the government and the competency and prowess exhibited by the PCU in the preparation and
implementation of project activities.

6. Lessons Learned
78.       The lessons derived from the project can be summarized below:

         Keeping the scope of the project straightforward and simple while including some forward
          looking, developmental elements, and allowing for maximum feasible flexibility of
          implementation greatly facilitates successful implementation of projects of such nature. The
          project’s design included flexible and adaptable elements that helped it thrive in difficult
          circumstances and laid the groundwork for continued improvements to municipal finances and
          overall municipal strengthening.
         Taking advantage of existing implementation capacity and extending the life of an already proven
          and tested PCU rather than creating new structures, helped improve the success of the project in a
          difficult environment. This project built on what was already there and working.
         Rapid response from the Bank project staff based in Lebanon for a large part, contributed to the
          success of project. They were able to quickly respond to problems when they arose and facilitated
          project restructuring as needed.
         The success of the project is linked to the overall effort that was sustained over time, in a context
          of political turmoil and uncertainty. Whilst focusing on emergency needs, the project was also
          able to address capacity building issues and to set the basis for effective municipal strengthening


                                                      -18-
       and decentralization. It also contributed to improving the life of people on a daily basis. Such an
       approach can only be developed and implemented over time as it is essential to establish
       meaningful reforms and achieve concrete progress on the ground.
      The short time allotted to the preparation of emergency operations, coupled with a rapid
       preparation process may require further development of the monitoring and evaluation framework
       at the early stages of implementation. The M&E framework is a key element of the project design
       which can only be well apprehended and developed after the initial steps of implementation of
       emergency reconstruction projects. It then can be at the core of project monitoring.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A
(b) Co-financiers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                                  -19-
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
            Components
                                        (USD millions)          (USD millions)          Appraisal
Reconstruction of Public
                                              17.95                    17.45                 97.21
Infrastructure
Municipal Recovery Development                 9.05                     9.91                 98.45
Project Management and Capacity
                                               3.00                     3.15                  105
Building
                Total Baseline Cost           30.00                    29.51

Physical Contingencies                         0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.00                    0.00                   0.00
                 Total Project Costs          30.00                   29.51                  98.37
Project Preparation Facility                  30.00                   29.51                  98.37
          Total Financing Required            30.00                   29.51                  98.37


(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                             Type of                                         Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                   Estimate        Estimate
                                           Cofinancing                                        Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                 0.00             0.00              .00
Special Financing                                        30.00            29.51             98.37




                                                 -20-
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure
      17 municipal building reconstructed.
      175 km of roads rehabilitated and repaired
      4684 streetlight poles erected.
      10.7 km of storm water drains repaired.
      48.7km on retaining walls
Component 2: Local Economic Recovery and Development
      Construction of 15 public facilities in 15 municipalities. Table A2.1 below provides a complete
       list of the project.
Component 3: Capacity Building
      Three (3) municipal finance studies were conducted
      Constructed and equipped municipal observatory.




                                                    -21-
Table A2.1. Component 1: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure - List of Projects
                                                                                                              No. of
  Caza              Municipality                                 Type of Project                             Projects
Akkar        Halba, Klaiaat, Kwaikha,       Retaining walls, Street lighting, Storm water                      15
             Aandkit, Qabeeit               drains(Halba,); Retaining walls, Street lighting, Storm
                                            water drains(Klaiaat,); Retaining walls, Street lighting,
                                            Storm water drains(Kwaikha); Roads, Street lighting,
                                            Retaining walls, Sewerage(Aandkit); Roads, Retaining
                                            walls(Qabeeit)
Baalbek      Bouday, Nabby Chit, Brital,    Municipal building, Roads, Retaining walls, Street                 14
             Bednayel                       lighting, Storm water Drains (Bouday); Roads, Street
                                            lighting, Sewerage (Nabby Chit); Roads, Street lighting,
                                            Retaining walls, Sewerage (Brital); Roads, Street
                                            lighting(Bednayel)
Bekaa        Sultan                         Roads, Street lighting(Sultan Yaakoub); Potable Water,              6
             Yaakoub, Aitanit               Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting (Aitanit)
Bent Jbeil   Ain Ebel, Chakra Wa            Potable Water, Roads, Street lighting(Ain Ebel); Roads,            112
             Doubieh, Hanine, Kalawieh,     Retaining walls, Street lighting(Chakra Wa Doubieh);
             Kawzah, Aytaroun, Beit Lif,    Potable Water, Roads, Street lighting (Hanine); Roads,
             Baraachit, Hadatha, Kafra,     Street lighting(Kalawieh); Municipal building, Roads,
             Soultanieh, Tebnine, Yaroun,   Retaining walls, Street lighting. Retaining walls
             Yater, Froun, Maroun El        (Kawzah); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining walls,
             Rass, Beit Yahoun,             Municipal building(Aytaroun); Roads, Street lighting,
             Ghandouriet, Rchaf,            Municipal building(Beit Lif); Roads, Street lighting,
             Kounine, Jmayjmeh, Ain         Retaining walls, Municipal building(Baraachit); Roads,
             Ebel, Haryss, Debbel 1, Deir   Retaining walls, Street lighting(Hadatha); Roads,
             Enttar, Kfar Dounine,          Retaining walls, Street lighting(Kafra); Roads, Street
             Kherbet Silm, Rmeich, Safad    lighting, Retaining walls, Storm water drains(Soultanieh);
             El Batikh, Tairry, Ramia,      Roads, Street lighting, Retaining walls, Sewerage,
             Sribinne, Kawzah 1, Borj       Potable Water, Roads (Tebnine); Roads, Street lighting,
             Kalaweih, Aita Eljabal         Retaining walls, Municipal building(Yaroun); Roads,
             1                              Street lighting, Retaining walls(Yater); Roads, Street
                                            lighting(Froun); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            walls(Maroun El Rass); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            wall(Beit Yahoun); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            walls (Ghandouriet); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            walls, Municipal building(Rchaf); Roads, Street lighting,
                                            Retaining walls, Municipal building, Storm water
                                            drains(Kounine); Roads, Retaining wall, Street
                                            lighting(Jmayjmeh); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            walls. Sewerage(Ain Ebel); Roads, Retaining wall, Street
                                            lighting(Haryss); Roads, Retaining wall(Debbel 1); Street
                                            lighting(Deir Enttar); Roads, Retaining wall, Street
                                            lighting(Kfar Dounine); Roads, Retaining wall, Street
                                            lighting(Kherbet Silm); Roads(Rmeich); Roads, Street
                                            lighting, Retaining walls, Municipal building(Safad El
                                            Batikh); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining walls(Tairry);
                                            Roads, Street lighting, Retaining walls, Municipal
                                            building (Ramia); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining
                                            walls(Sribinne); Roads, Street lighting, Retaining walls,
                                            Municipal building(Kawzah 1); Roads, Street lighting,
                                            Retaining walls(Borj Kalaweih); Roads, Street lighting,
                                            Retaining walls(Aita Eljabal 1)

Marjeyoun    Klaiaa, Blida, Adeyseh         Storm Water Drains, Roads, Retaining walls, Street           9
                                            lighting, Sewerage (Klaiaa); Roads, Retaining

                                                    -22-
                                                                                                         No. of
   Caza           Municipality                                  Type of Project                         Projects
                                           walls(Blida; Roads, Retaining walls(Adeyseh)
Nabatieh   Nabatieh, Tahta, Kfartebnit,    Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting(Nabatieh); Roads       17
           Zouter el Gharbieh, Arnoun,     (Kfartebnit);     Roads,    Retaining    walls,     Street
           Harouf, Jebchit, Douair         lighting(Zouter el Gharbieh); Roads, Retaining walls,
                                           Storm Water Drains(Arnoun); Roads, Retaining walls,
                                           Street lighting (Harouf); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
                                           lighting(Jebchit); Roads(Douair)
Saida      Saksakieh, Ghaziyeh,            Potable Water, Roads, Retaining walls, Street                  10
           Kharayeb                        lighting(Saksakieh); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
                                           lighting(Ghaziyeh); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
                                           lighting(Kharayeb)
Sour       Kawsariet el Sayad, Adloune,    Roads, Street lighting(Kawsariet el Sayad); Roads, Street      126
           Dordghaya, Maaroub,             lighting, Storm Water Drains (Adloune); Roads, Street
           Baflieh, Majdalzoun,            lighting(Dordghaya); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
           Marwahin, Bazourieh, Jwaya,     lighting(Maaroub); Retaining walls, Street lighting,
           Deir Qanoun el Nahr,            Storm Water Drains(Baflieh); Municipal building, Roads,
           Mansouri Ghaziyeh ,             Retaining walls,( Majdalzoun); Roads, Street lighting
           Kharayeb, eaamarieh,            (Marwahin); Roads, Street lighting(Jwaya); Retaining
           Ansariet, Arki,Aabasiyeh,Ain    walls, Street lighting(Deir); Roads, Retaining walls,
           Baal,Aitit,Batouleh,            Street lighting (Qanoun el Nahr); Roads, Retaining walls,
           Bourghlieh, Chahour,Qana,       Street lighting(Mansouri); Street Lightning, Roads,
           Klaili, Srifa, Tair,Felssieh,   Retaining walls (Ghaziyeh); Street Lightning, Roads,
           Bourjrahal, Ramadiet, Toura,    Retaining walls(Kharayeb); Roads, Retaining walls
           Salaa, Haloussiet, Yanouh,      (Meaamarieh); Street Lightning, Roads (Ansariet); Street
           Deir Aames, Chamea,             Lightning,     Roads,    Retaining     walls(Arki);Roads,
           Alboustan, Chihin, Tair         Retaining walls, Storm Water Drain(Aabasiyeh); Roads,
           Harfa, Deir Kifa, Dbaal,        Sewerage, Potable Water (Ain Baal); Roads, Retaining
           Borghliet,Sidikin, Deir         walls (Aitit); Roads, Retaining walls(Batouleh); Street
           Qanoun Rass Ain, Jebbine,       Lightning(Bourghlieh); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
           Mahrouna, Jbal Elbotom,         Lightning(Chahour); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
           Zibkin, Naquoura,               Lightning, Municipal Building(Qana);Retaining walls,
           Majdelzoun                      Street Lightning, Roads (Klaili); Roads, Retaining
                                           walls(Srifa); Roads(Tair Felssieh); Roads, Retaining
                                           walls(Bourjrahal);           Roads,             Retaining
                                           walls(Ramadiet);Roads(Toura); Roads(Salaa); Roads,
                                           Street Lightning, Retaining walls(Haloussiet); Roads,
                                           Storm Water Drain(Yanouh); Roads, Retaining Wall,
                                           Street Lightning (Deir Aames); Roads, Retaining Wall
                                           (Chamea); Roads, Retaining Wall, Street Lightning
                                           (Alboustan); Roads, Retaining Wall, Storm Water
                                           Drain(Chihin); Roads, Street Lightning, Retaining walls,
                                           Municipal Building (Tair Harfa); Roads, Street
                                           Lightning(Deir Kifa); Roads, Retaining Wall, Street
                                           Lightning (Dbaal); Roads(Borghliet); Roads, Retaining
                                           Wall, Street Lightning (Sidikin); Roads, Retaining Wall
                                           (Deir Qanoun Rass Ain); Retaining Wall, Street
                                           Lightning, Roads(Jebbine); Roads(Mahrouna); Retaining
                                           Wall, Street Lightning, Roads, Municipal Building(Jbal
                                           Elbotom);       Roads,     Retaining     Wall,      Street
                                           Lightning(Zibkin); Roads (Naquoura); Roads, Retaining
                                           Wall, Municipal Building(Majdelzoun)
Baabda     Baabda, Wadi Chahrour           Street lighting, Roads, Storm Water Drains, Retaining           6
           Elsoufla                        walls(Baabda); Street lighting , Roads, (Wadi Chahrour
                                           Elsoufla)

                                                   -23-
                                                                                                        No. of
   Caza            Municipality                                Type of Project                         Projects
Chouf       Chhim                         Street lighting, Roads, Retaining walls(Chhim)                  3
Jezzine     Aichiet, Mlikh, Rihan,                                                                       12
            Soujoud                       Roads, Retaining walls (Aichiet); Roads(Mlikh); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls, Street lighting, Sewerage, Storm Water
                                          Drain, Potable Water(, Rihan); Roads, Retaining walls,
                                          Street lighting(Soujoud)
Hasbaya     Ferdiss, Hasbaya,             Retaining walls, Storm Water Drain(Ferdiss); Roads,             8
            Kfarchouba                    Retaining walls, Street lighting (Hasbaya); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls, Street lighting(Kfarchouba)
Marjeyoun   Deir Mimas, Eble El Saki,     Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting, Municipal             49
            Houla, Marjeyoun,             building(Deir Mimas); Roads, Storm Water Drain, Street
            Khabrikha, Kfar Kila, Mais    lighting(Eble El Saki); Roads, Retaining walls(Houla);
            Eljabal, Bani Hayan,          Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting(Marjeyoun);
            Debbine, Blate, Sarada &      Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting(Khabrikha);
            Omra, Rub Tlatine, Kantra,    Roads, Retaining walls, Street lighting(Kfar Kila); Roads,
            Markaba, Sawaneh, Taybeh,     Retaining walls(Mais Eljabal); Roads, Retaining walls,
            Klayaat                       Street lighting(Bani Hayan); Roads, Retaining walls,
                                          Street lighting(Debbine); Roads, Retaining walls(Blate);
                                          Roads(Sarada & Omra); Roads, Retaining walls, Street
                                          lighting, Municipal
                                          building (Rub Tlatine); Roads(Kantra) Roads, Retaining
                                          walls (Kantra); Roads, Retaining walls(Markaba); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls, Street lighting(Sawaneh); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls, Street lighting (Taybeh); Roads,
                                          Sewerage, Retaining walls, Street lighting, Storm Water
                                          Drain(Klayaat)
Nabatieh    Ain Kana, Anssar, Arab        Roads, Retaining walls(Ain Kana); Roads, Retaining             48
            Salim, Douair, Habbouch,      walls, Street Lightning (Anssar); Roads, Retaining walls,
            Jbaa, Jebchit, Kaakaeit Al-   Street Lightning(Arab Salim); Roads(Douair,); Roads,
            Jisr, Kfar Syr, Kssaibet,     Retaining walls, Street Lightning(Habbouch); Roads,
            Mayfadoun, Roumyn, Sarba,     Retaining walls, Street Lightning, Sewerage, Storm
            Zaoutar El Charkiet, Zefta,   Water Drain(Jbaa);Roads, Retaining walls (Jebchit);
            Adchit, Choukin, Yohmor       Roads, Retaining walls, Street Lightning, Storm Water
                                          Drain(Kaakaeit Al-Jisr); Roads, Potable Water(Kfar Syr);
                                          Roads, Retaining walls(Kssaibet); Roads, Retaining
                                          walls, Street Lightning(Mayfadoun); Roads, Retaining
                                          walls, Street Lightning, Potable Water(Roumyn); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls, Street Lightning (Sarba); Roads,
                                          Retaining      walls,   Street    Lightning,    Municipal
                                          Building(Zaoutar El Charkiet); Roads, Retaining
                                          walls(Zefta); Roads, Retaining walls (Adchit); Roads,
                                          Retaining walls(Choukin); Roads (Yohmor)
Bekaa       Aitanit, Lebbaya              Roads(Lebbaya)                                                  1
Ouest
Zahle       Koussaya, Terboul             Roads, Retaining walls, Street Lightning(Koussaya);             4
                                          Roads(Terboul)
Total                                                                                                    440




                                                  -24-
        Table A2.2. Component 2: Municipal Recovery and Development - List of Projects
          Caza           Municipality              Type of project
Nabatieh                Ansar            Public market
Baalbeck                Maknet           Training and Cultural Center
West Bekaa              Saltan Yakoub    Multifunctional Project
Hasbaya                 Hasbaya          Public Ancient Market
Saida                   Zrarieh          Commercial Market
Chouf                   Baakline         Agric Products and Development
                                         center
Chouf                   Ain Zhalta       Water Pumping Station
Beint Jbel              Baraacht         Commercial Market
Beint Jbel              Ain Ebbel        Recreational Center
Jezzine                 Rihan            Public Garden Market & Tourism
Jezzine                 Kaytouly         Resort
Sour                    Srifa            Heritage Market
Sour                    Abbasseih        Commercial Market
Marjyoun                Majdal Slim      Multifunctional Commercial Center
Akkar                   Tikrit           Cultural Center for Agric Dev’t and
                                         Tourism




                                           -25-
Component 1: Construction of Public Infrastructure

Ebbel El Saki Roads (Asphalt), 2-Street Lighting, Storm Water Drains
Start Date: April 11, 2009 - End Date: January 2, 2010, Estimated Cost: US$17,425




Before Project                                    After Project

Kfarchouba Roads (Asphalt), 2-Retaining walls
Start Date: August 5, 2008 - End Date: January 13, 2009; Estimated Cost: US$59,502




Before Project                                    After Project


Sidikin Roads (Asphalt)
Start Date: January 2, 2010; End Date: July 4, 2010; Estimated Costs: US$44,290




Before Project                                    After Project




                                                 -26-
Tuline Roads (Asphalt), Street Lighting
Start Date: November 26, 2008 - End Date: September 5, 2009; Estimated Cost: US$26,500




Before Project                                     After Project


Baabda Roads (Asphalt), Retaining walls, Street Lighting, Potable Water, Strom Water Drain, and
Potable Water
Start Date: March 28, 2008 - End Date: December 29, 2009; Estimated cost: US$461,960             
 




                                                                                     
Before Project                                     After Project

Bednayel Roads (Asphalt), Retaining walls
Start Date: March 28, 2008 - End date: December 29, 2009; Estimated Cost: US$461,960




      Before Project                                     After Project




                                                 -27-
Jmayjmeh Roads (Asphalt), Retaining walls
Start Date: December 7, 2009 - End date: April 30, 2010; Estimated Cost: US$21,472




Before Project                                    After Project

Bourghlieh Roads (Asphalt)
Start Date: May 08, 2010 - End date: July 9, 2010; Estimated Cost: US$58,938




Before Project                                    After Project

Deir Amess Roads (Asphalt)
Start Date: October 2, 2007 - End Date: February 8, 2008; Estimated Cost: US$37,934




Before Project                                    After Project




                                                 -28-
Component 2: Municipal Recovery and Development


Hasbaya Municipal building (Public Ancient Market)
Start Date: June 21, 2010 - End Date: April 15, 2012; Estimated Cost: US$898,427




Before Project                                   After Project

Ansar Municipal Building (Public Market)
Start Date: June 21, 2010 - End Date: April 15, 2012; Estimated Cost: US$898,427




Before Project                                   After Project

Ain Ebbel Municipal building (Park)
Start Date: February24, 2011 - End Date: March 15, 2012; Estimated Cost: US$369,274




Before Project                                   After Project




                                                 -29-
Baraachit Municipal building (Souk)
Start Date: May 11, 2011 - End Date: March 16, 2012; Estimated Cost: US$369,274




Before Project                                  After Project

Rihan Municipal building (Public Garden)
Start Date: April 26, 2011 - End Date: November 4, 2011; Estimated Cost: US$147,838




Before Project                                  After Project

Baaklin Municipal building (Market and Development Center)
Start Date: February 2, 2011 - End Date: April15, 2012; Estimated Cost: US$1,018,265




Before Project                                  After Project




                                                -30-
                            Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

79.      Introduction. The development objectives of the project were to: (i) restore basic services and
rebuild priority public infrastructure in the affected municipalities and villages; (ii) support local
economic recovery and development in the municipalities that had suffered the heaviest damage; and (iii)
provide technical assistance to and build the capacity of municipalities to mitigate the impact of the
hostilities on municipal finances (within the broader context of developing the municipal sector).

80.      Project beneficiaries and benefits. The project directly benefited a total population of about
375,427 (about 276,774 from Component 1 and 98,653 from Component 2) and about 2,164,445 indirect
in the cazas, as identified on the basis of registered population. Beneficiaries in the intervention areas
benefited from provision of basic infrastructure such as roads, street lighting, retaining walls, sewerage,
storm water drains, municipal buildings for Component 1 and public markets, training and cultural
centers, multifunctional facilities, public ancient markets, commercial market, agricultural products and
development centers, water pumping stations, commercial markets, recreational centers, public gardens,
market and tourism centers, resorts, heritage markets, multifunctional commercial centers, cultural centers
for agricultural development and tourism for Component 2 (See complete list in Annex 2).

81.    Methodology. The FMIP Grant was an emergency project and did not require a rigorous
economic and financial analysis in accordance with Bank’s operational guidelines and procedures
(OP.8.50). Therefore, an ex-ante conventional cost benefit analysis (CBA) was not conducted at appraisal.
Economic analysis was however part of the selection criteria for sub-projects.

82.      Unit cost comparison. To ascertain whether implementation of project interventions was cost
efficient, the ICR team performed a comparison of the project’s unit cost with similar projects in country
and in the Middle East and North Africa (MNA) region.

83.      The team ascertained that, despite the difficult environment within which the project operated,
unit costs of the project’s physical outputs (rehabilitated/ repaired roads, repaired retaining walls,
rehabilitated storm water drains/sewerage) for which comparable data were available, compare favorably
with outputs of similar works in the country and in the region. Under the project, a kilometer of road was
completed at a unit cost of US$56,332/km, which is well below the unit costs of similar works in Jordan
(US$177,500/km). As shown in Table A3.1, the unit cost of rehabilitating a kilometer of a storm water
drain was US$139,371/km compared with higher for similar projects in Jordan (US$225,000/km),West
Bank and Gaza (242,560/km), and slightly lower for Yemen (162,400/km).

Table A3.1. Comparison of unit costs of project outputs by country
Output                 Lebanon (FMIP Grant) Jordan (USD) West Bank & Gaza (USD) Yemen (USD)
                       (USD)
Road/km                56,332                    177,500        242,560                       162,400
Municipal Building     -                         492,000        734,000                       517,000
Drainage/km            139,371                   225,000        155,360                       -
Street Lighting (No.) 261                        1,152          -                             -
Portable Water/km      10,336                    11,000         -                             -
Sewerage/km            36,349                    40,000         -                             -
Source: Figures obtained from FMIP Grant database; Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project II, ICR,
West Bank and Gaza, December 20, 2011; Port Cities Development Project, ICR, December 30, 2010.



                                                     -31-
84.     Within Lebanon, the cost the project’s infrastructure was found to be the same or slightly less
than other similar projects in the country. For example, the unit cost of a repaired road was
US$56,332/km for the project, compared with US$58,000 for non-FMIP projects. Similarly, the unit cost
of constructing a kilometer of sewerage is US$36,349/km for the project, compared with US$40,000 for a
non-FMIP project. Table A3.2 compares unit costs of the project’s main outputs with those of non-FMIP
projects in Lebanon.

Table A3.2. Comparison of unit cost of FMIP and non-FMIP projects
Output                               FMIP Grant (US$)                      Non- FMIP projects (US$)
Road/km                              56,332                                58,000
Drainage/km                          139,371                               95,000
Street Lighting (No.)                261                                   1,152
Portable Water/km                    10,336                                11,000
Sewerage/km                          36,349                                40,000
Source: Figures obtained from FMIP Grant database.

85.      Cost per beneficiary. An analysis of cost per beneficiary by sub-project for Components 1 and 2
activities was conducted to ascertain the cost per head of each project implemented in a sample of 33
municipalities for Component 1 and all 11 cazas for Component 2. For Component 1, the BAS provides a
detailed estimate of the number of beneficiaries per sub-project and municipality. A total of 87 sub-
projects were evaluated in 33 municipalities. Based on the figures in the BAS, a detailed estimate of the
number of beneficiaries was made for the ICR, showing that 54,726 people benefited directly from the
sub-projects (a conservative estimate, as the BAS used the number of registered voters rather than actual
estimated population a basis for the analysis). Scaling this figure up to the whole of Component 1 leads to
a realistic estimate of 276,774 direct beneficiaries. By comparing this number to the total cost of
Component 1 (USD 17,450,000), we get an estimated cost per beneficiary of USD 63.05 (See Table A3.3
below).

86.       A total of 2,263,098 beneficiaries, of which 98,653 and 2,164,445 were direct and indirect
beneficiaries respectively, benefited from Component 2 interventions8. The results of the analysis show
that overall the project recorded acceptable costs per beneficiary reached, with costs ranging from $1.65
per beneficiary for provision of a commercial market in Baaracht municipality to $94.92 per beneficiary
for the provision of a water pumping station in Ain Zhalta municipality. In terms of cost per category of
beneficiaries, it cost less to reach indirect beneficiaries ($4.280) than direct beneficiaries ($93.99) as the
project captured a lot more indirect beneficiaries than direct beneficiaries in all the cazas covered; indirect
beneficiaries constituted 95.6% of total beneficiaries reached. These costs compared favorably with the
cost per beneficiary (US$68) of the predecessor project (FMIP Loan), against US$94 for the FMIP Grant.
The Loan targeted a quarter of the population of Lebanon, but the difference with the Grant being that the
latter (through Component 2) financed more substantial works, which might have higher investment per
capita, but had a specific local economic development aspect, promising good returns on investments
beyond the reconstruction effect. Table A3.4 provides detailed results of the Component 2 analysis.

87.     Overall costs of materials, goods and services were reasonable. The escalation of prices of
materials experienced as a result of regional and country context was well-contained through the project’s
financing mechanism. By design, funding from the unallocated expenditure category helped minimize the
impact of the high prices on project implementation. Project management costs were reasonable in light
of Bank experience, and country context. The cost of project management was only about 4.1% of total


8
 Component 2 was designed to impact a broader community and so uses direct as well as indirect beneficiaries,
whereas Component 1 only estimates direct beneficiaries.

                                                     -32-
cost of the project, and well below the generally accepted interval of 5 to 8 percent for a project of this
nature with many sub-projects.

Table A3.3. Project Cost per beneficiary by type of project (Component 1)
                                                                                                Beneficiari
                                                                                                   es as
                                                                                                percentage     Cost per
                                                                    Sub-project                   of total      Direct
                                                                       cost        Direct          voter      Beneficiary
  Caza      Municipality                Project Name                  (US$)     Beneficiaries   population      (US$)
                           Retaining walls/ Street lighting/Storm
Baalbeck   Bouday          water drains                                  21,329         2,164          50%            9.86
           Nabby Chit      Roads/Street lighting/Sewerage                10,569         2,679          44%            3.95
           Sultan
Bekaa      Yaakoub         Roads/Street lighting                         16,185         2,715        100%             5.96
                           Potable Water/Roads/Retaining
           Aitanit         walls/Street Lighting                         35,452         1,023          57%           34.65
                           Roads/Retaining walls/Street
Bent Jbeil Ain Ebel        lighting/Sewerage                             52,340         3,750          84%           13.96
           Chakra Wa
           Doubieh         Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting         48,996         1,253          21%           39.09
           Hanine          Potable Water/Roads/Street Lighting           39,634           726          50%           54.59
           Kalawieh        Roads/Retaining walls                         30,242           235          20%         128.69
                           Municipal Building/Roads/Retaining
           Kawzah          walls/Street lighting                        119,095           756        100%          157.53
Marjeyoun Adchit el Kseir Roads/Retaining walls                          44,118           168          29%         262.75
           Kseir           Roads/Retaining walls/Street Lighting         18,315           153        100%          119.71
           Touline         Roads/Street Lighting                         26,318           966          50%           27.26
           Bourj el
           Moulouk         Roads                                         22,252         1,110        100%            20.05
                           Roads/Retaining walls/Street
           Klaiaa          lighting/Sewerage/Storm water drains         219,953           612          18%         359.19

           Blida           Roads/Retaining walls                         21,606         1,489          31%           14.51
           Adeyseh         Roads/Street Lighting                        246,471         3,728        100%            66.11
Nabatieh   Nabatieh Tahta Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting          29,136         3,649          19%            7.98
           Kfartebnit      Roads                                         47,090         2,614          71%           18.01
           Zouter el
           Gharbieh        Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting         68,812         1,160        100%            59.32
                           Roads/Street lighting/Storm water
           Arnoun          drains                                        38,094         1,669        100%            22.82
           Harouf          Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting         13,702         2,365          50%            5.80
           Jebchit         Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting         23,513           336           6%           69.88
           Douair          Roads                                         17,917         2,217          47%            8.08
                           Potable Water/Roads/Retaining
Saida      Saksakieh       walls/Street Lighting                         60,853         4,240        100%            14.35
           Kawsariet el
           Sayad           Roads/Street lighting                           9,960          870          48%           11.45
Sour       Dordghaya       Roads/Street lighting                         43,557           666          80%           65.44
           Maaroub         Roads/Retaining walls/Street lighting         17,560         1,043          50%           16.84
                           Retaining walls/Street lighting/Storm
           Baflieh         water drains                                  44,324         1,039          68%           42.66


                                                             -33-
                             Municipal Building/Roads/Retaining
           Majdalzoun        walls                                          109,682             2,122               100%        51.69
           Marwahin          Roads/Street lighting                          190,910                  696              65%      274.49
           Bazourieh      Roads/Retaining walls                             116,039             4,091               100%        28.36
           Deir Qanoun el
           Nahr           Roads/Retaining walls                                 48,415          1,460                 50%       33.16
        Mansouri       Roads/Retaining walls                                    48,843            963                 50%       50.75
 Total,      33                                                                                    (a)
sample municipalities             87 sub-projects                          1,901,285           54,726                 46%       34.74
 Total,     178                                                                                    (b)                             (c)
Comp. 1 municipalities           440 sub-projects                        17,450,000           276,774                 46%       63.05
          (a) Corresponds to 629 beneficiaries per sub-project.
          (b) Based on beneficiaries per sub-project.
          (c) Based on total cost and total estimated beneficiaries. The difference between the cost per beneficiary
              for the BAS sample and total cost per beneficiary could be attributed to underestimation of total
              number of beneficiaries.

Table A3.4. Project Cost per beneficiary by type of project (Component 2)


                                                                                                   Cost per Cost per
                                              Total                                                 Direct     Indirect Total Cost per
                                           Project cost    Direct       Indirect       Total      Beneficiary Beneficiary Beneficiary
  Caza    Municipality     Project Name      (US$)      Beneficiaries Beneficiaries Beneficiaries   (US$)       (US$)       (US$)
Nabatieh Ansar           Public market        898,426         8,654       199,592         208,246          103.82       4.31       4.31
                         Training and
Baalbeck Maknet          Cultural Center    1,063,689         7,092       338,440         345,532          149.98       3.14       3.08
West     Saltan          Multifunctional
Bekaa Yakoub             Project              469,038         4,001       120,741         124,742          117.23       3.88       3.76
                         Public Acient
Hasbaya Hasbaya          Market               257,000        10,500        62,224          72,724           24.48       4.13       3.53
                         Commercial
Saida     Zrarieh        Market               893,567         8,414       228,529         236,943          106.20       3.91       3.77
                         Agric Products
                         and Development
Chouf     Baakline       center             1,018,265         9,868       251,242         261,110          103.19       4.05       3.90
                         Water Pumping
Chouf     Ain Zhalta     Station              394,000         4,151         -               4,151           94.92 -               94.92
Beint                    Comercial
Jbel      Baraacht       Market               349,703         8,284       203,345         211,629           42.21       1.72       1.65
Beint                    Recreational
Jbel      Ain Ebbel      Center               369,273         6,193         -               6,193           59.63 -               59.63
                         Public Garden
                         Market &
Jezzine   Rihan          Tourism              174,489         4,485        68,007          72,492           38.91       2.57       2.41
Jezzine   Kaytouly       Resort               147,835         2,020         -               2,020           73.19                 73.19
Sour      Srifa     Heritage Market           528,141         6,700         -               6,700           78.83                 78.83
                    Commercial
Sour    Abbasseih Market                      690,787         7,782       199,592         207,374           88.77       3.46       3.33
                    Multifunctional
Marjyou             Commercial
n       Majdal Slim Center                    694,500         6,759       148,392         155,151          102.75       4.68       4.48
                    Cultural Center
                    for Agric Dev't
Akkar Tikrit        and Tourism             1,323,877         3,750       344,341         348,091          353.03       3.84       3.80
Total                                       9,272,590        98,653     2,164,445        2,263,098          93.99       4.28       4.10


                                                               -34-
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Robert Maurer                   Lead Urban Specialist             MNSUR Task Team Leader
                                Sr. Municipal Development               Municipal
Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout                                           MNSUR
                                Specialist                              Development
Sophie Urnechlian               Project Assistant
Sara Gonzalez Flavell           Sr. Counsel                       LEGLE
Ghada Youness                   Sr. Counsel                       LEGLE
Diana Masri                     Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Lina Fares                      Procurement Specialist            MNAPC
Tiguist Fisseha                 Social Development Specialist
Mutasem El Fadel                Sr. Environment Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Robert Maurer             Lead Urban Specialist                   MNSUR Task Team Leader
Chantal Reliquet          Sr. Urban Management Specialist         MNSUR Task Team Leader
                          Urban Specialist
Christianna Johnnides Brotsis                                     MNSUR
Diana C. El Masri         Consultant                              MNAFM
                          Senior Municipal Development
 Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout                                          MNSUR
                          Specialist
                          Sr. Financial Management
 Mona El-Chami                                                    MNAFM
                          Specialist
Julie Rieger              Counsel                                 LEGLE
 Mutasem El-Fadel         Consultant                              MNSWA
 Lina Fares               Senior Procurement Specialist           MNAPC
                          Disaster Risk Management
 Tiguist Fisseha                                                  LCSDU
                          Specialist
 Sara Gonzalez Flavell    Senior Counsel                          LEGLE
 Rock Jabbour             Financial Management Analyst            MNAFM
                          Sr. Financial Management
 Rima Abdul-Amir Koteiche                                         MNAFM
                          Specialist
 Olivier Lavinal          Operations Officer                      MNCMI
Kofi Amponsah             Consultant                              MNSSD ICR primary author
                          Urban Development Specialist
Christian Vang-Eghoff                                             MNSSD ICR reviewer
                          (Consultant)
 Maya El-Azzazi           Program Assistant                       MNSSD




                                              -35-
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                       4.00                     24.99
  FY08                                       -                         0.00
                          Total:             4.00                     24.99
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                      3.55                        8.34
 FY08                                     10.97                       61.19
 FY09                                      6.92                       51.87
 FY10                                     13.83                       85.22
 FY11                                     12.55                       81.52
 FY12                                     15.30                       99.04
 FY13                                      1.68                        6.73
                          Total:          64.80                      387.18




                                      -36-
                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

88.    As noted in section 2.3, a key aspect of the project’s M&E mechanism was a systematic
conduction of BAS to gauge the project’s impacts on its target population. Two separate BAS
were conducted for components 1 and 2 and in three rounds. The final round of assessment,
which forms part of the project evaluation, found that the project’s beneficiaries were generally
conversant and very satisfied with the support they received from the project.

89.      Component 1: Employment creation. The project helped create employment in the local
economy. For example, the 117 out 131 contractors indicated they hired local employees as part
of their team from a municipality, caza, or Mouhafaza. As shown in Table A5.1, on the average,
12.2% of employees were hired from the municipalities. The majority of the employees were
from the immediate communities as indicated by the average number of workers hired from the
municipality (12 workers per project) which was much higher than that of the caza (3 workers per
project) and the Mouhafaza (one worker).

                     Table A5.1 Employment effects of FMIP Grant Projects
             Number of workers hired          Municipality Caza     Mouhafaza
             None                             3                27   55
             Between 2 and 5                  15               30   7
             Between 5 and 10                 37               11   5
             Between 10 and 20                6                -    1
             More than 20                     7                -    -
             No answer                        49               49   49
             Average number of workers        12.19            3.06 1.09
             employed per project
                Source: Information International, Beirut, Lebanon

90.      Improvement in local economic activities. The project helped improve economic
activities in local areas as contractors purchased most of their materials from the local market.
The BAS results showed that majority of the contractors (95%) indicated that they purchased
some material from within the municipality and the caza. The survey results also showed that
37% of contractors indicated that they purchased all their primary materials locally from within
the municipality, 22% purchased from the caza, and 10% from the Mouhafaza.

91.      With regard to Component 2, the assessment sought to examine the project’s impact on
the beneficiaries in light of the implementation of LED projects. Overall, 263,098 beneficiaries of
whom 98,653 are direct beneficiaries and 2,164,445 are indirect beneficiaries benefited from the
project’s interventions. The project helped established major economic activities that were vital
for economic health of the areas. These activities include: (i) establishment of agricultural
centers; (ii) development of water pumping station; (iii) development of public markets (iv)
establishment of heritage product centers; (v) establishment of recreational centers (vi)
development of commercial markets . Below are the results in some selected municipalities.

92.     Municipality of Baakline. In the municipality of Baakline, the project established the
agricultural center, which served over 500 farmers in the area. It provided retail and wholesale
spaces in strategic position for the sale agricultural the products in the area. This helped reduce
transportation costs, middlemen fees and increased revenues for the famer. In addition, the center
housed agricultural research center that would run by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in order
to assist farmers to improve their yields and control crop diseases. This will generate also

                                               -37-
employment for the local resident population especially women. In order to generate employment
in the area, the center housed a light agro-food manufacturing facility which was meant to
manufacture artisanal-type products from the local farmers’ products. The project also form part
of the revamping of tourism in the Baakline area as the retail public market will be part of the
tourist circuit planned by the municipality.

93.      Municipality of Ain Zhalta. In Ain Zhalta municipality the project supported the
development of a water pumping station, which now supplies two towns in Ain Zhalta and Nabaa
el Safa municipalities. In Abbasiyeh the project established a public market located in a strategic
area adjacent to a new highway closed to Abbassiyeh. The strategically location public market
has attracted traders and consumers from around the area. This served as a major outlet for the
area’s agricultural products which were hitherto marketed through the Sour and Saida public
market (or “Hisba?). This has helped reduce transportation costs as well as middlemen fees.

94.     Municipality of Srifa. In Srifa the project established a heritage products market for the
creation of an artisanal production sector in the area. The heritage market has become part of a
new Saudi-financed cultural center complex built by the municipality. The area has, hence,
become a commercial, cultural and recreational hub for Srifa and the region.

95.    Municipality of Majdel Selm. In Majdel Selm, the project built a multifunctional business
and shopping center in the middle of the town of Majdel Selm. It now accommodates many
commercial and cultural activities, which have impact on quality of life, employment and income.




                                               -38-
      Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

96.     After the municipal sector at-large has been significantly affected by the hostilities of
2006 war, and because of the combination of growing municipal expenditures and scarce
resources the capacity of the municipalities to deliver basic services to the vulnerable population
has been seriously compromised. The objectives of the additional financing grant were to (i)
restore basic services and rebuild priority public infrastructure in the affected municipalities and
villages , (ii) support local economic recovery and development in the municipalities that have
suffered the heaviest damage, and (iii) provide technical assistance to and build the capacity of
municipalities to mitigate the impact of the hostilities on municipal finances (within the broader
context of developing the municipal sector).

97.     In pursuit of these objectives, the grant financed three components:

Component 1: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (US$18.0 million). This component
finances the reconstruction of priority public infrastructure destroyed or damaged during the
hostilities in about 185 municipalities not supported by other donors. Sub-projects consist of, but
are not limited to, urban roads, sidewalks, retaining walls, street lighting, water and sewerage
networks, municipal buildings and ICT equipment.
Component 2: Municipal Recovery and Development (US$9.0 million). This component
provides assistance to build new municipal infrastructure in order to help revive the local
economy. Among others, it finances market places, access to public facilities, site and services
schemes, and the upgrading of service delivery systems and related equipment. The grant
supports development-oriented sub-projects in about 10 to 15 municipalities that (i) receive
reconstruction assistance from other donors and (ii) show the highest potential to become growth
centers for the regional economy.
Component 3: Project Management and Capacity Building (US$3.0 million). This
component supports the following activities: (i) project management and technical assistance for
implementing the additional financing grant, and (ii) capacity building for increasing local
revenues and improving transparency in the management of intergovernmental transfers and
financial flows between the central government and the municipalities.

Project Achievements and Outcomes

98.     The objectives were well achieved with satisfactory development results. The following
are major outputs/outcomes of the project:

Component One: Reconstructing and rehabilitating of essential municipal development
infrastructure and urban development projects. These investments increased the quality of life and
living conditions.
Component Two: Development oriented sub-projects facilitated economy recovery, reduced
unemployment, and generated local incomes.
Component Three: Building and strengthening the Project Coordination Unit to establish an
extensive experience in institutional development and urban development projects
implementation capabilities. In addition, setting up and operating a Municipal Observatory at the
MOIM to help in policy formation and planning at the national level. Moreover, Municipal
Finance Studies were done in the aim of strengthening the municipal finance framework.



                                               -39-
Institutional Development Outcome

99.      The PCU experience helped the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities and Lebanon’s
capabilities in managing, implementing, organizing and developing potentials, qualifications and
possibilities of any international or local intervention in upgrading and developing the municipal
sector. And many agencies are active and working with the DGLA&C which benefited from the
PCU know-how experience.

100.     Moreover, two main projects took place under the capacity building program for
institutional development:

          The Municipal Finance Studies Program which came up with Strategic Framework and a
           Road Map to improve and develop the Lebanese municipal financial situation.
          Establishing of the Municipal Observatory in the MOIM to provide a better
           understanding of the municipal situation and to help the decision maker to have a better
           situation analysis and understanding.

Lessons Learned/Recommendations

Listed below are some of the lessons learned through the cumulative experience of the PCU
during the project lifespan.

 (i)       Close on-site assistance: Experience showed that backing is recommended to be
           provided by individual consultants to the problematic municipalities that are shown to
           face difficulties in the preparation of their projects proposals and PAF(s). The technical
           support will certainly have a positive impact on the pace of work and will involve all the
           municipalities in a practical development process.
 (ii)      Continuous follow-up of the individual consultants: Practical needs validated that
           tracking coupled with direct involvement, when necessary, of the individual consultants
           with the municipalities accompanied by the close monitoring in carrying out the
           necessary requirements will certainly affect the lengthy unjustifiable administrative cycle.
(iii)      Municipal & Central Database: One of the important lessons showed the needs for
           upgrading the municipal database at both municipal & central levels which will allow the
           concerned parties to track the physical conditions of the existing infra-structural networks
           in order to closely monitor the needs of the rural communities and avoid duplication of
           projects. It is also extremely advantageous for setting the ground for the master plans.
           Therefore, a municipal observatory was established in the DGLA&C. The MO is
           established and would be tasked to collect and monitor municipal data through a
           Municipality Performance Management System (MPMS) that was installed in the MO
           premises with a web interface to allow municipalities to enter their data periodically. The
           MO will monitor and track the financial situations of all municipalities over Lebanon
           through receiving and analyzing different financial data on revenues, recurrent, capital
           expenditures, debt, bilateral and multilateral assistance programs and budgets. More
           information related to municipal status, demographic information and other information
           may also be received and analyzed by the observatory.
(iv)       Municipal Master Plans: Experience showed that undertaking the necessary
           coordination with all central institutions towards improvising master plans tackling all
           municipal services will allow the municipal councils to have in hand a large menu of
           services that need to be upgraded or implemented such as: (i) Urban & Transportation

                                                  -40-
       Plans in coordination with MOIM, MOPW (Ministry of Public Work), & CDR (Council
       of Reconstruction and Development); (ii) Sewage Network Master Plans in parallel with
       "small-scale Treatment Plants" in coordination with Ministry of Environment (MOE),
       Ministry of Hydraulic & Electric Resources (MHER), MOIM, & CDR; (iii)solid Waste
       Master Plan in parallel with "small-scale Treatment Plants" in coordination with MOE,
       MOIM, & CDR; and (iv) Potable Water Master Plan in parallel with "small-scale
       Treatment Plants, Wells, & Reservoirs" in coordination with MHER, MOIM, & CDR.
(v)    Establishment of clear & defined inter-governmental financial framework: Practical
       experience showed that the sustainability of municipal investments depends largely on
       substantially improving the municipal & intergovernmental finance system. The
       organization of the fiscal structure in parallel with empowering the collection of local due
       taxes, will allow local officials to program community investments. The predictability of
       transfers from the IMF (Independent Municipal Fund), review or local tax system, and
       promotion of cost-recovery practices, will have great positive impact on the living
       conditions in rural areas. On the other hand, continuous control over municipal budgets to
       track local expenditure on implementation & maintenance of public works is urged.
(vi)   Building capacity at the central level through a developmental administrative plan:
       Experience through this project showed that filling the vacancies with qualified personnel
       in the MOIM in parallel with the establishment of a solid inter-governmental
       administrative system through a developmental administrative plan will allow assuming
       the responsibility of managing the municipal sector. The MOIM oversight functions over
       the municipal records and performance through an established Municipal Observatory at
       the DGLA&C which are of great importance for the development of the urban and rural
       areas.




                                              -41-
                        Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.     Aide memoire of Supervision Missions (2006-2012)
2.       Borrower ICR: implementation completion Report, Lebanon First Municipal
Infrastructure Project(GRANT TF 057505 – LE)
3.     Beneficiary Assessment Survey, Component 2: Municipal Recovery & Development
Report Grant (TF 057 505 –le), February 20, 2012
4.      Implementation Completion and Results Report, First Municipal Infrastructure Project,
June 1 2009.
5.     Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Lebanon for the period FY-09 July 9, 2007
6.     Information International, Beneficiary assessment: component 2, Municipal Recovery &
Development Report, Grant (TF 057 505 –LE), February 20, 2012
7.     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development & International Finance
Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for Lebanese Republic for the period FY11-FY14
8.     ISRs of Supervision missions (2006-2012)
9.     Project Appraisal Document, on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$80 million to the
Lebanese Republic for a First Municipal Infrastructure project, May 26,2000
10.    Project Paper, First Municipal Infrastructure Project, October 27 2006.
11.    Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1), Summary Assessment Sheet,
October8, 2008
12.   Unemployment rates in regions (MOSA, 2006). For poverty rates, Laithy et al. (2008)
For UBN, MOSA (2007)




                                             -42-
MAP




-43-
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                    35°30'                                                                                   36°00'                                                                     36°30'
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
           any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                   To Tartus
           or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                              To Tartus                                     To Hims



                                                                                    LEBANON
                                            FIRST MUNICIPAL                                                                                                                                                           AKKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Halba
                                        INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                 Akkar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34°30'
           34°30'

                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH LEBANON                                                                         To Hims
                                                                                                                                             Tripoli

                                                                                                                                                                        Zhga ta
                                                                                                                                                                        Zhgarta                                                               Hermel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              He mel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL HERMEL                              To Hims
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRIPOLI
                                                                                                                                             EL KOURA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                Chekka                               ZGHARTA
                                                                                                                                                                     ZGHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                  Mediterranean                                                                                                                      BCHARRI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                              2     Batroun                                                                     Bcharri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           U
                                                                                                                                                              B TROUN
                                                                                                                                                           EL BATROUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                         Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N E B
                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                      JBEIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                          O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                     Jbeil




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U L
                                                                                                                  (Byblos)                                                                                             BAALBECK
                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                 B




                                                                                                                                                                      Afqa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                              KESROUANE
                                                                                                                abarja
                                                                                                               Tabarja



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                           L




                                                                                                                                     MOUNT                                                                                       Baalbeck                                               34°00'
           34°00'                                                                                                 Jounieh
                                                                                                          3                                                                                     B         E       K        A       A
                                                                                                                                                M TN
                                                                                                                                             EL MATN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                              A




                                                                                         BEIRUT                                      LEBANON
                                                                                                                                                                                                              K




                                                                                       BEIRUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                              Dahr-El-Bachek
                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                      BAABDA                                                    Rayak
                                                                                                                                 Ras                                          Zahleh
                                                                                                              Baabda             El Matin 4
                                                                                                                                                                               ZAHLEH
                                                                                                                      Aley     5                                    Shtaura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MUNICIPALITIES VISITED
                                                                                                                                                           9                                                                                          DURING ICR REVIEW:
                                                                                                              Chwaifat        ALEY
                                                                                                Khalde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1    AMYOUN
                                                                                              Damour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2    BATROUN
                                                                                                                    Beit ed Dine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3    JOUNIEH
                                                                                       Jieh                                           10         BEKAA GHARBI
                                                                                                          EL CHOUF                                                                                                                                4    RAS EL MATIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5    BHAMDOUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Dimashq
                                                                                                                                                                      RACHAI
                                                                                                                                                                      RACHAIYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (Damascus)                          6    MAJDELYOUN

                                                              Saida                               7                                                                                                                                               7    SFAREY
                                                                                   6                Jezzine                                                     Deir El Ahmar
                                                                                          SO UT H L
                                                                                          SOUTH   LE BA
                                                                                                    EB AN ON
                                                                                                         NON                                                                                                                                      8    ZIBDINE

           33°30'
                                                                                                                                                                Rachaiya                                                                          9    KABE ELIAS                       33°30'
                                                                     Zahrani                  Sarba
                                                                                                          JEZZINE                                                                                                                                10    KEFRAYA
                                                             SAIDA
                                                                                   NABATIYEH                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                     HASBAYA
                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                     PRIMARY HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                       Marjayoun
                                                                                   Nabatiyeh                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                       NABATIYEH                                                                                                           PORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AIRPORT
                            Tyre                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                          (Sour)
                                                                                         MARJAYOUN                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
                                                 SOUR                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN CITIES
                                                                       Tibnin
                                                                        ibnin                                                                                                                                              GREATER BEIRUT

                                         SOUTH LEBANON                                                                                                                                                                     CAZA BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                               0         5       10        15 KILOMETERS                                                   GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                  BINT JBEIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 35148R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                               0             5                 10              15 MILES
MAY 2009




                    To Hefa (Haifa)                                                              35°30'                                                                                    36°00'                                                                   36°30'
