Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18744
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(Ln. 3935-0, 3935-1 MOR)
December 21, 1998
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirhams (Dh)
At Completion: US$ 1 = Dh 9.5
At Appraisal: US$ 1 = Dh 8.5
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Morocco
1 January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNCA                        National Agriculture Credit Ban-k
DRCR                        Department of Road and Road Transport
DDF                         Forestry Department
DE                          Department of Livestock, Ministry of Agriculture
DGH                         Department of Hydraulics, Ministry of Public Works
DGR                         Department of Rural Works, M/inistry of Agriculture
FRSCL                       Fixed Rate single Currency Loan
FSR                         Road Maintenance Fund
GOM                         Government of Morocco
LPSO                        Livestock Production and Safeguard project
MAMVA                       Ministry of Agriculture
MTP                         Ministry of Public Work
MSP                         Ministry of Public Health
O&M                         Operation and Maintenance
OCC                         Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODEP                        National Port Authority
ONEP                        National Water Supply Authority
ONICL                       National Cereals Office
PAGER                       Countrywide Rural Water Supply and Sanitation program
SIMEL                       Livestock Information and Modelling System
RWS                         Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
ORMVA                       Regional hrrigation Authority
SONACOS                     Moroccan National Seeds Marketing Company
SPTP                        Regional Services for Public Works, MTP
Vice President              : Mr. K. Dervis
Country Director             Mr. Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager               Mr. Salah Darghouth
Team Leader                 : Mr. Trayambkeshwar Sinha



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Ln. 3935-0, 3935-1 MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ................................. .................................. ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............                ........................... 1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................... 2
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND FINANCING  ......... 3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......... 3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...... 6
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ................................ 6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ....................................... 7
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................. 7
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................. 7
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................  8
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED  .................................... 9
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................... 12
APPENDICES:                  A.    ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
B.    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR:
(available il tite project files)
- ONEP's Conclusion Report (Rapport d'achèvement)
- MAMVA's Strategy to mitigate the impact of future droughts in the Livestock sub-sector
C.    Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Ln. 3935-0, 3935,1 -MOR)
PREFACE
1.   In 1994/1995 Morocco was hit by one of the most severe droughts of this century. Its
effects were devastating, especially in the agricultural sector and in rural areas in general. The
agricultural GDP, already affected by the droughts of 1992 and 1993, declined by 45 % in 1995
(in 1994 agriculture contributed 23 % to total GDP). The livestock and cereal production sectors
were the most seriously affected. In 1995, cereal production represented only 17 % of that of the
previous year, 1.6 million tons, as compared to 9.4 million tons in 1994. The drought also had a
negative impact on the production of livestock feed. The successive droughts of 1992, 1993 and
1994/1995 had also affected water tables and had reduced water available for human and animal
consumption.  Overall, the drought resulted in a decline of agricultural employment and,
consequently, in a decline of rural income in general.
2.   In 1995, the Government of Morocco and the World Bank agreed on the financing of a
portion of the public drought emergency program. In July 1995, a World Bank mission prepared,
appraised and negotiated a project of US$ 334 million, with a Bank loan of US$ 50 million and
FF 240 million (a total equivalent to US$ 100 million in July 1995 and US$ 95.7 million in July
1998, due to depreciation of the French franc against the US dollar). The loan was approved by
the Board on August 29, 1995 and closed on June 30, 1998.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRPI
(Ln. 3935-0,3935-1-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    After the remarkable growth of the agricultural sector in the late 1980's, Morocco was
experiencing difficulties in the agriculture sector in the 1990's due to frequent droughts. The
emergency situation was brought about by exceptionally low rainfalls in 1994-95, averaging only
about 47 % of recorded annual precipitation average. In 1995, agricultural GDP (in 1994 about
23 % of total GDP) declined by 45 %, compared to the previous year. Total cereal harvest was
81 % below the 1994 level and 71 % below the average of the five preceding years. The
livestock sub-sector suffered from insufficient vegetation on rangelands and a shortage of
drinking water. Agriculture provides employment to at least 40 % of Morocco's population and
81 % in rural areas. Job losses were estimated at 100 million work days, equivalent to about US$
600 million loss in income.
2.   In May 1995, the Government of Morocco and the World Bank agreed on the financing
of a portion of the public drought emergency program. In July 1995, a World Bank mission
prepared, appraised and negotiated an Emergency Drought Recovery Project of US$ 334 million,
with a Bank loan of US$ 50 million and FF 240 million (a total equivalent to US$ 100 million in
July 1995, and equivalent to US$ 95.7 million in July 1998, due to the depreciation ofthe French
franc against the US dollar). The loan was approved by the Board on August 29, 1995 and
closed on June 30, 1998.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives were to (i) alleviate the impact of the 1994/95 drought through measures
to restore productive capacity in crop and livestock production, improve rural roads and potable
water supply (RWS); and (ii) assist in enhancing institutional capacity for drought management,
hence, mitigating the impact of future droughts through improved preparedness, better rural
infrastructure to allow reaching affected populations and livestock quicker with food, water and
agricultural inputs, and through better management of the natural resources.
4.    At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$ 334 million, with a Bank loan of
US$ 100 million (of which FF 240 million). The project co-financing was foreseen by (i) the
Kuwait Fund (US$ 40 million for rural water supply), (ii) the Arab Fund (US$ 16 million for
roads and US$ 8 million for water). The Government of Morocco and private contributors were
to finance the balance of about US$ 170 million equivalent.



iii
Implementation
5.    The project was implemented respectively by the Moroccan National Seeds Marketing
Company (SONACOS) and the Department of Livestock (DE) within the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAMVA) ( Cereal Seeds component and Livestock and Drought Preparedness components).
The Rural Water Supply component was implemented by the 'Office National de 1' Eau Potable'
(ONEP), and the Rural Roads component by the Department of Roads and Road Transport
(DRCR) within the Ministry of Public Works (MTP).
Achievement of Objectives
6.    General. Project construction activities were completed, 12lrgely ahead of schedule, in the
first two years of the project. About 90 % of the total loan was disbursed during the same period,
reflecting a high commitment and preparedness for this emergency operation by all government
agencies. Disbursements were more than twice as fast as the typical drought recovery project
financed by the Bank.  The third year of the project was dedicated to ensuring project
sustainability and to the design of a long-terrn strategy to improve drought preparedness. The
project is rated highly satisfactory (HS) at completion.
7.    A-riculture. Distribution of cereal seeds and the program of livestock feed distribution,
vaccination and treatment were completed in the first year of the project, as planned. The cereal
seed distribution program combined with plentiful rain, allowed the cereal production to recover
from 1.6 million tons in the 1994/95 crop season to 9.7 million tons in the 1995/96 season
(project objective 5.5 million tons).  Cereal seed imports were not necessary, due to an
exceptional action of subsidy-induced incentives for local seed production (see "Lessons",
below). Appraisal targets included imports of 56,000 tons of barley and wheat seeds. The
project allowed the construction of 286 water points for animals, compared with 150 targeted at
appraisal. The "Livestock Protection and Safeguard Operation" (LPSO) has also reached its
objectives: (i) to maintain the herd at a level allowing quick reconstitution after the drought, (ii)
to stabilize the price and insure a regular supply of animal feeds and livestock products. The
estimated ERR of the livestock component at project completion is about 23 %, compared to 18
% at appraisal.
8.    Water Supplv. At the end of the drought, the Bank and the goverrment agreed to reduce
the drinking water component by about 43 % and to transfer projects reduced under the drought
project to the new countrywide rural water supply and sanitation (RWS) program, PAGER, for
which implementation started in 1995. Within the drought prograrn, about 549 km of pipes were
laid, 190 public fountains built and 23 pumping stations constructed (appraisal comparisons do
not apply, due to the reduction and restructuring of the water supply component). All of the
works were implemented at the time of project closure, and 100 % of all small town systems and
88 % of public fountains are fully operational. This component is serving about 196,000
additional rural people with drinking water and is expected to have a significant health impact,
especially on children and elderly people.



iv
9.    Rural Roads. A total of 1,136 km of existing tracks were up-graded (appraisal target 883
km) and an additional 509 km were rehabilitated (appraisal target 590 km). Total tracks rebuilt
exceed appraisal targets by more than 10 %. All roads under the project were chosen among
those identified earlier by a DRCR study, for which a minimum ERR of 12 % was assured. To
assure sustainability, all roads completed under this project are now classified and benefit from
the Road Maintenance Fund (FSR) for maintenance. While routine maintenance may be taken
care of by the local communities, revenues from the FSR are far from enough to maintain a
growing rural roads network. A continuous dialogue with the government on increasing funding
of the FSR is being carried out by the Bank under its ongoing loan for a roads project (loan 3901-
MOR).
10.  Improving Future Drought Preparedness for Livestock: The project has helped the
Ministry of Agriculture to establish a Livestock Information and Modeling System (SIMEL,
French Acronym). This new concept, to be established in the Livestock Directorate of the
Ministry of Agriculture, has already produced two documents: one to evaluate the availability of
food grains and the other one on zoo-technical parameters. It has also contributed to set up two
permanent field monitoring systems one on rangelands the other on sample farms. It will
contribute to a better organization of the collection and use of informnation in the sector and
therefore make livestock protection more effective in future droughts.
Sustainability
Il.   Overall project sustainability is expected to be good. Implementation and maintenance
capacity of rural roads and water supply were strengthened by the project. This will help
mitigate the impact of droughts in the future. In agriculture, a long-tern strategy for the
handling of livestock under future droughts has been developed with the World Bank's support
(design of Livestock Information and Modeling System, SIMEL). In water supply for small
towns the concept of cost recovery has been fully adopted and accepted by beneficiaries as well
as politicians. Although the emergency nature of the project did not allow sufficient sensitization
and hygiene education of the beneficiaries, a factor impacting on sustainability, ONEP is taking
measures to correct this shortcoming in the context of the ongoing PAGER program. Rural
roads built under the project were classified and are eligible for maintenance resources from the
Rural Maintenance Fund.
Lessons learned
12.   Why were implementation and disbursenments more than twice as fast as in the average
emergency recovery project ?
* First, the World Bank's task team established a panel consisting of experts throughout the
Bank. The panel reviewed project documents and met regularly with the task team to discuss
potential risks and other sectoral issues, based on experiences elsewhere in the Bank,
* Second, the components that required normally lengthy engineering designs - roads and
water supply - were chosen from priority lists for which studies and other documentation
were already available,



v
* Third, the govemrnent was willing to take the risk to pre-finance contracts with its own funds
(20 % retroactive financing),
*  Fourth, the project benefited from a flexible design, where iimplementation and procurement
procedures, as well as other conditionalities, were adapted to the emergency nature of the
operation (e.i. national instead of international bidding procedures),
*  Fifth, ONEP made a special effort in designing and implementing quickly the Drought
Emergency Program. This was possible by the selection of projects located in areas that were
most affected by the drought and for which studies and other documentation were already
available,
*  Last, but perhaps most important, the Ministry of Finance was a close partner in designing
and preparing the project. Finance was also the executing agency and made sure that the
necessary budget was allocated in time, a key element for quick action, one that is often
missing in other projects.
13.   At sectoral level:
i)    Agriculture:
a) Livestock protection: In the short run, "Livestock Protection and Safeguard Operation ": due
to an intense program of tax-exempt imports and distribution of animal feed, quick construction
of water points for animals, as well as enterotoxemia vaccination, anti-parasitic treatment
programs and the provision of vitamins and minerals for small ruminants and local breeding
herds, the national livestock inventory was maintained at levels that allowed a quick
reconstitution of the herds after the drought and the price of animal feed and livestock products
were stabilized and regular market supply was insured. For the long term, this emergency
operation has helped prepare a Livestock Information and Modeling System (SIMEL) as part of a
strategy to mitigate impacts of future droughts. The learning element is that the government
reacted quickly to exempt animal feed imports from taxes and to advance funds for efficient feed
distribution and construction of water points.
b) Cereal Production: Two distinct measures were taken during the 1994-95 harvest campaign
for seed marketing through SONACOS. First, the government increased substantially the prices
for "certified seeds" as an incentive for farmers to deliver their seeds to the official market.
Second, in an exceptional intervention, it created a category "of acceptable seeds" to make up for
the deficit of "certified seeds". These measures not only wiped out the deficit, but allowed to put
15 % more seeds on the market than the average of 65,000 tons per year. The key lesson is that
the Ministry of finance was brought into this emergency operation from the beginning and took
quick measures to make necessary budget resources available to compensate farmers for the
higher seed prices with subsidies.
ii)    Water supplv: The emergency nature of this project did not allow sufficient time for the
necessary sensitization of the beneficiary populations and the public fountain operators to the
benefits of a clean water. As a result, in some cases, especially in the Plaine de Saiss region
(Fes-Meknes area), some 45 public fountains were built but not used, as the subsequent rain
replenished shallow groundwater resources and traditional, ofien polluted wells. Recognizing the



vi
importance of public awareness of the benefits from hygiene and clean water, ONEP has already
taken steps to include drought projects and sensitization programs covered by PAGER. As a
result, 25 public fountains were operating on June 30, 1998. This rate should further increase
during 1998. The lesson learned is that the sustainability of locally operated, community based
systems, is greatly enhanced, if communities are aware of the benefits of drinking water and are
involved from the beginning in planning their water supply system according to their needs and
their willingness to pay. The demand based approach is key to success.
iii)   Rtural roads: During implementation, the Bank and DRCR worked closely together to
assure that all roads built under the project were classified and to establish a system which would
assure quick classification of all roads in the future and, thus, make their maintenance eligible for
financing from the Road Maintenance Fund (FSR). After an initial increase of taxes for road
maintenance, DRCR is now studying the overall funding requirements for maintenance of rural
roads.  The lesson is to make govemment aware of the need to establish a system  for
maintenance of new roads as in the case of Morocco Emergency Drought Project where a priority
classification system allows project roads to become eligible for maintenance funding from a
special road maintenance fund, thereby enhancing their sustainability.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (EDRP)
(Ln. 3935-0, 3935-1-MOR)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The broad objectives were to (i) alleviate the impact of the 1994/95 drought through
measures to restore productive capacity in crop and livestock production and improve rural roads
and rural water supply which, while generating income for the affected populations, will also
strengthen the capacity of the Government of Morocco (GOM) to mitigate the impact of future
droughts; and (ii) assist in enhancing institutional capacity for drought management. The long-
term strategy of the project was to begin the process of reducing the vulnerability of rural
populations to severe drought. This was to be achieved through improved preparedness, better
rural infrastructure to allow reaching affected populations and livestock quicker with food, water
and agricultural inputs and through improved management of natural resources.
2.    At appraisal, the targets of the major project components included:
i)    Agriculture:
a)    Cereal seeds: acquisition of about 70,000 tons of barley and wheat seeds;
b)    Livestock production:
* importation of about 500,000 tons of livestock feed (350,000 tons Bank financed);
* provision of 150 new water points, 10 water tanker trucks and 100 mobile water tanks;
and
* enterotoxomenia vaccination, anti-parasitic treatment and the provision of vitamins and
minerals to the most critical part of the livestock population. About 4 million heads of
sheep and goat have been vaccinated and treated.
ii)    Rural Water Supply:
a) Small and Remote Villages: (DGH component, Kuwait Fundfinancing)
* construction of about 1,850 wells in rural areas,
* drilling of about 650 boreholes,
* rehabilitation of 500 existing springs,
* construction of 170 rain water harvesting points;



2
b) Small Centers and Villages: (ONEP component, World Bankfinancing)
improve water supply in:
*   41 small centers covered by ONEP (construction of 240 equipped wells, deepening of 4
wells, pumping equipment installation on 4 existing wells, drilling and equipment of 16
boreholes, installation of about 71.7 km of new pipelines);
*   about 150 villages by tapping existing overland water pipelines and about 50 others by
drilling new boreholes and wells; and
*   installing additional pipelines to 15 small centers.
iii)    Rural roads:
a)  rehabilitation of 590 km  of rural roads to all-weather standards;
b)  upgrading of 883 km  of existing tracks to low-volume road standards.
iv)     Technical assistance:
a)  strengthening  GOM's agricultural monitoring  system, particularly  in  view  of mitigating
future agricultural and environmental drought impacts;
b)  develop other strategies (rural roads classification, study on long term  funding required for
rural roads maintenance) and actions to be better prepared for future droughts;
c)  strengthening cereal seed production in irrigated areas.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND FINANCING
15.
Total Project Cost                            Bank Loan
(US$ million)                             (USS million)
Appraisal Estimates      Actuai         Original Estimates    Final Disbursements
i) Agriculture                             123                110                  44                    53.7
- (ereals seeds                           28                  -
- Livestock (feed, wvater, veterinary      95                 110                  44                    53.7
services)
ii) Rural Water Supply                    124*                69                   16                     7.0
iii) Rural roads                           85                 68                   40                    35.0
iv) Technical Assistance                   2                   3         ___
Total                                     334                 250                 100                   95.7**
* At the end of the drought and in agreement with the Bank, the govemment reduced the water supply component by about 43 %, which was
transferred to the national rural water supply and sanitation program (PAGER), also launched in ] 995 independently of the Drought Emergency
Programn.
** The final amount disbursed is less than the original US$ 100 million equivalent, due to the depreciation of the French Franc, from FF 4.80
per US$ I.- (appraisal) to an average of FF 5.25 per US$ 1.- (through three-year implementation period).
3.      Actual project financing differed from  appraisal estimates. In addition to the Bank Loan,
the project was co-financed by the Kuwait Fund with US$ 39.1 million for rural water supply



3
(US$ 40 appraisal estimates), the Arab Fund by US$ 16.3 million for roads and US$ 7.3 million
for water (US$ 16 million and US$ 8 million, respectively, appraisal estimates). The Government
of Morocco and private contributors financed the balance of about 91.6 million (US$ 170 million
appraisal estimates).
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    General. While overall project objectives remained unchanged since appraisal, some of
the specific targets were modified in the course of project implementation, notably those for
water supply, since the govermment, in agreement with the Bank, reduced the component at the
end the drought (see below).  Overall project results were highly satisfactory.  Project
construction activities were completed, largely ahead of schedule, in the first two years of the
project. All physical components for rural roads and 99 % of water supply works have been
completed and 95 % of them are operational. The target at appraisal was for 90 % of the water
supply systems to be operational by the Closing Date, June 30, 1998.
5.    About 90 % of the total loan was disbursed during the first two project years, reflecting
the excellent pace of physical construction. Disbursements were more than twice as fast as the
typical drought recovery project financed by the Bank. The third year of the project was
dedicated mainly to sustainability issues, to assure that actions for the operational phase - mainly
for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the project infrastructure - were in place. This has
been achieved for the water supply component. In the case of rural roads, the government is
currently studying ways of increasing resources for both maintenance and investments (para. 16).
Sectoral Achievements:
Agriculture
6.    Genieral. Distribution of cereal seeds and livestock feed was completed in the first year
of the project (as targeted). This timely distribution, combined with plentiful rain allowed the
cereal production to recover from 1.6 million tons in the 1994/95 crop season to 9.7 million tons
in the 1995/96 season, considerably higher than the project objective of 5.5 million tons. The
"Livestock Protection and Safeguard Operation" has also reached its objectives: (i) maintain the
national livestock inventory at a level allowing quick reconstitution after the drought, (ii)
stabilize the price and insure a regular supply of animal feeds and livestock products. The
estimated ERR of the livestock component at project completion is about 23 %, compared to
18% at appraisal. The good result on crops and livestock allowed the agricultural GDP to
increase by more than 50% in 1996.
7.    The Livestock component consisted of short term activities (LPSO) and a long-tern
strategy. The short-term operations included (a) distribution of 275,000 tons of subsidized
mixed animal feed; (b) transport of 88,300 tons of barley, 21,700 tons of mixed animal feed and
5,200 tons of simple fodder; (c) import and distribution for sale on the open market of 476,500



4
tons of barley; (d) tax and duty free import of 526,500 tons oif dehydrated lucerne, dried sugar
beat pulp and bran; (e) construction and equipment of 286 water points for animals, as well as the
purchase of 100 storage tanks and 10 tanker trucks; and (f) enterotomemia vaccination and anti-
parasitic treatment of 4 million heads of sheep and goat; and the provision of vitamins and
minerals.
8.    The program was successfully implemented and, in fact, exceeded targets. Animal feed
imports were considerably higher than targeted, mainly since loan savings from the reduced
water supply component, about US$ 8 million, were realilocated for feed import.  The
construction of water points for livestock also exceeded appraisal targets by almost 100 %. Due
to these measures, the national livestock inventory was maintained at levels that allowed a quick
reconstitution of the herds after the drought.
9.    Long terni strategy. One of the advantages of an emergency operation is the emerging
incentive to work on a long term strategy to be better prepared for future droughts. The project
has helped the Ministry of Agriculture to establish a Livestock Information and Modeling System
(SIMEL, French acronym). This new concept, to be established in the Livestock Directorate of
the Ministry of Agriculture, has already produced two documents: one to evaluate the availability
of food grains and the other one on zoo-technical parameters. It has also contributed to set up
two permanent field monitoring systems one on rangelands the other one on sample farms. It has
contributed to a better organization of the collection and use of information in the sector.
10.   Cereal Production: Two distinct measures (short term and long term) were taken during
the 1994-95 harvest campaign for seed marketing through SONACOS. First, the govermnent
addressed the emergency nature of the drought. It increased substantially the prices for "certified
seeds" as an incentive for farmers to deliver their seeds to the official market. Second, in an
exceptional intervention, it created a category "of acceptable seeds" to make up for the deficit of
4certified seeds". With otherwise a seed stock of only 33,000 tons, these measures have allowed
to put 74,655 tons of cereal seeds on the market, 15 % more than the annual average of 65,000
tons. There was no need to import seeds.
Il.   In addition, to make "certified", as well as "acceptable" seeds accessible for farmers, the
govemment introduced a temporary subsidy to cover the exceptional price increases necessary to
market the seeds. The operation subsidized 47,000 tons of seeds at a cost of DH 56.1 million
(about US$ 6.2 million).
Second, the Government took long-term, strategic measures not directly linked to the
drought preparedness program: these measures concern storage, transport and reclassification of
commercialized "certified" seeds by SONACOS.
12.   Water Supply. At the end of the drought, the Bank and the government agreed to reduce
the drinking water component by about 43 % ( from US$ 16 million to about US$ 9.4 million;
final disbursements were US$ 7 million leading to a reduction totaling 56%). Projects under
reduction were transferred to the new countrywide rural water supply and sanitation program,



5
PAGER. The transfer had the advantage that PAGER requires contributions from communes
and beneficiaries of 20 % of investments, whereas water supply projects financed under the
drought program were 100 % subsidized. The 20 % contribution has already proven feasible and
is justified, as agricultural yields and farmers' revenues have returned to levels before the
drought. Implemented water supply projects had only a 1 % cost overrun which is remarkable,
given the extreme water scarcity ONEP was faced with. Overall, about 196,000 people benefited
from the water supply component at a per capita investment of about US$ 50, an excellent
performance, compared with cost-efficiency ratios in other Moroccan projects and elsewhere in
North Africa.
13.   Under the water supply systems remaining in the drought program, co-financed at about
50 % by the Arab Fund, about 549 km of pipes were laid, 190 public fountains built and 23
pumping stations constructed. All of the projects were implemented in record time, with most of
the works completed well before project closure. All small town systems and 88 % of public
fountains were fully operational by the end of June 1998. This average of 95 % operationality
exceeds the target of 90 % at appraisal. The component is serving about 196,000 additional rural
people with drinking water and is expected to have a significant health impact, especially on
children and elderly people.
14.   Rural Roads. Co-financed by the Bank and the Arab Fund (57% and 22% respectively)
with a 21% government contribution, a total of 1,136 km (821 km with Bank funding, 315 km
with FADES funds) of new roads were built and an additional 509 km (185 km Bank; 324 km
FADES) were rehabilitated. Total roads upgraded and rehabilitated (96 operations, of which 69
Bank funded) exceed the appraisal target by about 12 %. All roads financed by the Bank are
completed (disbursements amounted to 89 % at project closure); 81 % of FADES funded roads
were completed (79.5 % disbursed).
15.   All road projects were chosen among those identified earlier by a DRCR study, for which
a minimum ERR of 12 % was assured. While post-implementation socio-economic analysis was
not carried out for all project financed rural roads, DRCR - in cooperation with the Bank - has
evaluated a sample of rural roads built under the National Program for Rural Roads (NPRR) and
found significant positive socio-economic impacts, including: (i) merchandise transport costs
were halved over a 10 km distance; (ii) the time to markets and social service centers (health
centers and schools) was halved; (iii) the consultation of health centers and delivery of services
by these centers to beneficiaries of new rural roads has doubled; (iv) primary school attendance
has increased from 28% in 1985 to 68% in 1995; and (v) primary school attendance of girls was
54% in 1995, three times the level of 1985.
16.   To assure sustainability, all roads completed under this project are now classified.
Accordingly, they are allocated a budget from a special Rural Roads Maintenance Fund (FSR)
which receives revenues from gasoline taxes. The level of taxes has already been raised to allow
proper funding. However, as the rural roads network grows by an average of 1,300 km per year
maintenance funding will have to be reviewed periodically. Using own funds, the govemment



6
intends to review the system of maintenance, especially of non-paved roads, during the next year.
The study has been launched and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   The severity of the 1994/95 drought which caused the agricultural GDP to decline by
45%, struck the already inherently poor rural population hard. Immediate and well-thought
actions were necessary to mitigate the impact on major lifeline factors of rural people:
agriculture, drinking water and rural roads to make food markets easier accessible and to allow
efficient distribution of animal feed and cereal seeds. In many ways, the sudden crisis was a
blessing in disguise. It triggered a national strategic thinking to prepare for future droughts. This
was largely done in all three areas where the project intervenecl - agriculture, drinking water,
rural roads (see Key Lessons Learned).
18.   The heavy rainfalls in the winter of 1995/96 brought an abrupt end to the drought and
allowed a quick recovery of harvests and replenishment of aquifers and man-made water
reservoirs. In fact, cereal production jumped from 1.6 million tons in the 1994/95 harvest season
to 9.7 million tons, exceeding the average of the preceding five years by almost 100 %. This
fortunate event limited the damage and reduced the cost of the drought operation considerably.
19.   The commitment of all government branches to this emergency operation, especially the
Ministry of Finance, was remarkable.  Needed actions were taken quickly and without
bureaucratic delays. For example, duty and tax exemption was granted for animal feed imports,
prices for cereal seeds were increased as an incentive for farmers to put them on the official
market and, in tum, a large proportion of the seed price increase was compensated by subsidies to
alleviate the burden to the farmer. Total cereal seed subsidies for sales, distribution and
reclassification amounted to about US$ 6.2 million.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   Overall project sustainability is expected to be good. Water supply and rural roads were
strengthened by the project, both in terms of implementation and maintenance capacity. This will
help mitigate the impact of droughts in the future.  With regard to rural roads, though
maintenance capacity has been increased, at present it is not sufficient to maintain a growing
rural roads network. And the government is currently studying ways of increasing resources (para
16).
21.  In agriculture, a long-term strategy for the preparation of the livestock sector to future
droughts has been developed with support from the Bank for the design of SIMEL (see above).
This system will allow DE to (i) get up-to-date information on (climate, agricultural resources,
food resources, productivity and production parameters, prices), (ii) test different intervention
scenarios by estimating projected populations and costs and benefits, (iii) implement and monitor
selected intervention actions. For cereal seeds, the government has adopted measures that can



7
easily and quickly be applied in future droughts: (i) reclassification of seeds that do not meet the
high quality criteria of "certified seeds", into a category of "acceptable seeds", thereby increasing
the seed stock; (ii) exceptional price increases for seeds to create an incentive for the farmers to
market them; and (iii) exceptional subsidies to compensate farmers for higher prices and the cost
of distribution.
22.   In water supply for small towns the concept of cost recovery has been fully adopted and
accepted by beneficiaries as well as politicians. Due to the emergency nature of the project,
sensitization and hygiene education of the beneficiaries was cut short and could affect the
sustainability of public fountains. However, this was recognized, especially during the last year
of project implementation, and ONEP has already taken measures to correct this shortcoming in
the context of the PAGER program.
23.   In the rracl roadls sector, roads built under this project were classified and are eligible for
maintenance resources from the Rural Maintenance Fund (FSR). Despite a recent increase in
gasoline taxes, the resources of this fund may not be sufficient to guarantee adequate
maintenance in the future. Therefore, the DRCR will assess its financial needs for properly
maintaining its roads network.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   The Bank's performance was speedy and highly satisfactory. The project was prepared,
appraised and negotiated in July 1995 in Morocco. It was processed in record speed and
presented to the Board on August 29, 1995. About 90 % of Bank-funded implementation and
disbursements were completed after the second project year. The Bank supervised the project six
times in the three years of implementation. The last supervision and project completion mission
took place in July 1998. The last year of supervision was dedicated mainly to sustainability, to
assist the govemment with designing operating plans, especially for rural roads and water supply
and to a long-term strategy to improve livestock sector's preparedness to future droughts.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The Borrowers performance matched that of the Bank, mainly by its high commitment to
alleviate the crisis and by adopting a flexible implementation approach. The Ministry of Finance
is to be commended for quickly allocating the necessary budget to the different project
components and advancing about 20 %  of the funds (retro-active financing), so that
implementation could begin immediately, well before loan effectiveness. ONEP is to be
commended for its quick and careful implementation of the water supply component. On rural
roads, DRCR was able to present a well-prepared pipeline of roads, thus, avoiding delays
inherent with engineering studies. DRCR was also efficient in implementing their program.
26.   In addition to the US$ 100 million Bank loan, the govemment also sought successfully
co-financing from the Kuwait Fund and from the Arab Fund (Table 8B - Project Financing).



8
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   The overall outcome of the project's different components was excellent in terns of
mitigating the crisis, but also in establishing benchmarks and strategies to face future droughts.
In agriculture, cereal seed imports could be avoided by ingeniously reclassifying lesser-than
"certified" seeds to "acceptable" standards and providing fanners with incentives to put seeds on
the official market. By these measures, total seeds available in 1995, thé peak year of the
drought, exceeded the average seed availability by 15 % and helped doubling the five-year
average yield of cereal harvests in 1996, the first year after the d[rought. Livestock herds were
maintained at levels that allowed quick reconstitution afier the drought, by intensive animal feed
imports and distribution (about half of the Bank loan was allocatecl to imports of animal feed), as
well as vaccination and treatment of ruminants, provision of vitamins and minerals and
construction of water points throughout the country. The good results on crops and livestock
allowed the agricultural GDP to increase by 50 % in 1996.
28.   Water supply and rural roads programs were selected from lists of priority projects, for
which feasibility studies were prepared in advance. Cost recovery for O&M in water supplv
schemes was an accepted principle from the beginning. But community participation, which is
crucial for sustainability and ideally starts well in advance of implementation, was weak. The
emergency situation did not allow the time for this lengthy process. Fully aware of the
shortcoming, ONEP has already taken steps to include drought projects in sensitization programs
covered by PAGER. The classification of rural roads which provide access to O&M. Today all
of the roads built with Bank funding are classified and eligible for support from the Special
Roads Maintenance Fund, and DRCR has initiated a study to review the system of maintenance
(para 16).
I., FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   Inherently, emergency operations are rarely planned.  Therefore, future emergency
operations are not foreseen. But the government will be better prepared to deal with them, if and
when they occur. Agricultural projects continue to constitute the bulk of Bank lending. Since
approval of this emergency operation, the Bank has approved 1 Bank loans for Water Resources
Management project [Loan 4289-MOR, signed in 1998] in the agriculture sector for Morocco.
At present 5 projects are in the pipeline. The livestock monitoring and modeling system, SIMEL,
will allow to spot and address weaknesses and irregularities of the sub-sector, in time to take
alleviating measures. The successful handling of the cereal seed shortage will be a lesson for
fuiture emergencies.
30.   Rural water supply is covered by the nationwide PAGER which is also supported by a
Bank loan (Report 17005 MOR [Loan4254-MOR signed on October 5,1998] - US$ 10 million),
with parallel financing by the German Development Bank (KfW) (about US$ 10 million), the
French Development Agency (AFD) (US$ 15 million) and the Japanese Development Agency
(OECF) (US$ 10 million). A local contribution (local government and beneficiaries) of US$ 12



9
million is also expected. The funding from this consortium (US$ 57 million) is the first phase of
a US$ 120 million program - which itself is but a slice out of a 12 to 15 year national program
that could cost as much as US$ 1 billion. The European Union is also a significant contributor
to PAGER, along with such donors, as Luxembourg, Belgium and UNICEF. UNDP and FAO are
contributing technical assistance to the program.
31.   For the success of this program, it will be important that the Government takes serious
steps to assure proper funding, not only from outside, but especially from its own budget. Initial
measures, such as the special PAGER tax on bulk water sales, have recently been ratified. But
other resources from the national budget and local communities need to be allocated as a
prerequisite for a PAGER donors' conference.
32.   No special rural roads operation is currently planned. Rural roads are sometimes
included in other agricultural projects. However, with the government's intention to accelerate
the current pace, another Bank operation, perhaps in the form of a rural infrastructure or a
speci fic rural roads project may be considered.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   Why were inmplemnentation and disbursements more than twice as fast as in the average
emiergency recovery project ?
•  First, the task team established a panel consisting of experts throughout the Bank. The panel
reviewed project documents and met regularly with the task team to discuss potential risks
and other sectoral issues, based on experiences elsewhere in the Baank.
,  Second, the components that required normally lengthy engineering designs - roads and
water supply - were chosen from priority lists for which studies and other documentation was
already available.
-  Third, the government was willing to take the risk to pre-finance contracts with its own
*  funds (20 % retroactive financing).
*  Fourth, the project benefited from a flexible design, where implementation and procurement
procedures, as well as other conditionalities, were adapted to the emergency nature of the
operation (i.e. national instead of international bidding process).
*  Fifth, the executing agencies, in particular the Livestock Department and SONACOS within
the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as ONEP and DRCR with the Ministry of Public Work
reacted quickly and efficiently to concentrate their efforts on the National Emergency
Drought Recovery Program.
*  Sixth, and perhaps most important, the Ministry of Finance was a close partner in designing
and preparing the project. Finance was also the executing agency and made sure that the
necessary budget was allocated in time, a key element for quick action, one that is often
missing in other projects.



10
34.   On the sectoral level, especially in terms of sustainability, the project has helped the
govenmment, as well as the Bank to identify key issues early on, so that they could be corrected
either in the course of the project or later on, for example in the context of the ongoing PAGER.
i)    Agriculture:
a) Livestock protection: In the Short run, due to an intense program of tax-exempt imports and
distribution of subsidized animal feed, quick construction of water points for animals, as well as
enterotoxemia vaccination and anti-parasitic treatment for small ruminants, livestock was
maintained at levels that allowed a quick reconstitution of the herds after the drought. For the
long term, this emergency operation has helped prepare a strategy to mitigate impacts of future
droughts.  Technical assistance funded under the Bank loan has helped the Ministry of
Agriculture to establish a Livestock Information and Modeling System (SIMEL, French
acronym). This new concept, to be established in the Livestock Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture, has already produced two documents: one to evaluate the availability of food grains
and the other on zoo-technical parameters. It has also contributed to set up two permanent field
monitoring systems one on rangelands, the other on sample farms. It has contributed to a better
collection and use of information in the sector. The learning element is that the government
reacted quickly to exempt feed grain imports from taxes and to advance funds to take the
necessary measures for setting up an efficient animal feed distribution system, build water points
and acted fast to establish a strategy to address future drought situations.
b) Cereal Production: Two distinct measures were taken during the 1994-95 harvest campaign
for seed marketing through SONACOS. First, the govenmment addressed the emergency nature
of the drought. It increased substantially the prices for "certified seeds" as an incentive for
farners to deliver their seeds to the official market. Second, in an exceptional intervention, it
created a category "of acceptable seeds" to make up for the deficit of "certified seeds". With a
stock of only 33,000 tons of "certified seeds", these measures have allowed to put a stock of
74,655 tons of seeds on the market, 15 % more than the annual average of 65,000 tons. There
was no need to import seeds.
In addition, to making "certified", as well as "acceptable" seeds accessible to farmers, the
government introduced a temporary subsidy to cover the exceptional price increases necessary to
market the seeds. The operation subsidized 47,000 tons of seeds at a cost of DH 56.1 million
(about US$ 6.2 million). Again, the key lesson is that the Ministry of Finance was brought into
this emergency operation from the beginning and took quick measures to make necessary budget
resources available.
ii)    Water supplv: ONEP, an agency basically responsible for water supply of medium towns,
has had limited experience with the social preparation needs to implement water supply schemes
in small towns or rural areas. In addition, the emergency nature of this project did not allow
sufficient time for the necessary sensitization of the beneficiairy populations and the public
fountain operators ('gardien gérants') to the benefits of a clean water.



il
Hence, in several cases, especially in the Plaine de Saiss (Fes-Meknes area), where
groundwater is usually shallow, the public, fountains did not become operational or were
abandonned as soon as the rains resumed. Water tables and old wells were replenished, albeit
with often polluted water. The lesson learned is that the sustainability of locally operated,
community based systems, can be greatly enhanced, if communities are aware of the benefits of
drinking water and are involved from the beginning in planning their water supply system,
according to their needs and their willingness to pay. The demand based approach is key to
success.
ONEP is also involved in the PAGER program and has started introducing community
awareness and participation methods into the completed drought operation.  Such public
campaigns "after the fact", when water installations are already built, are much less effective,
than if they precede construction work. However, out of the about 45 public fountains in the
Plaine de Saiss, virtually none of which were operational in November 1997, ONEP's intense
public awareness campaign has already succeeded in making more than half of these public water
points operational. The number of functioning water points may still increase, but it is expected
that some may have to wait for the next drought to become operational.
iii)   Rural roads:  Traditionally, rural roads were often built or rehabilitated, but not
classified. Unclassified roads have no access to maintenance funds and, thus, deteriorate fast,
wasting large sums of capital resources. During implementation, the Bank and DRCR worked
closely together to assure that all roads built under the project were classified and to establish a
system which would assure quick classification in the future. In addition, a road maintenance tax
increase (levied on gasoline prices) has already taken place. DRCR is also carrying out a study to
determine what the projected rural maintenance needs will be and to assure that sufficient
funding will be available for the stepped up rural roads program in the future.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLES
1.    Summary of Assessments
2.    Related Bank Loans/Credit
3.    Project Timetable
4.    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ millions)
5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6.    Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.    Studies Included in Project
8A.  Project Costs
8B.   Project Financing
9.    Economic Costs and Benefits
10.   Status of Legal Covenants
Il.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Input
13.   Bank Resources: Missions



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives           Substantial     Partial     Neyligibie   NotApplicable
Macro policies                          L                                        II 
Sector policies                         W             W            D              W
Financial objectives                    W             W             W             W
Institutional development              W             W              W             W
Physical objectives                                   W             W             W
Poverty reduction                       W             W             W             W
Gender issues                           W           o             LI   :
Other social objectives                 W           [              E              1
Environmental objectives                W            W              W             W
Public sector management                W             W             W             W
Private sector development              W             W             W             W
Other (specify)                         W             W             W             O
B. Proiect sustainabilitv'             Likelv        Unlikely     Uncertain
Hl2hlv
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
Identification                     In            é3            [3
Preparation assistance             E              E              W
Appraisal2                         E                             W
Supervision                                        W             W
Emergency relief operations excluded.
2 As an emergency operation, preparation and appraisal were merged.



14
Highi-y
D. Borrower performance                   satisfactorv    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                          [                 3g
Implementation                       [                               W
Covenant compliance                    [S                            W
Operation (if applicable)            [                               W
Highly                                            Highl
E. Assessment of outcome1              satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Jnsatisfactory    unsatisfactorv
21   é1   ' 1t3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                        Year of      Status
approval
Water Resources Management
1. Water Resources     Support the establishment of an institutional framework for    1998    On going
Management Project     integrated water resources management, improve the
capacity in water resources planning and management,
(Ln 4289-MOR)           improve water use efficiency, introduce water pollution
control measures
Water Supply and Sanitation
2. Fifth Water Supply   Assist the Government in developing a long term policy on    1994    On going
Project (Ln.3664-3665-   institution-building and cost-recovery of water services;
MOR)                    improve water services in urban and rural areas, in
particular through the rehabilitation of existing facilities.
3. Rural Water Supply    Improve the access of rural populations to safe potable    1997    On going
and Sanitation Project  water and support implementation of Government of
(First Phase of PAGER)   Morocco' master plan program for the supply of water to
(Ln. 4254 -MOR)         rural populations (PAGER)
Forestiy
4. Forestry II          To support environmentally sound management and    1990    Closed
development of Morocco's forest resources and to prepare
(Ln31I 56-MOR)          and test components for a national watershed mnanagement
program aimed at addressing soil erosion.
Rural Credit
5. National Rural Finance  To assist Morocco in promoting private investment in rural    1994    On-going
areas and in developing sustainable foundations of a
(Ln 3662-MOR)           financially sound rural finance system well integrated into a
gradually liberalised financial system.
lIrigation
6. Second Large Scale    Second phase in the nation-wide process to increase    1993    On-going
Irrigation project      efficiency, cost effectiveness and sustainability of the LSI
(Ln- 3587-MOR)          subsector.
Roads
8. Secondary, Tertiary  Construction, up-grading and rehabilitation of rural roads,    1995    On-going
and Rural Roads project   improve network management and renewal of essential
(Ln 3901-MOR)           road maintenance equipment, streamlining the road safety
organisation and supporting priority actions.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned                Date actual/
.___________________=     latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sunimary)           June 1995               June 1995
Preparation & Appraisal (Emergency Operation)         June-July 1995          June-July 1995
Negotiations                                          July 1995               July 20, 1995
Board presentation                                    August, 1995            August 29, 1995
Signing                                               September, 1995         August 30, 1995
Effectiveness                                         November 28, 1995       October 6, 1995
Loan closing                                          June 30, 1998           June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative EDstimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96             FY97           FY98
Appraisal estiniate                45.0            80.0            100
Actual                             82.8          90.86            95.71*
Actual as % of estimate           184%            114%             96%
Date of final disbursement    June 25, 1998
* The loan has been fully disbursed. The final amount disbursed is less than the original US$ 100 million cquivalent. duc Io the depreciation of
the French Franc, from FF 4.80 per US$ I (appraisal) to an average of FF 5.25 per US$ 1.- (through threc-ycar iniplementation period).



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/
President's Report                                Estimated                  Actual
Livestock feed inports                                I million tons         1.003 rillion tons
Seed availability                              _                         __              _
From stock                                           14,000 tons            33,000 tons
New purchase                                         56,000 tons            47,000 tons
Total                                                70,000 tons            80,000 tons
Seed distribution                                        70,000 tons            76,000 tons
Number of water supply systems built / equipped*  ________
Srnall centers equipped with wells                   41                       NA
Villages equipped with tappig overland pipelines    150                       NA
Smnall centers connected with pipelines              15                       NA
Rural roads iniprovement                                  1,500 kml           1,650 km
* Appraisal estimates and actual achievements cannot be compared due to the reduction and restructuring of the
water supply component. At the end of the drought, and mi agreement with the Bank, the govenmnent reduced the water
supply component by about 43%. The projects under the reduction were transferred to the national rural water supply
and sanitation program (PAGER). PAGER was also launched in 1995, independently of the Drought Emergency
Program.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                          Estimnated                                 Actual
Not Applicable                             Not Applicable                           Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined3                    Status                   Impact of study
Livestock preparedness              Improve drought                    Achieved              Good impact expected
strategy                preparedness for future
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local        Foreign           Total              Local           Foreign             Total
Costs          costs                              Costs             costs
Livestock and                 40.4             82.8         123.2                 36                74            110
Seeds
Water Supply                  65.6             58.6        124.2*                 36                33             69
Rural Roads                   42.2             42.2         84.4                  34                34             68
TA                              1.0              1.0         2.0                    1.5               1.5          3
TOTAL                      149.2            184.6    333.8                      107.5            142.5    250**
* At the end of the drought and in agreenient with the 13ank, the governnient reduced the wat.er supply component by about 43 %, which was
transferred to the national rural water supply and sanitation program (PAG(iR). whieh was also launched in 1995, independently of the Drought
Emergency Program.
** The final cost is less than the original USS333.8 million equivalent, due to the depreciation of the French Franc, FF 4.80 per US$ 1.-
(appraisal) to an average of FF 5.25 per US$ I.- (through thrce-year implerneitation period).
Redetined at mid-tern review; replaced infrastructure studies previously speciiied in the MOP.



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign    Total             Local        Foreign         Total
costs       Costs                       costs         Costs
Source
IBRD                             35           65         100               33.5          62.2        95.7*
Arab Fund**                     NA          NA            24              NA            NA           23.6
Kuwait Fund**                   NA          NA            40              NA            NA           39.1
GOM &Beneficiaries**   NA                   NA           170              NA            NA           91.6
TOTAL                           149         185          334              107           143        250
* The final amount disbursed is less than the original US$ 100 million equivalent, due to the depreciation of the French Franc, from FF 4.80 per
US$ I.- (appraisal) to an average of FF 5.25 per US$ 1.- (through three-year implementation period).
B* Rreakdown of local vs. foreign costs by co-financers is not available.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
ERR has only been calculated on the livestock component. ERR at project completion was 23% compared
to 18% at appraisal.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
MOROCCO
Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Original   Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfilment date  fulfilment   Description of
Agreement  Section   type    status                 date       Covenant        Comments
L39350     3.01    4        C                     -         Provide adequate   OK
funds.
3.02    10       C       -             -        Procurement as    OK
specified.
3.03    5        C       12/31/98      -        Fumish plan for    OK
future operation.
4.01    I        C       6/30/98       -         Fumish Audit    OK
Report.
Covenant class:
1  Account/audit
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3  Flow and utilisation of project funds
4  Counterpart funding
5  Management Aspects of the project or of its existing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8  Indigenous people
9  Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
Il Sectoral or cross- sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 other
C  = Complied with
CD = Compliance after delay
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and conmment on lack of compliance
There was compliance with the applicable Bank
Operational Manual Statement.



21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                  Planned                          Revised                          Actual'
project cycle                                                                                                                  l
Weeks             US$             Weeks             US$           Weeks            US$
Preparation                        NA                NA               NA               NA             48.2          172,935
/Appraisal/Board
Approval
Supervision                         43            155,544             35.9          121,396          46.51         146,325
Completion                           6             25,800              13            48,172            8*           37,440
TOTAL                               -                -                -                -           102.71        356,700
1/ Includes travel costs.
* estimates
NIA = Not available -- not recorded in the FACT System
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                        Number           .       Specialised    Implementatio      Develop-
Project cycle         Monthi         of       Days eldl    staff skills         n              ment          Types of
Year     persons                 represented         Status        objectives       problems
Through Appraisai /1
Appraisal through     _-                              - 
Board approval /1
1. Supervision         October 1995       4         43.4     OP,lr,lle,Rr           HS              HS
2. Supervision          March, 1996        3         100     OP,Li,lr               HS              HS
3. Supervision          Oct-Nov.           3         32      Ws,Rr,OP               HS              HS
1996
4. Supervision          May, 1997          2         18      Ws, Ol'                HS              HS               -
4. Supervision          March, 1998        3         31      Ws, Ol', SL            HS              HS               -
Completion              July, 1998         4         40      Ws, 'I-TL, I,. Rr      HS              HS               -
/i EmergencyOperation.
Abbreviations:
Ws = Water specialist
Li = Livestock Specialist
Ir= Irrigation specialist
Be = Highway Engineer
Rr = Rural Roads Consultant
SL = Sector Leader
TTL = Task Team Leader
Li = Livestock Specialist
OP= Operations Officer



22
MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY P'ROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE



ROYAUME DU MAROC
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES EFFETS DE LA SECHERESSE
(Prêt 3935-MOR)
Mission de Conclusion du Projet
Juillet 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission composée de Messieurs Sinha, Koenig, Le Gall et Rolandin s'est
rendue au Maroc en Juillet 1998. Le but principal de cette mission était une revue
approfondie des réalisations du projet de Lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse et de la
mise en oeuvre d'une stratégie opérationnelle visant à assurer la durabilité des effets du
projet. Par ailleurs, la mission a assuré le suivi de la mission de concertation du projet
d'Approvisionnement en eau potable et assainissement en milieu rural (PAGER) du mois
de mars 1998. Les points importants qui ont été soulevés concernant ce dernier projet
sont décrits dans l'Annexe 1.
2.    La mission s'est rendue notamment dans les régions d'Ouarzazate, Taroudannt,
Chtouka, BenSlimane, Saiss - Meknes, Cherkaoua, Tnine des Oudaya, et Smimou.
L'annexe 2 présente les résultats de ces visites.  La mission tient à remercier les
responsables, cadres et agents du Ministère délégué auprès du Premier Ministre chargé
des Affaires générales du Gouvernement, du Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
(MEF), du Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et de la Pêche, du
Ministère de l'Equipement, de la Direction des Routes et de la Circulation Routière
(DRCR), de l'Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), et de la Direction de
l'Hydraulique (DGH), et tout spécialement les différents agents sur le terrain qui ont
consacré leurs jours fériés (7 au 9 juillet 1998) à la mission.
Contexte du Projet de Lutte contre les Effets de la Sécheresse
3.    En 1994/95 une des plus graves sécheresses du siècle a frappé le Maroc. Les
effets ont été dévastateurs, notamment dans le secteur agricole et l'impact en milieu rural
a été particulièrement sévère.  Le PIB agricole, qui avait déjà été affecté par les
sécheresses du début des années 1990, a chuté de 45 % en 1995. Les secteurs de
l'élevage et de la production céréalière ont été les plus durement touchés. Ainsi en 1995
la récolte céréalière n'a représenté que 17 % de celle de l'année précédente, soit 1,6
million de tonnes, contre 9,4 millions de tonnes en 1994. La sécheresse a également eu
des impacts négatifs sur la production des aliments pour bétail. L'absence de pluies a
aussi affecté les nappes phréatiques et a considérablement réduit la disponibilité d'eau
pour la consommation de la population rurale et des animaux. Ceci s'est reflété par une
baisse énorme de l'emploi rural agricole et, par conséquence, par une chute des revenus
de la population rurale en général.



4.    En 1995, le Gouvernement marocain et la Banque rmondiale (BM) se sont mis
d'accord sur le financement d'une partie du programme public d'urgence contre la
sécheresse. En juillet 1995, une mission de la BM s'est rendue au Maroc pour préparer,
évaluer et négocier un projet de 334 millions de $EU, avec un prêt de la Banque de
100 millions de $EU.
5.    Ce projet comprend les composantes suivantes (en millions de $EU):
i)    Agriculture                             $ EU 161
ii)    Approvisionnement en eau potable       $ EU  89
iii)   Pistes rurales                         $ EU  84
Total                                  $EU 334
5.    Un résumé des résultats du projet et des actions prises pour assurer la durabilité
des ouvrages est présenté ci-dessous.  Les rapports de conclusions détaillés des
composantes agricole et pistes rurales se trouvent aux annexes 3 et 4 (Annexe 3 -
Composante Agricole ; Annexe 4 - Composante Pistes Rurales). La composante AEP est
décrite de façon plus détaillée ci-dessous.  Le décompte financier et les différentes
activités, ainsi qu'un compte-rendu de la dernière visite sur le terrain, se trouvent en
Annexe 2.
RESUME ET ACHEVEMENTS DU PROJET
I.    Composante a2ricole
Elevaae
6.    La composante élevage du projet consistait en deux programmes, un programme à
court terme, l'opération de sauvegarde et de protection du cheptel et un programme à long
terne de préparation du secteur de l'élevage à la sécheresse.
7.    L'opération de sauvegarde et de protection dui cheptel en réponse à la
sécheresse de 1995 a concerné les activités suivantes: distribution d'aliments composés
subventionnés, transport des aliments pour bétail, importation et distribution d'orge à
guichet ouvert, importation libre des aliments pour bétail en exonération de taxes et de
droits de douane, création, aménagement d'équipement de points d'eau et acquisition de
citernes et de camions citernes, traitements antiparasitaires et vaccinations anti-
entérotoxémiques des petits ruminants. L'évaluation technique de l'impact de l'opération
de sauvegarde et de protection du cheptel a conclu que cette composante avait atteint ses
objectifs: le cheptel de base a été maintenu à un niveau permettant une reconstitution
rapide des effectifs après la sécheresse, et les prix des aliments pour bétail et des produits
de l'élevage ont été stabilisés, assurant ainsi l'approvisionnement régulier du marché.
Les résultats de l'analyse économique viennent renforcer l'analyse technique: le taux de
rentabilité interne étant de 22,7 pour cent.



8.    Stratégie à long terme. Un des atouts du projet est qu'il a su profiter d'une
opération d'urgence, nécessairement imparfaite dans sa conception, pour initier un travail
de fond sur la stratégie à long terme à adopter face aux sécheresses futures. L'instrument
central du dispositif en place est le Système d'Information et de Modélisation de
l'Elevage (SIMEL). Il s'agit d'un concept novateur, qui, s'il n'est pas encore finalisé à
l'achèvement du projet, a déjà permis à la Direction de l'Elevage (DE) d'affiner son
système d'information sur le secteur, la production de deux documents de référence sur
l'évaluation du disponible alimentaire et les paramètres zootechniques, et la mise en place
de deux systèmes complémentaires de suivi permanent sur le terrain: le suivi des
parcours et le suivi des exploitations de référence. Une note stratégique synthétique de
préparation du secteur de l'élevage à la sécheresse sera communiquée prochainement à la
Banque pour avis.  Il est clair qu'au delà de cette préoccupation essentielle de la
préparation à la sécheresse, l'outil proposé permettra d'autres réflexions et sera donc de
manière plus générale un outil de suivi, d'aide à la formulation de politique et d'aide à la
gestion du secteur. C'est là une retombée très positive du projet.
Semences céréalières
9.    Les mesures prises pour la campagne 1994-95 sont de deux ordres. Il s'agit tout
d'abord des mesures conjoncturelles, initiatives directement rattachées au programme
d'urgence contre la sécheresse: elles ont porté sur la collecte et l'utilisation des semences
céréalières certifiées et "bonnes à semer". Il s'agit, par ailleurs, de mesures structurelles,
stratégiques, qui sont venues accompagner les mesures conjoncturelles, mais qui ne sont
pas directement rattachables au programme de lutte contre la sécheresse: elles portent sur
le stockage, le transport et le reclassement des semences céréalières certifiées
commercialisées par la SONACOS.
10.   Collecte des semences céréalières. Compte tenu du faible niveau de production
des semences céréalières au cours de la campagne 1994-95 et afin de garantir que le
march soit normalement approvisionné en cet intrant pour la campagne suivante 1995-96,
les mesures suivantes ont été prises: (i) augmentation substantielle et exceptionnelle des
prix à la production des semences certifiées afin d'inciter les multiplicateurs à livrer leurs
semences dans le circuit officiel ; (ii) intervention exceptionnelle sur le "bon à semer" à
travers la SONACOS dans le but de combler le déficit en semences certifiées. Ces
mesures ont permis, en tenant compte d'un stock de 33.000 tonnes, la mise sur le marché
d'une quantité d'environ 74.655 tonnes, volume dépassant de 15 % les ventes moyennes
de 65.000 tonnes. Il n'a pas fallu recourir à l'importation de semences.
11.   Utilisation des semences céréalières. Par ailleurs et afin de ramener le prix de
vente des semences céréalières certifiées et du "bon à semer" à des niveaux accessibles
aux agriculteurs dont la trésorerie a été fortement affectée, une subvention à l'utilisation a
été allouée (i) aux semences certifiées, de valeur égale aux augmentations des prix à la
production, et (ii) aux semences "bonnes à semer". Au total les ventes ont concerné
71.400 tonnes de semences céréalières, dont 47.800 tonnes subventionnées. Le coût total
de l'opération s'élève à 56,1 millions de DH. La campagne céréalière 1995-96 a ainsi pu



bénéficier de l'excellente pluviométrie enregistrée cette année-là avec une production de
9,7 millions de tonnes (contre 4,9 millions de tonnes en moyenne sur les cinq années
précédentes).
II.   Approvisionnement en eau potable (AEP)
12.   Le lancement du projet "Sécheresse", qualifié de mesure d'urgence, a coincidé
avec le démarrage du Programme Approvisionnement Groupé en Eau Potable (PAGER)
des populations rurales. Le PAGER est un programme enclenché, lui aussi en 1995, suite
aux recommandations du Schém-a Directeur National d'Alimentation en Eau Potable du
milieu rural, commencé en 1990 et achevé en 1994.
13.   La composante AEP du projet "Sécheresse" a bénéficié d'une solidarité nationale
importante ("Opération Solidarité Sécheresse", compte 111) qui a également profité
d'une contribution de plusieurs bailleurs de fonds, notamrnent de la BM, du Fonds
Koweitien (FKDEA) et du Fonds Arabe (FADES). La partie BM a été réalisée par
l'Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP).  En outre, la Direction Générale de
l'Hydraulique (DGH) du Ministère de l'Equipement, a construit des puits et ouvrages
d'AEP simples en milieu rural à l'aide des fonds FKDEA et FADES. Le Fonds de
Développement Rural (FDR) a également affecté des fonds à la composante AET rurale.
Pro2ramme "Sécheresse" ONEP
14.   Coût et Financement. Au moment de la préparation du projet, en mai 1995, le
coût total du programme ONEP, à financer par le compte 111, était chiffré à
342,5 millions de DH, réparti comme suit:
- BM                                        DH 136,0 millions
- FADES                                     DH  82,5 millions*
- Etat (Loi de Finance, affectation Hydraulique)    DH 124,0 millions
- FDR (Etat)                                DH  50I 0 millions
Total                                 DH 342,5 millions
* Le FADES a également financé l'équipement d'alimentation en eau potable de la ville de Tanger par bateaux citemes,
correspondant à un montant de 56 millions de DH.
15.   A la fin de la sécheresse, le Gouvernement et la BM se sont mis d'accord pour
ramener le programme AEP à 195 millions de DH (FDR, 50 millions de DH; compte
111, 145 millions de DH, dont environ 80 millions de DH du prêt BM), ce qui constitue
la Phase 1 du programme AEP. Le reliquat de 147,5 millions de DH a été transféré au
programme PAGER (voir ci-dessus). Ceci a eu l'avantage d'engager la participation
locale (usagers et communes à concurrence de 20 %), lorsque les récoltes agricoles - et
les revenus - sont revenus au niveau d'avant la sécheresse.
16.   Le programme, consistant en (i) la pose de 549 km  de conduites ; (ii) la
construction de 190 Bornes Fontaines (BF) (taux de fonctionnement de 88 %); et (iii) la



réalisation de 23 stations de pompage et stations de reprise, a été réalisé dans un temps
record. La mission tient à féliciter tout particulièrement l'ONEP pour son engagement,
son excellente collaboration et le succès général atteint dans le cadre de cette composante.
Un décompte détaillé des activités ONEP au 30 juin 1998 se trouve en Annexe 2.
17.   Bénéfices. Le programme, réalisé avec un léger dépassement de coût de moins de
1 %, a non seulement allégé le sort de la population rurale dans une situation très difficile
de carence de l'eau, mais il a également eu un impact estimé considérable sur la santé de
la population, notamment les enfants et les personnes âgées. Le projet a approvisionné
environ 140.000 habitants en eau potable. En plus, il a aidé à mieux préparer la
population et le Gouvernement aux futures sécheresses, malheureusement trop
récurrentes.
18.   Leçons et vision pour le futur. Au cours de la dernière année de réalisation, les
missions de concertation se sont surtout penchées sur la stratégie opérationnelle de
l'ONEP, et la durabilité des ouvrages. Ce qui ressort comme étant les points les plus
importants sont (i) la sensibilisation des populations et des autorités et la nécessité d'une
approche de réponse à la demande réelle ; et (ii) le besoin essentiel d'une composante
assainissement, afin d'optimiser les bénéfices de santé.
i)    Sensibilisation et réponse à la demande: Sans une sensibilisation préalable des
populations aux bénéfices d'une eau potable et leur participation à l'ouvrage depuis les
premières études jusqu'à la gestion ultérieure du système AEP, il y a de fortes chances
que le projet ne soit pas durable. Si les villageois sont consultés et qu'ils expriment leurs
besoins et priorités pour l'eau potable, ils se sentent propriétaires de leur futur système
AEP et, en fait, prennent en charge la gestion et l'entretien des ouvrages. Le projet
"Sécheresse", de par son caractère d'urgence, ne disposait pas du temps nécessaire pour
mener une campagne complète de sensibilisation. En conséquence certaines BF ne sont
pas du tout utilisées (notamment dans la Pleine du Saiss). Au cours de la dernière année,
les missions de concertation se sont axées sur la stratégie opérationnelle de l'ONEP, la
durabilité des ouvrages où la consommation moyenne varie entre 5 et 12 litres par
habitant par jour (Ihj), dépendant de la saison, et l'état sanitaire autour de la BF qui laisse
parfois à désirer et qui réduit les bénéfices de santé. Grâce aux efforts de l'ONEP, la
situation s'est améliorée et le nombre de BF sans gardien est passé à moins de 12 %
contre 25 % l'année dernière. La mission recommande de poursuivre ces efforts au cours
de la phase opérationnelle.
ii)    Assainissement : L'eau potable n'est qu'un des éléments contribuant à une
meilleure santé et à un bien-être général amélioré. Le facteur assainissement, aussi bien
en termes d'éducation, d'hygiène et de santé, que d'installations physiques pour
l'évacuation sanitaire de l'excréta et des eaux usées, est essentiel pour optimiser les
bénéfices de santé. Cette promotion sanitaire doit aller de pair avec les efforts de
sensibilisation, pour que les gens comprennent la relation entre les maladies hydriques, la
consommation d'eau potable et l'hygiène de l'habitat et du milieu. Comme il s'agissait



d'un projet d'urgence, l'ONEP n'a pu prendre toutes les mnesures nécessaires à une
composante assainissement complète.
19.   L'ONEP est consciente des aspects liés à la sensibilisation et à l'assainissement.
Elle a déjà initié plusieurs activités de sensibilisation et incorporera les actions suivantes
dans le programme opérationnel des réalisations "Sécheresse" et dans le programme
PAGER:
i)    Etude d'impact sur la santé. D'ici un an, l'ONEP lancera une étude d'impact sur
la santé du projet "Sécheresse". Cette étude permettra de mieux analyser les aspects d'un
projet AEP et assainissement contribuant à améliorer la santé. Les leçons de cette étude
pourront être incorporées à d'autres programmes d'AEP rurale, notamment le PAGER.
ii)    Prix de l'eau à la BF. L'ONEP entreprendra une étude sur le prix de revient réel
(coût marginal) de l'eau à la BF, soit à partir d'un "piquage", soit à partir d'un forage.
L'étude permettra de rééxaminer le prix de l'eau à la BF, en vue d'accroître la
consommation d'eau potable par les populations qui n'ont pas accès aux branchements
individuels.
iii)   Coût du branchement particulier. L'ONEP réévaluera le critère d'application du
mètre linéaire de la façade de la propriété dans des quartiers limitrophes d'un centre
urbain, ou d'un petit centre urbain de caractère rural pour la détermination du coût du
branchement individuel. A présent ce coût est en général considérablement plus élevé
qu'en milieu urbain, ce qui décourage le branchement.
iv)   Rendement des réseaux de distribution dans des petits centres.  Malgré des
extensions ou nouvelles installations de réseaux dans des petits centres, les rendements
des réseaux varient largement pour de multiples raisons. Par exemple, l'extension d'un
réseau est raccordée à un ancien réseau vétuste comportant des fuites ; ou la pression
augmente avec un nouveau réservoir surélevé, ce qui cause dles fuites supplémentaires
dans l'ancien système ; ou la lecture des compteurs est irrégulière et inexacte. L'ONEP
veillera à ce que ses bureaux régionaux et provinciaux suivent ce problème de près
(exemples : Kelâa M'Gouna - 76 %; Oulad Berhil - 68 %; Srnimou - 73,7 % en 1997)
afin d'améliorer les rendements des réseaux.
20.   Par ailleurs, l'ONEP envisage de lancer différents moyens de marketing de l'eau à
la BF, comme par exemple une "Journée BF", avec une campagne de sensibilisation au
cours de laquelle l'eau sera distribuée gratuitement. Cette campagne devrait commencer
prochainement (pendant la saison sèche) dans la Pleine du Saiss afin de relever le taux de
fonctionnement des BF. Dans ce contexte, l'ONEP a également lancé un programme de
formation et de sensibilisation des bureaux d'étude locaux.
21.   Dans le but de mieux capter l'intérêt du monde rural sur l'eau de la BF et
d'améliorer son entretien et hygiène, l'ONEP examine à présent le système de gestion de
la BF, ainsi que, le cas échéant, la sélection du Gardien Gérant (GG). Depuis quelques



mois, l'ONEP cherche à promouvoir la femme comme GG, car en tant que gestionnaire
de l'eau du ménage, elle est sensée être plus consciente de la valeur de l'eau et des
aspects liés à l'assainissement. On compte actuellement une ou deux Gardiennes
Gérantes. Tous les GG reçoivent une formation en matière d'hygiène, ainsi que sur les
aspects liés à la vente de l'eau et à l'entretien de la BF.
Programme AEP Sécheresse mené par la DGH
22.   Les opérations "Sécheresse" de la DGH ont bénéficié des fonds du FDR, de la Loi
de Finance 1995/96, et du compte 111. Le montant total de ces ressources s'élève à 347
millions de DH. Les opérations DGH "Sécheresse" n'ont pas été financées par le prêt
BM. La DGH a réalisé un total de 2.148 ouvrages, dont 1.981 puits et 167 forages. Les
forages et quelques puits ont été équipés de pompes et de réservoirs. Les puits restants
sont généralement exploités de manière traditionnelle, par corde et sceau. Souvent ils ne
sont pas protégés, ce qui pose un risque de contamination.
23.   En ce qui concerne l'utilisation des puits, on constate quelques fois des problèmes
de concurrence d'anciennes sources d'eau. Lors des sécheresses, les anciens puits sont
asséchés et les nouveaux sont construits avec plus de profondeur que les anciens afin
d'assurer la disponibilité de l'eau pendant la sécheresse mais aussi pour améliorer la
qualité de l'eau potable. Toutefois, les anciennes sources sont préférées par la population
du fait que l'eau peut y être puisée plus facilement à l'aide de cordes et de sceaux. Dans
le cadre de programme PAGER, la DGH essaie de lancer une campagne de sensibilisation
concernant la qualité de l'eau des ouvrages construits dans le programme "Sécheresse" et
l'approvisionnement par pompage, lorsque les populations en font la demande.
III.   ComDosante Pistes Rurales
24.   La composante routière du programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse"
avait pour objectif d'améliorer l'accès des populations rurales aux services sociaux et de
santé et de permettre le transport des aides en aliments, eau, engrais, semences, etc., de
façon plus sure, rapide et économique.  Les travaux financés par ce programme
s'inscrivent dans le cadre du programme national de réhabilitation de 11.236 km
prioritaires du réseau de routes rurales. Ils s'intègrent particulièrement dans la première
tranche de 3.000 km de ce programme. La contribution de la composante routière du
programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse" a été estimée à 660,5 millions de
DH dont 377 millions de DH (42 millions de $EU) financés par la Banque mondiale. Ce
programme a permis la réalisation de 1.645 km de routes. Les montants unitaires des
projets financés ne dépassent pas 3 millions de $EU et 82 % d'entre eux ont des montants
inférieurs à 1 million de $EU.



25.   En dépit de la préparation rapide de ce programme, les risques de retard au niveau
de sa mise en oeuvre ont été évités par le choix de projets déjà identifiés et étudiés et par
l'adoption d'une procédure allégée de sélection des entreprises et de passation des
marchés. Les opérations financées par la Banque (69 opérations) ont toutes été achevées
physiquement dans les délais prévus, les décaissements de la Banque ont tous été
effectués. De plus, les coûts unitaires de construction sont nettement inférieurs à ceux
prévus au moment de la préparation du programme. Les projets ont été choisis parmi
ceux identifiés par les études antérieures de la DRCR dont la rentabilité économique - au
taux de 12 % - était assurée. Selon une étude récente de la Banque, les bénéfices et
impacts économiques et sociaux induits par la réhabilitation des routes rurales sont
extrêmement importants.
26.   Les leçons à retenir de la réalisation de ce programme concernent la démarche
utilisée pour sa préparation et son exécution. Cette procéclure allégée et décentralisée
pourrait être reprise non seulement dans l'éventualité de nouvelles interventions d'urgence
mais également pour la mise en ceuvre de futurs projets de développement du réseau
routier rural, dans la mesure où l'ampleur limitée des travaux permet leur réalisation par
des entreprises locales.
27.   Toutefois la durabilité des travaux financés dans le cadre de ce programme risque
d'être compromise si le budget alloué à cet effet serait insuffisant. Dans la mesure où le
réseau routier rural du Maroc s'accroît d'environ 1.300 km par an, la mission recommande
que la DRCR accélère le processus de définition d'une stratégie d'entretien du réseau
routier rural et évalue les besoins financiers réels d'une politique d'entretien adéquate.
28.   Enfin, la mission propose que la BM  appuie davantage la réalisation du
programme national de réhabilitation du réseau de routes rurales. L'objectif est de
réhabiliter 11.236 km prioritaires des 38.000 km du réseau marocain. Le rythme de
construction actuel est de 1.300 km par an mais la DRCR souhaite le porter à 3.000 km.
L'appui de la Banque devra pernettre d'accroître le linéaire construit chaque année et
d'assurer l'entretien du réseau déjà réhabilité.



Annexe I
ROYAUME DU MAROC
PROJET D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN EAU POTABLE
ET ASSAINISSEMENT (PAGER)
Mission de suivi
Juillet 1998
1.    La mission a discuté notamment les aspects suivants avec les responsables de la
DGH et de l'ONEP:
Premier Décaissement et Signature du Prêt PAGER (4254-MOR)
2.    La signature a été retardée en fonction de l'avancement des travaux, soit un
montant important à débourser. Selon la DGH, les premiers paiements pour des travaux
finis seraient de l'ordre de 20 millions de DH (env. 2,0 millions de $EU). Une demande
de décaissement sera envoyée à la BM au cours de la deuxième moitié de septembre
1998. La seule condition de mise en vigueur (un Guide de l'Animateur acceptable à la
Banque) est remplie. Il est proposé d'envisager la signature du prêt vers la fin août 1998.
Plan de financement du Programrne PAGER
3.    L'ancien plan du financement du PAGER se présentait de la manière suivante:
Source du financement    Montant      Montant
(en %)      (en millions de DH pâ.aà
Bénéficiaire             5            50
Collectivité locale      15           150
Taxe du PAGER            15           150
Don                      20           200
Budget financé par prêt    20         200
Budget non financé       ;.           MQ
Total                    100.         1000
4.    L'ancien plan de financement du PAGER n'a pas pu être actualisé du fait de la
faible contribution des sources de financement locales. Au cours de l'année dernière le
PAGER a été modifié. Le coût-efficacité du PAGER s'est amélioré. Le plafond des
coûts se situe actuellement à 1.200 DH par habitant et le coût moyen est de 850 DR/h.
contre 1.500 DHI/ h. auparavant. La participation minimum des bénéficiaires et des
collectivités locales est fixée à 20 % contre 5 % dans l'ancien programme. La taxe du
PAGER a été annoncée au 1 juillet 1998 et devrait rapporter quelque 60 millions de DH



en 1998/99. Avec les nouvelles sources locales de financement, le plan modifié est
proposé comnme suit:
Source du financement    Montant      Montant (Optionn A) Montant (Option B)
(en %!      (millions de Dl p.a.) (millions de DH p.a.)
Bénéficiaire et
Collectivité locale      20           80                120
TaxeduPAGER              15           60                 90
Don                      25           100               150
Budget                   40           14 uQ
Total                    100          400               600
5.    Dans le cadre du plan du financement en Option A, il faut environ 15 ans pour
achever le PAGER, mais avec un programme en Option B, il est possible de l'achever en
10 ans comme prévu.
Prograrme d'investissement 1998/99
6.    Les programmes provisoires pour l'exercice actuel de la DGH et de 1'ONEP ont
été discutés. La décision sur un programme d'investissemenl' de la DGH ne peut se faire
avant la ratification de la Loi de Finance 1998/99, prévue pour la mi-août 1998. Le
budget pour le PAGER dans la Loi de Finance 1998/99 est cle 100 millions de DH et la
partie financée par la BM serait d'environ 40 millions de DH. Le programme provisoire
remit par l'ONEP est de 70 millions de DH.
Prochaine mission de concertation du PAGER
7.    Il ressort des discussions avec des agents de la DRH sur le terrain, ainsi que de la
DGH à Rabat, qti d'importants progrès ont déjà été enregistrés et que les résultats dans
les provinces couvertes par la BM seront visibles dès la deuxième moitié d'octobre 1998.
La prochaine mission de concertation du PAGER est dès lors proposée pour la mi-octobre
1998.



ANNEXE 2
ROYAUME DU MAROC
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES EFFETS DE LA SECHERESSE
(Prêt 3935-MOR)
Mission de Conclusion du Projet
Juillet 1998
Composante Eau Potable
Aspects financiers
1.    La composante AEP, telle que retenue par le projet après réduction de l'enveloppe
- actualisée au 30 juin 1998, se résume comme suit:
Opération Solidarité Sécheresse    FDR/   Total
Phase I            FADES
Cofinanciers               BM      FADES    s/total
Nombre d'opérations        18         16        34         42         76
Nombre de marchés          40         24        64         70        134
Coûts estimatifs (MDH retenu) 77,7    65,6    143,3        45,3      188,6
Coût des travaux accessoires                    2,4                    2,4
Nombre de provinces        13         11        24         22         32*
Nombre de centres et douars  62      159      221          37        258
*     Certains centres FDRJFADES se chevauchent avec ceux de la BM et FADES de la Phase 1.
2.    Selon des informations de l'ONEP pratiquement tous les marchés financés dans le
cadre du prêt Banque mondiale sont achevés, soit un total de 143,3 millions de DH, ce
qui correspond à un taux de réalisation d'environ 100 %. En ce qui concerne les marchés
financés à partir du FDR, tous sont achevés.
3.    A la date du 30 juin 1998, le taux de réalisation pour l'ensemble des travaux est
de 100 %. Ce taux est basé sur le montant réduit de 188,6 millions de DH, (au lieu de
239 millions). Le coût final du projet est de 196,1 millions de DH. Après la fin de la
sécheresse le Gouvernement marocain et la Banque se sont mis d'accord pour réduire le
programme, et le limiter à la première phase, le reliquat étant transféré au programme
PAGER. Les travaux ONEP sont complétés, sauf un contrat qui a enregistré un retard
inattendu. Les travaux d'électrification par l'Office National de l'Electricité (ONE) de la
station de pompage de Smimou (fonctionnant à présent avec un générateur de l'ONEP)
sont presque terminés. Pour la traversée- de la conduite électrique d'une propriété
publique, l'autorisation du Ministère des Eaux et Forêts est encore attendue. L'ONEP a
informé aussi bien l'ONE que le Ministère de l'urgence de ce projet et a reçu l'assurance



que cette affaire serait traitée avec priorité. Les paiement effectués par l'ONEP pour tous
les travaux mentionnés ci-dessus sont de l'ordre de 80,CI millions de DH (Banque
mondiale) et 110,6 millions de DH (FADES).
Visite sur le terrain
Province d 'Ouarzazate
4.    Kelâa-M'Gouna (11,300 habitants), centre ONEP. Comme constaté lors de la
dernière mission, l'extension du réseau et la construction d'un réservoir, telles que
prévues par le projet, sont terminées. Le réseau couvre plus de 90 % du centre urbain
avec un taux de raccordement de près de 90 %. Mais dans les quartiers limitrophes au
centre urbain, les populations hésitent à se brancher au réseau, du fait de la charge élevée
pour le raccordement. Selon les critères ONEP, les frais de branchement sont basés sur la
longueur de la surface de la propriété.
5.    Le coût du branchement qui est de 430 DH par mètre linéaire de la surface de la
propriété se traduit en milieu urbain par un coût moyen de 5.000 à 6.000 DH par
propriété.  Cette charge devient considérablement plus élevée dans les quartiers
limitrophes qui ont normalement un caractère rural. La mission a visité le quartier de
Mima (env. 500 hab.) et a eu des entretiens avec plusieurs femmes, dont les maisons ne
sont pas branchées. Elles ont déclaré que les frais de raccordement étaient trop élevés.
Dans les cas visités, ils variaient entre 10.000 et 20.000 DH selon la longueur des
façades. Par ailleurs, chacune des maisons possède un puits. La nappe phréatique étant
très élevée dans cette région, le risque de pollution par les fosses perdues est important.
Les familles visitées disposaient d'un puits d'environ dix mètres de profondeur, et les
toilettes ou latrines se trouvaient pratiquement à côté. Les femmes ont déclaré que leurs
enfants avaient au moins deux à trois cas de diarrhée par an (le coût du traitement médical
est d'environ 500 DH par enfant par an).
6.    La mission recommande à l'ONEP les actions suivantes:
i)    Réexaminer le coût de branchement pour les quartiers limitrophes et centres de
caractère rural, afin d'encourager le raccordement au réseau;
ii)    Lancer en effort de sensibilisation sur les risques de santé liés au manque
d'hygiène et à la pollution de l'eau de la nappe en vue d'encourager le
branchement;
iii)   Construire une ou deux bornes fontaines (BF) pour ces quartiers limitrophes en
attendant que les branchements privés puissent se faire ; et
iv)    Système d'assainissement des eaux usées - étant donné que la ville de Kelâa
M'Gouna ne dispose d'aucun système d'assainissement collectif. La nappe étant
relativement près de la surface, un système de collecte et de traitement des eaux



usées semble prioritaire. Dans ce contexte, la KfW a déjà financé une étude, et
une mission de préparation KfW pour la deuxième tranche de projets
"Assainissement des petits centres urbains" est actuellement au Maroc pour
présélectionner des centres à être inclus dans cette prochaine tranche.
7.    Zaouit My Abdelmalek (env. 6.200 hab.), centre Direction Régionale de
l'Hvdraulique (DRH). Ce centre rural - un des quatre de la Province d'Ouarzazate - pour
lequel un puits et un réservoir (30 m3) ont été construits en partenariat avec la Province.
L'équipement a été financé par la JICA. Ce centre a été visité par une mission de la BM
en 1996 qui a établi que la population refuse la construction d'une BF, car elle exige des
branchements particuliers. Ce cas s'applique aux quatre centres et demeure inchangé. nl
n'y a qu'un seul branchement pour la maison de la commune. Le reste des habitants
continue à s'alimenter aux 'seguia' (caniveaux d'irrigation) et aux puits privés souvent
pollués.
8.    Selon la DRH, ces centres ont été choisis pour la dotation de systèmes d'AEP par
la Province, sans consultation ni sensibilisation préalable de la population. Les efforts de
sensibilisation après les faits ont généralement peu de succès.
9.    Les recommandations à la DGH/DRH sont les suivantes:
i)    Contacter le Gouverneur d'Ouarzazate afin qu'il intervienne auprès des
communes concernées pour encourager la création d'une association ou amicale, le cas
échéant, et la construction d'une ou plusieurs BF en attendant que les moyens pour un
réseau et des branchements individuels soient disponibles;
ii)    Sensibiliser le niveau provincial sur l'ensemble du territoire marocain, y compris
les gouverneurs, dans le cadre du PAGER, quant à l'importance de la consultation
préalable et de la participation de la population, ainsi qu'à l'approche visant à répondre à
une demande réelle, afin d'assurer la durabilité d'un projet.
Province de Taroudannt
10.   Oulad Berhil (pop. 10,000), centre ONEP. Le centre n'a pas été visité, mais une
discussion de suivi aux dernières missions de concertation (voir Aide-mémoire (AM) de
décembre 1997 et mars 1998) a eu lieu avec le Directeur de l'ONEP à Taroudannt. Les
travaux d'extension du réseau et de construction d'un réservoir ont été terminés de façon
satisfaisante. Mais le problème de la nappe polluée par l'absence d'un système de
collecte et de traitement des eaux usées de la ville persiste. Ceci pose un risque de santé
pour les habitants dans les quartiers limitrophes, qui ne bénéficient pas du réseau et de
branchements individuels et, par conséquence, s'alimentent à partir de puits dans leurs
maisons, puits souvent contaminés d'excréta.



I1.   L'ONEP n'a pas construit de BF pour les habitants limitrophes, car (i) les
habitants n'en ont pas formulé la demande, et (ài) une extension du réseau dans ces
quartiers est prévue, dont les travaux devraient commencer en octobre 1998.
12.   En outre, ce centre a été étudié pour un système de collecte et de traitement des
eaux usées dans le cadre de la deuxième tranche cle financement KfW pour
l'assainissement des petits centres.
13.   Les recommandations à l'ONEP sont les suivantes:
i)    lancer une campagne de sensibilisation intensive auprès des populations
limitrophes qui bénéficieront de l'extension prochaine du réseau en parallèle avec les
travaux de construction ; et
ii)    prioritiser le centre Oulad Berhil à fin qu'il soit retenu pour le financement KfW
dans la deuxième tranche des systèmes d'assainissement.
14.   Douar Boumesref (pop. 2.500), commune d'Oulad Teima (pop. 60.000), deux BF,
centre ONEP. La situation décrite dans les AM de décembre 1997 et mars 1998 demeure
inchangée. La mission a rencontré les responsables de l'amicale créée pour la gestion des
BF, ainsi que le vice-président de la commune. L'amicale insiste sur le fait que la
population exige des branchements individuels et ne veut pas des BF. Après discussion
avec l'ONEP à Rabat, la mission a proposé, qu'avec l'assistance technique de l'ONEP,
l'amicale prenne elle-même en charge le financement et la, construction d'un réservoir
surélevé et d'un réseau de distribution à partir du branchement aux BF. L'ONEP vendrait
l'eau à l'amicale qui serait responsable de la gestion et de l'entretien du système de
distribution. En attendant, l'amicale désignerait un gardien gérant (GG) afin d'opérer les
BF aussitôt que possible. Bien qu'initialement réticente à la proposition d'assumer la
responsabilité de la distribution et de la gestion de l'eau, l'amnicale a finalement marqué
son accord avec la proposition, et le vice-président de la commune à assurer la mission
qu'un GG sera nommé "la semaine prochaine".
15.   La recommandation à l'ONEP est de suivre ce cas de près, ainsi que d'assurer
l'intervention du Gouverneur de Taroudannt en faveur des BF en attendant que la
commune et le Douar Boumesref puissent mobiliser les ressources nécessaires pour
construire un réseau.
16.   Douars Ait Said et Ait Lamti (pop. 1.500), commune rurale d'Issen, centres DRH.
Lors du dernier passage d'une mission BM en 1996, la DRH avait construit un puits
traditionnel (corde et sceau) d'une profondeur d'environ 20 m.  La population
n'appréciait pas l'eau puisée au puits du fait de son niveau relativement élevé de salinité
(1,7 g/l). En outre, la nappe risquait d'être contaminée par des ordures et fosses perdues
en provenance d'un des villages situés près du puits. La mission a recommandé
d'explorer la possibilité d'utiliser un forage à une distance d'environ 3 km, dont le débit
et la qualité de l'eau seraient suffisants pour ces deux douars.



17.   La mission a constaté que dernièrement la DRH avait accru la profondeur du puits
à 30 m (la nappe se trouve à 17 m) et construit un réservoir surélevé de 30 m3. Le projet
n'attend plus que l'installation de l'équipement d'exhaure, soit une pompe thernique.
Toutefois, le problème de salinité et le risque de contamination sont les mêmes qu'avant.
18.   La mission a visité le forage d'Igoudar (non exploité et fermé, datant d'env.
1980), qui se trouve à 3 km des deux douars. La mission, l'amicale d'Ait Said et les
agents DRH, se sont mis d'accord en vue de réexaminer la possibilité d'utiliser ce forage
qui non seulement se trouve en aval d'agglomérations peuplées, mais qui a une
profondeur de plus de 100 m et un débit de 300 à 500 m3 par jour et une eau potable de
qualité. Le forage pourrait approvisionner 11 villages (pop. 6.000), y compris les deux
douars. Le financement de ce projet serait proposé dans le cadre du PAGER.
19.   La recommandation à la DRH/DGH est d'inclure le projet autour du forage
d'Igoudar dans le programme 1998/99 du PAGER.
Province de Chtouka (Région d'Azadir)
20.   Ait Ouamna (pop. 1,800), commune de Biougra, centre DRH. Dans le cadre du
projet "Sécheresse", en 1994, le village a créé une association chargée de la gestion de
l'eau potable et de l'électricité, et la DRH a construit un forage (138 m de profondeur,
débit de 16 m3 par heure, d'une eau potable de qualité), un château d'eau (48 m3) et un
réseau de distribution avec une BF. Chaque maison a une fosse perdue. La mission a
visité le système d'AEP et s'est entretenue avec les principaux membres de l'association,
soit le président, vice-président, trésorier et gardien-technicien.  Seul ce dernier est
salarié, les autres membres sont des volontaires.
21.   Le système fonctionne bien. Mise à part une BF, on compte 209 abonnés avec
compteurs, qui paient un tarif uniforme de 5 DH par m3, et qui consomment en moyenne
près de 30 litres par habitant et par jour (Ihj). L'eau à la BF est gratuite. Le branchement
individuel coûte 500 DH, y compris le prix pour le compteur. Le coût de l'ensemble du
système était d'environ 900.000 DH, ce qui correspond à environ 450 DH par abonné
(45 $EU), soit la moitié du coût moyen estimé pour le PAGER. Les dépenses d'entretien
du système d'AEP sont d'environ 3.000 à 4.000 DH par mois (gasoil, gardien, petites
réparations). Les revenus sont d'environ 4.500 DH. Les services à l'Office National de
l'Electricité (ONE) - lecture des compteurs, collecte des tarifs - sont rendus gratuitement
par l'association.
22.   Vu la capacité limitée du réservoir et celle de la pompe pour travailler de manière
continue, le seul souci de l'association est d'obtenir une pompe plus forte afin de
permettre une extension du réseau et des branchements individuels. La DRH envisage
d'équiper ce forage avec une nouvelle pompe avec l'assistance de la JICA. Bien que le
village soit électrifié, l'association préfere une pompe thermique, car "l'électricité coûte
trop cher".



23.   La recommandation à la DRH/DGH est d'examiner la relation coût-rendement
entre une pompe thernique et une pompe électrogène. En général, le coût d'achat, ainsi
que d'entretien de la dernière est plus favorable que celui d'une pompe à diesel.
24.   Bioupra (env. 20.000 habitants, plus 5.000 à 10.000 ouvriers saisonniers d'octobre
à février), centre ONEP. La mission de la BM s'est jointe à une mission KfW qui se
trouvait sur place pour la préparation de la deuxième tranche du financement de systèmes
d'assainissement dans de petits centres (voir ci-dessus).
25.   Tandis que l'extension du réseau et des branchements (augmentation des
branchements de 2.400 à 3.200) dans le cadre du projet "Sécheresse" s'est conclue de
façon satisfaisante, le taux de couverture du service n'est que de 75 %. Il n'y pas de BF
et l'ONEP n'envisage pas d'en construire pour éviter le gaspillage et pour encourager les
branchements individuels. En attendant, les 25 % d'habitants non desservis par des
branchements individuels, s'approvisionnent aux puits privés - avec un grand risque pour
la santé.
26.   La nappe phréatique se trouve à une profondeur de 30 à 40 m. seulement. Il n'y a
aucun système de collecte et de traitement des eaux usées. Mais pratiquement chaque
maison a une fosse perdue (en moyenne d'une profondeur de 6 à 12 m) comme toilette.
Etant donné la nature sableuse du sol, et une consommation cl'eau d'environ 60 lhj, il y a
une forte i.-ifiltration des eaux usées et excréta dans la nappe. En plus d'une extension
supplémentaire du réseau de 17 km par l'ONEP, qui envisage d'augmenter le taux de
desserte par branchements individuels d'ici quatre ans à 90 %, la construction d'un
système de collecte et de traitement des eaux usées est prioritaire. Ceci permettrait de
protéger les ressources de la nappe, ainsi que la santé publique. Les réunions du Conseil
Municipal et du Gouverneur avec la mission KfW (auxque]lles la mission de la BM a
participé) ont montré un vif intérêt et engagement de la part de la municipalité et de la
Province pour que Biougra soit retenu au nombre des centres à être financés par la KfW.
27.   La recommandation à l'ONEP est de poursuivre le dialogue avec la KfW afin
d'entamer les travaux d'assainissement de la ville de Biougra aussitôt que possible.
Réeion de Saiss /Meknes et Cherkaoua
28.   La mission a visité 13 douars dans le région de Saiss / Meknes et Cherkaoua. Les
BF à Cherkaoua sont plus en demande que celles de Saiss / Meknes du fait de la forte
concurrence des sources plus anciennes à Saiss / Meknes. Dans le cadre d'une campagne
de sensibilisation de l'ONEP, le nombre de BF mises en service avec gardiens gérants est
passé de 1 à 27.



Conclusions et recommandations générales pour le secteur AEP et assainissement en
milieu rural.
28.   Les deux projets, Lutte contre les effets de la Sécheresse et PAGER, sont liés par
leurs objectifs visant à améliorer la santé et le bien-être général en milieu rural. Le
PAGER peut bénéficier des leçons et expériences du projet "Sécheresse", notamment en
ce qui concerne la sensibilisation et la participation des populations ciblées, ainsi que de
l'approche de réponse à une demande réelle exprimée par la population, plutôt que de
réponse à un besoin supposé.
29.   Dans ce sens la mission recommande, aussi bien pour la phase opérationnelle du
projet "Sécheresse" que pour la réalisation du projet PAGER:
i)    Au niveau de la sensibilisation, que
a)    l'ONEP et la DGH/DRH veillent à rattraper aussi rapidement et intensément que
possible l'absence de sensibilisation des populations bénéficiaires dans le cadre du projet
"Sécheresse", due à l'urgence du projet;
b)    l'ONEP et la DGH/DRH lancent un programme de sensibilisation global aux
aspects de participation et réponse à la demande au niveau des Provinces, Gouverneurs et
autres politiciens, afin d'assurer la durabilité des projets de systèmes d'AEP et
assainissement;
ii)    Au niveau du prix de l'eau à la BF, que l'ONEP réalise une étude sur le coût de
revient réel (coût marginal) de l'eau à la BF, soit à partir d'un "piquage", soit à partir
d'un forage. Ceci en vue de baisser le prix relativement élevé (au moins 10 DH/m3) de
l'eau à la BF, qui pourrait être la raison du faible niveau de consommation de l'eau (en
moyenne 5 à 12 lhj), ce qui à son tour minimise les bénéfices de santé;
iii)   Au niveau du coût d'un branchement particulier, que l'ONEP réexamine le critère
d'application du mètre linéaire de la façade de la propriété dans des quartiers limitrophes
d'un centre urbain ou d'un petit centre urbain à caractère rural, pour la détermination du
coût du branchement particulier.  A  l'heure actuelle, ce coût est généralement
considérablement plus élevé qu'en milieu urbain, ce qui décourage le branchement;
iv)   Au niveau de la formation et de l'appui supplémentaire des Equipes mobiles de
participation (EMPf, que la DGH se mette d'accord avec le Représentant de l'OMS à
Rabat sur l'emploi des 200.000 $EU que l'OMS est prête à mettre à disposition du
PAGER à l'appui des EMP actuelles, ou pour la formation et/ou l'équipement d'EMP
additionnelles.



Annex 3
Royaume du Maroc
Programme d'urgence contre la sécheresse
(Prêt 3935-MOR)
Mission d'achèvement pour les composantes Elevage elt Semences céréalières
Juillet 1998
Aide-mmnir
1.    Dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du Projet d'urgence de lutte contre la
sécheresse (Prêt 3935-MOR), une mission de la Banque mondiale a séjourné au Maroc en
juillet 1998, pour les aspects relatifs à la composante élevage et à la composante
semences céréalières. La mission tient à remercier les responsables, cadres et agents de la
Direction de l'Elevage (DE) et de la Direction de la Production Végétale (DPV) du
Ministère de l'Agriculture du Développement Rural et des Pêches Maritimes, et à travers
eux les autorités marocaines, pour leur accueil chaleureux et l"excellente coopération dont
la mission a pu bénéficier. La mission remercie également la toute nouvelle mission
résidente pour son appui logistique. Les idées et conclusions exprimées dans le présent
aide-mémoire ont été présentées et validées par la DE et la DPV.
2.    Cette mission est la cinquième et dernière mission. d'appui à la composante
élevage du programme d'urgence contre la sécheresse. L'objectif est d'évaluer les
progrès réalisés depuis la dernière mission de concertation de juin 1997 (par. 7-11) et de
dresser le bilan général de la composante Elevage du programme depuis sa, préparation
jusqu'à son achèvement (par. 12 et 13). La mission est également chargée de faire le
bilan de l'opération semences céréalières (par. 14-16).
Rappel des objectifs et des résultats des missions précédentes
3.    Mission de juillet 1995. La première mission de préparation du projet permet à
la DE et à la Banque mondiale de préciser les prises de position de chacun et d'initier un
programme court termn'sur les bases d'un solide consensus. C'est ainsi que les éléments
tels que la subvention et/ou le transport des aliments du bétail, la protection sanitaire du
bétail, l'abreuvement du bétail et le suivi de l'opération de sauvegarde et de protection du
cheptel sont spécifiés. Cette mission permet également d"analyser ex ante le coût-
bénéfice de l'opération court terme et de déterminer quelles améliorations pourraient être
apportées au programme. C'est également à cette occasion que se précise la volonté
d'accompagner le programme à court terme mar un prog ame à plug, long terme de
préparation du secteur de l'élevage à la sécheresse.
4.    Mission de mars 1996. La première mission de concertation du projet est
l'occasion de dresser un premier bilan, technique, de l'opération de sauvegarde et de
protection du cheptel. Elle détaille le bilan des actions entreprises (distribution des
aliments composés subventionnés, transport des aliments simples, importation et



2
protection sanitaire du cheptel), précise les mesures innovantes qui viennent renforcer
l'opération, détaille les coûts et les sources de financement des différentes actions, et
analyse l'impact de l'opération de sauvegarde et de protection du cheptel, en particulier
par rapport aux objectifs recherchés sur les effectifs reproducteurs, le cours des aliments
de bétail, la production de viande rouge et les prix de la viande et du lait. Elle permet
également de dessiner les grandes lignes d'un programrnme à plus long terme de
préparation à la sécheresse. Le schéma conceptuel de modélisation des stratégies de
l'élevage voit le jour et permet de définir avec précision les actions à mettre en oeuvre
pour une meilleure analyse du secteur et une meilleure conception des politiques de
développement de l'élevage au Maroc.
5.    Mission de juillet 1996.  La deuxième mission de concertation du projet
intervient, pour ce qui est des aspects élevage, quatre mois seulement après celle qui avait
permnis de tracer les grandes lignes du programme à plus long terme. Elle se justifie par le
fait qu'il est nécessaire de s'assurer que le concept ainsi défini correspond bien aux
exigences et aux conditions de la DE, et de définir avec précision, pour chaque élément
du dispositif proposé, les actions à mettre en oeuvre.  Cette mission se consacre
entièrement à la préparation d'un Système d'Information et de Modélisation du secteur de
l'Elevage (SIMEL).
6.    Mission de juillet 1997. La dernière mission de concertation poursuit un double
objectif: (i) elle complète l'évaluation technique de l'opération de sauvegarde et de
protection du cheptel faite en mars 1996, par une dnalyse économique ex-poçt ; et (ii) elle
évalue les progrès réalisés dans la préparation du programme à plus long terme et plus
particulièrement pour ce qui est de son outil central, le SIMEL.
Chacune de ces missions a fait l'objet d'un aide-mémoire détaillé et validé par la
DE qui est disponible auprès du chargé de projet.
Progrès réalisés depuis la dernière mission de concertation de jui»; 1997 (voir
également la matrice des réalisations en annexe 1).
7.    Paramètres zootechniques.  Le module 2 du SIMEL qui était en cours de
réalisation lors de la dermière mission de concertation, est maintenant finalisé. Un
document de synthèse produit par le service du suivi et de l'évaluation est maintenant
disponible.' Il indique les paramètres zootechniques de base qui ont été retenus après une
large consultation par questionnaire auprès des DPA  et des ORMVA.  Ceux-ci
concernent pour chacune des huit classes d'âge retenue de mâles et de femelles, pour les
espèces bovine, ovine et caprine, les races locales, croisées et pures, les systèmes de
production bovin laitier ou mixte, ovin semi-intensif et extensif et caprin extensif, et les
Système d'Information et de Modélisation du secteur de l'Elevage: paramètres zootechniques.
Ministère de l'Agriculture du Développement Rural et des Pêches Maritimes - Direction de r'Elevage
- Service du Suivi et de l'Evaluation, mai 1998, 100 p.



zones agro-écologiques irriguées, agricole, agro-pastorale, sylvo-pastorale et pastorale,
les effectifs, taux de mortalité, taux de fécondité, taux d'explloitation, poids des animaux,
production de lait, et prix viande et lait pour les 7 ORMVA et 41 DPA enquêtées. Il
s'agit d'un travail très important qui servira de référence pour les années à venir et qui
sera réactualisé à partir des informations recueillies périodiquement par le suivi des
exploitations de référence (par. 8). La dernière étape de collecte des infornations devant
alimenter le SIMEL est maintenant achevée. Il reste à valider ces données de base par un
travail collectif de mise en cohérence des paramètres à l'aide du logiciel LIVMOD
(développement de prototypes).
8.    Suivi des exploitations de référence. Le suivi des exploitations de référence
consiste en une évaluation continue des filières lait et viandes rouges Les indicateurs de
base collectés au niveau des exploitations et qui constitueront le tableau de bord des
filières sont de trois types: (i) les indicateurs techniques: degré de qualification
professionnelle, degré de technicité, structure de l'Unité Gros Bétail, structure de l'Unité
Zootechnique, ressources alimentaires ; (ii) les indicateurs économiques: coût de
production, recettes, résultats bruts, bénéfice net, coût unitaire ; et (iii) les indicateurs de
suivi: niveau de formation de l'éleveur, organisation professionnelle, effectifs animaux,
structure d'âge, performance de reproduction.
L'analyse sera faite au niveau de l'exploitation, des DPA et ORMVA et au niveau
national. Depuis la dernière mission de concertation, les actions suivantes ont été
réalisées: révision et allégement du questionnaire, définiti[on des états de sorties du
logiciel, révision des formules de calcul du logiciel. La première version du logiciel a été
livrée le 25 juin 1998 pour test et vérifications. Les dernières observations (corrections
ou précisions apportées au questionnaire) ont été remises au Bureau d'études pour
finalisation. Le suivi devrait être opérationnel enjanvier 1999.
9.    Suivi des parcours. Le dispositif de suivi des parcours est aujourd'hui en place.
Les sites agro-pastoraux ont été ajoutés à la liste des sites pastoraux pour que le suivi soit
représentatif de l'ensemble des écosystèmes pastoraux représentés au Maroc. 1 1 DPA
soit au total 1 1 sites sont l'objet de transects bi-annuels (en automne et au printemps).
Les informations collectées au niveau des DPA sont transmises sous la forme d'un
bulletin à la DE.
La DE est en mesure d'évaluer, deux fois par an ou à la demande (comme c'est le
cas par exemple pour l'évolution des indicateurs de suivi de la situation de l'élevage), le
dispon.ib?ç fqrrager selon deux scénarios prévisionnels de précipitations. La formule
utilisée par la DE pour le calcul de la production prévisionnelle est selon elle perfectible
et il est attendu qu'elle s'affine avec le temps (comparaison des productions prévues et
actuelles) pour prendre en compte d'autres éléments que celui de la seule pluviométrie
(degré d'ensoleillement par exemple) et qu'elle soit régionalisée pour tenir compte des
spécificités des différents écosystèmes pastoraux.



4
L'autre aspect important du suivi conceme l'évaluation qualitative des parcours
suivis. Les indicateurs de suivi sont performants et de nature à définir les tendances
évolutives de la productivité des parcours.  La question qui se pose est celle de
l'utilisation qui en sera faite, au niveau local (avec participation des acteurs de base pour
que les résultats des suivis soient pris en compte dans la gestion quotidienne des
parcours), au niveau régional (avec la participation des projets et programmes) et au
niveau national (dans les prises de décisions sur les actions à mener).
10.   Appui technique et plan de formation. L'étape finale de la mise en oeuvre du
SIMEL concerne la capacité informatique de la DE à finaliser le concept de modélisation.
Des contacts ont été pris entre la DE et l'Université de Purdue aux Etats-Unis.
Les discussions ont porté sur le choix du type de modèle qui répondrai le mieux aux
préoccupations de la DE en matière d'analyse et de planification notamment en période
de sécheresse. Le type de modèle retenu est la simulation dynamique qui permettra
l'incorporation de l'élément risque, les relations technico-économiques et les boucles de
feed-back. Le département de l'économie agricole de l'Université de Purdue peut
collaborer avec la DE pour l'élaboration du modèle de simulation désiré. Pour mener
cette étude, l'Université de Purdue a évalué les fonds nécessaires qui s'élèveraient à
250.000 dollars EU environ pour une durée de 9 à 12 mois. Une proposition détaillée
sera communiquée par la DE à la Banque mondiale pour avis. En toute vraisemblance,
cette proposition devrait retenir le soutien de la Banque dans la mesure où elle poursuit et
mène à son terme les actions entreprises jusque-là par la DE dans le cadre du programme
à long terme de préparation à la sécheresse.
Enfin, le développement de la capacité informatique de la DE doit compléter la
proposition précédente. L'estimation des besoins additionnels identifiés lors de la
mission de concertation de juillet 1996 pour un montant d'environ 300.000 dollars EU et
qui concernait les matériels et logiciels informatiques, les formations et l'appui externe,
reste toujours valide et devrait venir en complément de la proposition de Purdue.
Il.   Audits financiers. Deux rapports d'audit sont disponibles et ont été remis à la
mission: celui qui couvre la période du 1er juillet 1995 (démarrage du projet) au 30 juin
1996, et celui qui couvre la période du 1er juillet 1996 au 30 juin 1997. Un dernier audit
couvrant la période du ler juillet 1997 à la date d'achèvement du projet est programmé.
Bilan de la composante Elevage
12.   Opération à court terme. Le programme de sauvegarde et de protection du
cheptel a concerne les opérations suivantes: (i) distribution de 275.100 tonnes d'aliments
composés subventionnés ; (ài) transport des aliments de bétail qui a concerné
88.300 tonnes d'orge, 21.700 tonnes d'aliments composés et 5.200 tonnes d'aliments
simples ; (iii) l'importation et la distribution d'orge à guichet ouvert pour un total de
476.500 tonnes ; (iv) l'importation libre des aliments de bétail en exonération des taxes et
droits de douane pour un total de 526.500 tonnes de luzerne déshydratée, de pulpe sèche



5
de betterave et de son ; (v) la création, l'aménagement et l'équipement de 286 points
d'eau et l'acquisition de 100 citernes et 10. camions citernes ; et (vi) la protection sanitaire
du cheptel qui a concemé 4 millions de têtes ovines et caprines pour les traitements
antiparasitaires et les vaccinations contre les entérotoxémies.
L'évaluation technique de l'impact de l'opération de sauvegarde et de protection
du cheptel a conclu que cette composante avait atteint ces objectifs: (i) le cheptel de base
a été maintenu à un niveau permettant une reconstitution rapide des effectifs après la
sécheresse ; et (ii) les prix des aliments de bétail et des produits animaux ont été stabilisés
et un approvisionnement régulier du marché en aliments et en produits animaux a été
assuré.
Les résultats de l'analyse économique ex-post, résumés dans le tableau 1, --nnent
renforcer l'analyse technique. Le taux d'intérêt (percentage change) est de i21/ I'<r
cent. A titre indicatif2, cette valeur se situe entre la valeur calculée au démîarrag_ .
projet (17,6 pour cent) et celle qui avait été calculée pour une opération "améliorëe' de
déstockage précoce et sélectif (23,3 pour cent).
TableLau l. Résultats de l'analyse coût-bénéfice de l'opération de sauvegarde et de
protection du cheptel ovin (millions de DH.)
Valeur différentielle    Valeur actualisée  Taux d'intérêt par
du cheptel           nette                 rapport à la situation
sans projet (%)
Sans projet          -121,5                16 075
22,7
Avec projet          + 91                  19 718
Par rapport aux interventions précédentes3, des améliorations ont été apportées:
(i)    L'organisation de la distribution des aliments composés subventionnés a été renforcée par
rapport à la précédente sécheresse 92-93 par la responsabilisation des Chambres
d'Agriculture (CA) et la création de comité de contrôle au niveau de chaque province.
Par ailleurs la DE a effectué ses propres contrôles. En cours d'opération il a été procédé à
la révision du taux de subvention pour le rendre variable de 30 à 50 % pour la deuxième
tranche, au lieu d'un taux fixe de 50 % pour la première tranche, et ce dans le but
d'obtenir des prix unifiés au niveau des différentes provinces. Cela a permis en outre
d'augmenter les quantités subventionnées de 56 % à montant, égal. Le coût de l'opération
2   Compte tenu des modifications apportées lors de l'analyse cc-post, ces résultats ne peuvent étre
comparés sensus stricto à ceux qui figurent dans le document d'évaluation du projet (analyse ex-
ante).
Un document produit par la DE en mai 1996 à l'occasion de l'atelier régional sur l'amélioration
pastorale (Tunisie 23-25 mai 1996) fait l'analyse critique des modalités d'intervention de la DE dans
le cadre des opérations de sauvegarde du cheptel depuis les années 70.



6
d'AC subventionné est de l'ordre de 1,05 DH/kg, en légère réduction par rapport à la
situation de 92-93 (1,2 DH/kg). Le secteur organisé a été le principal bénéficiaire de
l'opération (coopératives, associations professionnelles).
(ii)   Les mesures d'exonération des taxes et droits de douane à l'importation des aliments
simples ont joué un rôle important dans l'approvisionnement du marché par les
opérateurs privés, encouragés par cette disposition.
(iii) La DE a procédé à la prise en charge des frais de transport des aliments simples
moyennant la passation de marché avec l'Office National des Transports. Cinq marchés
cadres ont été conclus pour un montant global de 86 millions de DH. Le montant des
enveloppes allouées a été accordé à hauteur des demandes exprimées au niveau de chaque
province.
(iv)   Des opérations encadrées de distribution des aliments d'importation ont été menées par
les CA, les opérateurs privés et le département de l'Agriculture, sous la forme
d'engagements contractuels (24.846  tonnes d'aliments  ont bénéficiées de cet
encadrement).
Le bilan de l'opération de sauvegarde et de protection du cheptel 1995 est donc
positif. L'opération a été améliorée par rapport aux années précédentes, elle a atteint ces
objectifs, elle a été jugée économiquement rentable. Les réserves émises par la mission
de préparation du projet restent cependant valides. Un déstockage plus rapide et plus
sélectif devrait apporter de meilleurs résultats. L'analyse plus fine du devenir des
aliments distribués au niveau des ménages, ainsi que l'impact écologique de ceux-ci sur
les parcours auraient également apporté des indications importantes pour les opérations
futures. Ces réserves devraient disparaître avec la mise en place d'une stratégie à plus
long terme de préparation à la sécheresse.
13.   Stratégie à long terme. Un des atouts du projet, est qu'il a su profiter d'une
opération d'urgence, nécessairement imparfaite dans sa conception, pour initier un travail
de fonds sur la stratégie à long terme à adopter face aux sécheresses futures. Il s'agit
d'un thème essentiel qui n'a reçu que peu d'attention jusqu'à présent. C'est un sujet peu
connu et complexe qui nécessite de la rigueur et du temps. L'instnrment central du
dispositif en place est le SIMEL. Il s'agit d'un concept novateur, qui, s'il n'est pas
encore finalisé à l'achèvement du projet, a déjà permis à la DE d'affiner son système
d'information sur le secteur, la production de deux documents de référence sur
l'évaluation du disponible alimentaire et les paramètres zootechniques, et la mise en place
de deux systèmes complémentaires de suivi permanent sur le tenrain: le suivi des
parcours et le suivi des exploitations de référence.
Une note stratégique synthétique de préparation du secteur de l'élevage à la
sécheresse est en préparation. Il est clair qu'au delà de cette préoccupation essentielle de
la préparation à la sécheresse l'outil proposé permettra d'autres réflexions et sera donc de



7
manière plus générale un outil de suivi, d'aide à la formulation de politiques et d'aide à la
gestion du secteur. Et c'est là une retombée très positive du projet.
Bilan de la composante Semences céréalières
14.   Les mesures prises pour la campagne 1994-95 sont de deux ordres. Il s'agit tout
d'abord de mesures conjoncturelles, incitatives, directement rattachables au programme
d'urgence contre la sécheresse: elles ont porté sur la collecte et l'utilisation des semences
céréalières certifiées et "bonnes à semer". Il s'agit par ailleurs, de mesure$ structurelles,
stratégiques, qui sont venues accompagner ces mesures incitatives mais qui ne sont pas
directement rattachables au programme de lutte contre la sécheresse : elles portent sur le
stockage, le transport et le déclassement des semences céréalières certifiées
commercialisées par la SONACOS.
15.   Collecte des semences céréalières. Compte tenu du faible niveau de production
des semences céréalières au cours de la campagne 1994.-95 et afin de garantir un
approvisionnement normal du marché en cet intrant pour la campagne suivante 1995-96,
les mesures suivantes ont été prises:
(i)   une augmentation substantielle et exceptionnelle des prix à la production des
semences certifiées de 500 DH/t pour les semences de blé tendre et d'orge et de
700 DH/t pour les semences de blé rilir afin d'inciter les multiplicateurs à livrer
leurs semences dans le circuit officiel. Cette mesure a permis la collecte de
26.621 tonnes de semences certifiées;
(ii)   une intervention exceptionnelle sur le "bon à semer" à travers la SONACOS, dans
le but de combler le déficit en semences certifiées, qui a permis de collecter
14 655 tonnes de semences de bonne qualité.
Ces mesures ont permis, en tenant compte d'un stock de 33.000 tonnes, la mise
sur le marché d'une quantité d'environ,74.276 tonnes, volume dépassant de 14 % les
ventes moyennes de 65.000 tonnes. Il n'a pas été fait recours à l'importation de
semences.
16.   Utilisation des semences céréalières. Par ailleurs et afin de ramener les prix de
vente des semences céréalières certifiées et du "bon à semer" à des niveaux accessibles
aux agriculteurs dont la trésorerie a été fortement affectée, une s&ovention à l'utilisation a
été allouée (i) aux semences certifiées, de valeur égale aux aLugi±jentations des prix à la
production (respectivement 700, 500 et 500 DR/t pour le blé dur, le blé tendre et l'orge),
et (ii) aux semences "bonnes à semer" de respectivement 640, 520 et 480 DH/t pour le blé
dur, le blé tendre et l'orge. Ces subventions ont permis le maintien des prix à l'utilisation
de semences certifiées à leurs niveaux de la campagne précédente, respectivement à 3
910, 3.860 et 3.000 DH/t pour le blé dur, le blé tendre et l'orge. Les prix de vente
subventionnés des semences "bonnes à semer" ont été pour la campagne 1995/96 de.



8
respectivement 3.500, 3.860 et 3.000 DH/t pour le blé dur, le blé tendre et l'orge
(tableau 2).
Iableau2 2: Prix comparés des semences certifiées pour les campagnes 1994/95 et
1995/96 et prix des semences "bonnes à semer" (Dirham par tonne).
Campagne 1994/95                 Campagne 1995/96
"semences certifiées"     "semences certifiées"     "bon à
semer'
Prix à la   Prix de vente    Prix à la    Prix de vente  Prix de vente
production                 roduction   subventionné  subventionnd
Blé dur        3500    3_910             4200          3910         3500
Blé tendre     3450         3860         3950          3860         3200
Orge           2590         3000         3090          3000         2500
Au total les ventes ont concerné 71.400 tonnes de semences céreanlères voIé dur
27.000 tonnes, blé tendre 42.500 tonnes et orge 1.870 tonnes), certifiées ou "bonnes à
semer", collectées ou provenant du stock. Les volumes des ventes concernées par la
subvention à l'utilisation sont indiquées au tableau 3.
Tableau 3: Ventilation des ventes des semences céréalières subventionnées par catégories
pour la campagne 1995/96 (en tonnes).
Catégorie               Certifiées        "Bon à semer"
collectées
Blé dur                   6100               15500
Blé tendre                20200               6000
Orge
Le coût de la subvention à l'utilisation a été de 27,4 millions de DH. Les coûts du
stockage, du transport et du déclassement, ont été respectivement de 14,8, 11,5 et
2,4 millions de DH, soit au total 56,1 millions de DH.
La production céréalière d'automne pour la campagne 1995-96 est comparée à
titre indicatif à la moyenne des cinq années précédentes (tableau 4). La campagne a ainsi
pu bénéficier de la bonne pluviométrie enregistrée cette année-là (592 mm de pluies, soit
53 % supérieur à ce qui est considéré comme année « normale »).
Céréale                    Moyenne 1991-95            Campagne 1995-96
Blé dur                    12.6                       22.7
Blé tendre                 16.8                       36.5
Orge                       19.4                       38.3



Royaume du Maroc
Systècic d'Iuforîîataion ct dc Modélisalioin dlu secteuir lelevage (SIMEL)
Aninexe 1 : Degré de réalisation des actiosis identifiécs (1/2)
ACrE VITES                             OUTILS                                      ACTIONS A MENER                         DECRE D)E REAIUSATION
• Analyse du secteur             * SIMEL                                     * Esudes tic co#Ujonacn-e                              .  Réalisée
* Tableau de bord                           * Stratégiets à loag tanrie                           *  Réalisée
0 Politiques de dhhreloppeinent                       a  Réalisée
* Analyse des modèles de        a  Enquête sur les exploitationis de référence  * Formialisation du SII/EL                          *  Réalisée
production                    .  Outils caitograpbiques et banque de données   * Défilntiols des modlèles de production           .  Rcaliséc
* Simulations, projections          géoréférelicées                          a Développeîetet dle la capacité iiformiatiqle         .  Proposition d'un appui
démographiques et évaluation  *  Modèle LIVMOD                             * hMaîtnise dil nmodèle LIYMOD                             technique et d'un plan
d'irnpacts                                                                                                                            de formation en cours
. Mise en cohérence Tableau de                                               . Dévelopl>eîitslut ile prototypes îlewuntpernettee    a  Nouvelle version du
bord du secteur                                                              il éwhlier l'initérè de I 'ouil                         logiciel attendue (NV)
. AMise eN place des circuits d'information           *  NV
* Rapports pé-iodi qdes sur la mise en oemure du SIMEL
. Réalisée
Realisée (produit finial
dispomible)
* Demande en produits aniiiaux  *  Outil de prévision de la demande fourragère   *  Modèle de projection de la le:lîlille ell prodlitis  *  Demanide calculéc mais
(modèle de projection de la demande en     animaux                                                noni modélisée (NV)
produits animaux et modèle de corrélation
niveau de productiosi / besoins fourragers)    *  Moîlèle dle corrélation niveau dle prodiiction/oesoints  *  A réaliser après
fourragers                                             mn-Mi<a!ion i.des
systèmes de production
(NV)



Royaume du Maroc
Systèaitc  e'Iuiirntation ct dc Modélisatijoat du seccteur Elevage (SIMEL)
Aiuicxe 1: Degré de réalisations (les actionis iideliéiées (2/2)
ACTlVITES                               OUTIIS                                      ACTrIONS A MENER                         DEGRE DE REAI.ISATION
* Disponible alimentaire d'origine   *  Outil de prévision du disponible alimentaire   *  Fiuulisatio,s dui systèmnae l  ha'uluution des bilans  .  Réalisée
agricole                          d'origine agricole pour le secteur élevage   fouorrger-s
(nmodèle de corrélation production
céréalièreldisponible pour la consommnation
aninale>
Evalualion des reports de stock
CalcdIL diS reports dIe stoc                        *  Réalisée
* Disponible alimentaire d'origine   *  Outil de prévision de la production des  .  Fildalisation *le I 'éliule dle suivi dics parcours et des  *  Réalisée
pastorale                         pâturages (suivi biologique et de la         olutils te prrévision
produclion des parcours et modèle de
corrélation production i niveau des
précipilations pour les dix zones écologiques
retenues)
* Fomiulation des modèles de                                                 *  D4yini:ioiu (les iiodèles <le prothuciion             *  Réalisée
production                                                                  *  Etablisselnient dies paramètres dle productivité     .  Réalisée
NV 3 aclion conditionuée par la anise en place de la nouvelle version du logiciel LIVMOD



Annexe 4
ROYAUME DU MAROC
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES EFFETS DE LA SECHERESSE
(Prêt 3935-IIOR)
Mission de Conclusion du Projet
Juillet 1998
COMPOSANTE ROUTIERE
1.    Le programme de "Lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse"  comprend une
composante routière dont l'objectif était d'améliorer l'accès des populations rurales aux
services sociaux et de santé et de permettre le transport des aides en aliments, eau, engrais
semences, etc., de façon plus sure, rapide et économique. La réalisation des travaux
devait également permettre de compenser une partie des journées de travail perdues du
fait de la sécheresse.
2.    Le réseau marocain de routes rurales est estimé à environ 38.000 km, selon
l'inventaire établi par le consultant BCEOM  en 1994 dans la cadre du "Programme
d'amélioration et d'entretien des routes de rase campagne non revêtues". Les travaux
financés dans le cadre du programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse"
s'inscrivent dans le cadre du programme national de réhabilitation de 11.236 km
prioritaires du réseau de routes rurales. Ils s'intègrent particulièrement dans la première
tranche de 3.000 km de ce programme. La contribution de la composante routière du
programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse" a été estimée à 660,5 millions de
DH, dont le financement se partage de la façon suivante, la contrepartie marocaine
s'élevant à 20 %:
FADES (316/95)                  143.7 millions de DUI
Gouvernement Marocain                   35,9 millions de DH
BM (3935 MOR)                   376,7 millions de DII
Gouvernement Marocain                   94,2 millions de DH
Total                           660,5 millions de DH
3.    Dans la cadre de ce programme, il était prévu de construire (C) 883 km de route et
d'en aménager (A) 590 km pris dans la liste des projets; de la première tranche du
programme national.



4.    Les deux types d'interventions se définissent comme suit:
"A" / Aménagement : l'aménagement minimal portant sur des points durs à
l'origine des coupures les plus fréquentes et permettant la praticabilité quasi
permanente, au coût unitaire par kilomètre défini comme étant < 25.000 $EU;
"C" / Construction : route rurale dotée d'ouvrages nécessaires (essentiellement
ponts, buses, radiers et ouvrages de soutènement), d'une plate-forme de 6 m
protégée (si nécessaire) par une couche graveleuse d'apport de min. 0,15 m
d'épaisseur et éventuellement revêtue, au coût unitaire par kilomètre défini comme
étant < 70.000 $EU.
5.    En raison de l'affectation, à ce projet d'urgence, d'un reliquat de prêt du FADES, le
programme a été porté à 1.645 km répartis comme suit:
BM                  FADES                Total
Construction (C)    820,50 km           315,50 km           1.136,00 kmn
Aménagement (A)   185,37 km             323,50 km             508,87 km
Total             1.005,87 km           639,00 km           1.644,87 km
Les montants unitaires des projets réalisés ne dépassent pas 3 millions de $EU,
96 opérations ont un montant inférieur à 1 millions de $EU, et 16 seulement sont de
l'ordre de 1 à 3 millions de $EU.
ETAT D'AVANCEMENT
6.    Selon la DRCR, la totalité du programme prévu a été physiquement achevée, à
l'exception des chantiers supplémentaires financés sur le reliquat du FADES. Toute la
partie financée par la BM, au total 69 opérations, est achevée dont 89 % déjà payés, 38
des 47 opérations financées par le FADES ont démarré et 79,5 % ont été payées.
7.    Au 30 juin 1998, les informations provenant des Directions Provinciales de l'Equipement
(DPE) et collectées par la DRCR ne permettent pas encore de donner un état comptable définitif
du déroulement du projet. Ainsi, des chantiers physiquement achevés depuis parfois 2 ans - dont
celui qui déjà avait été signalé lors de la précédente mission (CT2461) - n'ont toujours pas été
liquidés sur le plan comptable. Les montants à liquider représentent le plus souvent de 3 à 5 %
des montants engagés. Les informations disponibles à la DRCR ne permettent pas de déterminer
si les sommes non payées sont consécutives à un maintien du cautionnement ou à des
réclamations des entreprises qui ont réalisé les travaux. La mission recommande que les
opérations soient liquidées rapidement afin que le bilan définitif exact du programme puisse être
tiré au plus vite.
8.    En effet, les montants à liquider sont parfois élevés (i.e. jusqu'à 31 %, pour le chantier
CT4501 de la DPE de Taza, pour un montant initialement engagé de 9 millions de DH) bien que
le dernier décompte ait été comptabilisé. Dans ces cas, et selon la DRCR, l'explication serait que



les montants réellement engagés sont inférieurs aux engagements comptables effectués par les
DPE mais au niveau de la DRCR tout au moins, le montant final du contrat n'est toujours pas
connu. La mission recommande que les informations dont dispose la DRCR soient mises à jour
rapidement et que les chiffres définitifs figurent dans le rapport d'évaluation final que le
Gouvernement marocain doit faire d'ici quatre mois.
9.    Les décaissements de la BM ont tous été effectués, le montant initial du prêt était de
42 millions de $EU (378 millions de DH), il reste un reliquat de 146.974 $EU (1.322.762 DH).
COÛTS UNITAIRES DE CONSTRUCTION
10.   Les coûts unitaires de construction ont été analysés p,ar la mission sur la base des
engagements initialement effectués par les DPE, ils ne reflètient donc pas exactement les
coûts unitaires réels que l'on ne pourra connaître que lorsque les marchés seront tous
liquidés. Toutefois, pour les chantiers dont le coût réel a eté modifié par rapport aux
engagements initiaux, les montants réels des travaux semblent être toujours inférieurs aux
engagements comptables pris au démarrage des chantiers. Les coûts unitaires réels
seraient donc inférieurs à ceux calculés par la mission sur la base des infornations
disponibles au 30 juin 1998.
Il.   Les montants des engagements effectués sont en moyenne 10 % plus élevés que
les estimations initiales des marchés avec des écarts variamt de - 16 % à + 35 %.
Cependant, sur l'ensemble des chantiers, financés par la BM et par le FADES, les coûts
unitaires de construction sont largement inférieurs à ceux convenus lors de la
planification de ce projet avec: 189.000 DH/km (21.000 $EU) pour les aménagements et
488.000 DH/km (54.000 $EU) pour les constructions. Les esitimations des coûts unitaires
de construction ou d'aménagement, fournies lors de la préparation du programme de
"lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse", ont donc été respectées, même si la procédure de
préparation et de passation des marchés a été allégée par rapport aux règles habituelles de
la BM.
BÉNÉFICES ET TAUX DE RENTABILITÉ ÉCONOMIQUE
12.   Pour des raisons de rapidité, face à la situation d'urgence, il avait été convenu,
dans la phase de préparation du programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse",
que la plupart des projets seraient sélectionnés parmi ceux identifiés comme prioritaires
par le programme national de routes rurales (parmi les 10 000 km). Ces projets ont tous
une rentabilité économique supérieure à 12 %, l'évaluation économique avait été faite à
l'aide du modèle HDM-Ill de la BM. Le choix des tronçons de route à construire ou à
aménager dans la cadre du programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse" avait
été effectué sur la base d'une analyse multicritères comprenant les critères suivants:
- interruptions de circulation par jours de coupure,
- importance administrative et sociale de la zone d'influence,
- potentialités de développement agricole dans la zone d'influence,
- présence de projets de développement intégrés,
- localisation dans les secteurs touchés par la sécheresse.



Pour certains projets, le marché avait déjà été contracté ou était en cours de négociation.
C'est une des caractéristiques de ce programme qui lui a permis de se dérouler
conformément aux prévisions et de répondre ainsi au caractère d'urgence de la situation
provoquée par la sécheresse.
13.   Les projets réalisés n'ont pas fait l'objet d'une autre évaluation économique. La
DRCR a par ailleurs entrepris de mener des études de post-évaluation en vue de vérifier la
pertinence des choix effectués antérieurement pour établir la liste des "10.000 km"
prioritaires et d'affiner éventuellement les critères de sélection des projets. Certains des
projets réalisés dans le cadre de ce programme de "lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse"
pourraient ultérieurement faire l'objet d'une post-évaluation de ce type.
14.   Une étude d'évaluation des impacts socio-économiques des routes rurales au
Maroc a été effectuée par la BM sur des aménagements financés et réalisés dans le cadre
du 4ème Projet Routier (Rapport No 15808-MOR; « Kingdom  of Morocco; Impact
Evaluation report, Socioeconomic influence of rural roads; Fourth Highway Project »
Prêt 2254-MOR).  Selon cette étude, les impacts économiques et sociaux de la
construction de routes rurales sont très importants. Les principaux impacts sont résumés
ci-après:
Impacts sur les services de transport
- Les coûts d'utilisation des véhicules ont fortement baissé,
- Les services de transport de passagers ont fortement augmenté,
- Les trafics ont plus fortement augmenté sur les routes aménagées que sur le reste
du réseau, avec une plus grande proportion de véhicules de plus grande capacité
donc plus rentables,
- Les temps d'accès aux marchés et aux services sociaux ou de santé ont diminué de
moitié.
Impacts sur l'agriculture
- Les productions agricoles des zones concernées par les aménagements routiers ont
fortement augmenté en volume, en productivité et en valeurs unitaires,
- Les meilleures conditions de circulation et les gains de temps ont permis la
substitution de cultures plus rentables, commne les fruits et légumes, aux cultures
traditionnelles, plus de 40 % d'augmentation,
- L'utilisation d'engrais a augmenté de 60 % dans les zones de projets grâce à
l'amélioration des circuits de distribution,
- Le nombre d'emploi non agricoles a été multiplié par six.
Impacts sociaux
- La fréquentation des centres médicaux par les populations touchées par les routes
aménagées a doublé,
- Le taux de scolarisation primaire est passé de 28 % en 1985 à 68 % en 1995,
l'amélioration des conditions de circulation ayant permis de diminuer le taux
d'absentéisme des élèves et de recruter davantage de personnel qualifié,
- Le taux de scolarisation primaire des filles a triplé sur la période étudiée.



Impacts sur l'environnement
- Les impacts sur l'environnement sont à la fois positifs et négatifs,
- Les impacts négatifs sont liés à un trafic routier plus important et donc davantage
de pollution et d'accidents de circulation, et à une activité économique plus
industrielle et donc une pollution plus grande de l'eau par les engrais et produits
chimiques,
- Les impacts positifs sont en partie liés aux changernents de modes de cultures et
d'élevage et notanmnent la réduction des formes d'agriculture traditionnelles
dommageables pour les sols, et pour une autre part par la plus grande utilisation de
butane à la place du bois de chauffage.
15.   L'évaluation économique des projets a été élaborée selon le modèle HDM-Ill,
conçu par la BM. Les sections de routes traitées ont été prises parni celles dont la
rentabilité, au taux de 12 %, était assurée, sans la prise eri compte des effets induits
présentés ci-dessus. On peut donc conclure à des bénéfices économiques et sociaux
largement positifs pour les projets financés dans le cadre de ce programme. Les impacts
négatifs sont ceux liés à l'environnement et inhérents aux projets routiers. Le nombre de
journées de travail employées à la réalisation des travaux s'est élevé à 420.000 (dont
340.000 pour les projets financés par la BM), ce qui ne compense qu'une part marginale
des journées de travail perdues du fait de la sécheresse (100 millions J/T).
LEÇONS À RETENIR
16.   A l'issue de ce programme, les principales leçons à retenir, pour la DRCR et pour
la mission, concernent la rapidité de la mise en oeuvre des projets grâce à l'adoption d'une
procédure allégée et décentralisée pour la sélection des projets et la passation des
marchés. Ceci a permis le lancement rapide des travaux pour les sections concernées et le
respect total des délais prévus initialement pour le déroulement du programme. Au 30
juin 1998, date prévue d'achèvement du programme, tous les travaux étaient
physiquement achevés. Cette procédure allégée n'a pas eu d'influence négative sur le
respect des coûts unitaires de construction. Les DPE/DRE ont bien suivi le déroulement
des projets. Seule la procédure de renseignement de la DRCR par les DPE/DRE
nécessite une amélioration sensible.  La mission recomrnande de renouveler cette
procédure pour les futurs projets de développement du réseau routier rural dans la mesure
où l'ampleur relative des travaux permet, en général, leur réalisation par des entreprises
locales.
17.   Dans le cadre de la mise en place d'un programme permanent d'intervention pour
lutter contre les effets de la sécheresse (« Drought Recovery Project »), le rôle des routes
rurales a été posé. L'impact essentiel de l'aménagement de routes a été (i) de réduire le
nombre de jour d'interruption de la circulation, (ii) de perrnettre une distribution plus
efficace et plus économique des produits de secours. Dans la mesure où il est toujours
préférable d'intervenir avant qu'après, la mission propose que la DRCR introduise un
critère de choix supplémentaire dans la grille d'analyse rnulticritères qui permet de
sélectionner l'ordre de priorité des projets à être pris en compte par le programme national
de réhabilitation des routes rurales. Cette grille d'analyse doit être révisée dans le cadre



de l'actualisation de ce programme. Il est donc possible d'ajouter un (ou des) critère qui
permettrait de favoriser les sections de routes qui desservent des zones à risque pour la
sécheresse.
STRATÉGIE D'ENTRETIEN DES ROUTES RURALES
18.   Selon la DRCR, les routes rurales construites dans le cadre du programme de
« lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse » sont intégrées dans le programme national de
réhabilitation des routes rurales. Lorsqu'elles sont revêtues, l'entretien de ces routes entre
dans le programme normal de maintenance de la DRCR. Cependant, pour les routes non
revêtues, la DRCR reconnaît devoir adapter sa politique d'entretien. Il existe déjà une
politique et une stratégie d'entretien pour le réseau revêtu et pour les ouvrages d'art, le
suivi de chacun étant assuré par un système de gestion spécifique. La DRCR travaille
actuellement à la conception d'un système de gestion analogue pour les routes rurales.
Dans le cadre du projet cité plus haut, le consultant BCEOM avait proposé une
méthodologie d'aménagement et d'entretien du réseau routier rural ainsi que des normes
d'entretien pour les différentes catégories de routes rurales. Ces normes avaient fait
l'objet d'une concertation entre les différents niveaux administratifs (échelons central,
provincial) et leur rentabilité avait été vérifiée à l'aide du modèle HDM-III. La DRCR
considère toutefois que ces normes doivent être validées par des analyses de terrain. Les
études de comportement des routes rurales aménagées depuis 1995, menées actuellement
par la DRCR, devraient pernettre de mettre au point une méthode d'inspection de ces
routes et de définir la politique d'entretien.
19.   Pendant la supervision de la composante «routes rurales>» du programme «de
lutte contre les effets de la sécheresse », la question de la responsabilité de l'entretien des
routes construites et aménagées à l'aide de ce programme avait été l'objet de discussions
importantes. Au cours des deux dernières années du programme, le Gouvernement a pris
les mesures pour lever les ambiguités restantes. Ces mesures ont consisté à classer les
routes en routes nationalés, régionales, provinciales ou non classées. L'entretien des
routes classées peut ainsi être pris en charge par le Fonds Spécial Routier (FSR). La
création du FSR avait pour objectif de mobiliser les fonds nécessaires à l'entretien du
réseau routier. La mission a pris note avec satisfaction que les routes du projet ont été
classées selon la nouvelle classification, leur entretien est donc à la charge du DRCR. La
durabilité des travaux financés dans le cadre de ce programme risque toutefois d'être
compromise si le budget alloué à cet effet serait insuffisant. La mission recommande que
la DRCR achève rapidement la mise au point du système de gestion et de suivi des routes
rurales, ce qui permettra de définir la politique d'entretien de ce réseau, d'établir les
nornes d'entretien selon les différents types de route, d'en établir un coût moyen et
d'évaluer les besoins financiers réels d'une politique d'entretien adéquate.
20.   Le budget annuel affecté au programme national de maintenance est de: 870 millions e
DH pour l'entretien périodique et 200 millions de DH pour l'entretien courant, financés à partir
du Fonds Spécial Routier et du budget général. Avec la récente augmentation des taxes sur les
carburants qui alimentent le FSR, son budget est de 1.270 millions de DH. La mission
recommande que la DRCR évalue le montant réel des besoins financiers nécessaires pour



assurer l'entretien du réseau actuel et du réseau en construction et demande au Gouvernement
marocain d'augmenter les ressources du FSR s'il serait insuffisant.
FINANCEMENT DES FUTURS INVESTISSEMENTS SUR LE RÉSEAU DE ROUTES RURALES DU
MAROC
21.   La DRCR lance une mise à jour de l'étude du « Programme d'amélioration et d'entretien
des routes de rase campagne non revêtues », réalisée par le consultant BCEOM en 1994. Cette
mise à jour concerne à la fois le contenu du réseau de routes rurales, établi à l'époque et la
hiérarchie des routes sélectionnées. Les questions posées sont notamnient: (i) le réseau
nécessaire est-il réellement de 38.000 kmn ou de plus ?, (ii) les routes retenues accompagnent-
elles suffisamment les politiques de développement agricole, touristique et minière du Maroc ?,
enfin, (iii) la hiérarchie retenue en 1994/95 est-elle toujours pertinente ? Cette démarche va très
probablement amener la DRCR à modifier les critères de sélection des nouveaux projets et donc
la liste hiérarchisée des routes prioritaires.
22.   Le budget annuel affecté au programme national de réhabilitation du réseau de routes
rurales est actuellement de 650 millions de DH ce qui permet de réaliser environ 1.300 km par
an. La DRCR pense que ce rythme est insuffisant, compte tenu, en plus des besoins de
financement pour l'entretien du réseau, non prévus au budget et des contraintes budgétaires.
Elle souhaiterait porter le rythme annuel à 3.000 km. La mission propose que la BM appuie
cette démarche et permette la réalisation annuelle d'un linéaire plus important, ainsi que la prise
en compte d'un budget adéquat pour l'entretien courant et périodique des routes rurales. A ce
jour, 3.000 km de routes rurales ont été réhabilitées ou créées, il est donc nécessaire de prévoir
un budget pour en assurer l'entretien.
23.   Compte tenu des avantages économiques et sociaux considérables induits par la
réhabilitation des routes rurales, la mission recommande que la BM appui la DRCR dans la
construction du programme national de réhabilitation du réseau de routes rurales du Maroc. La
DRCR souhaite porter le rythme annuel de réhabilitation à 3.000 km par an, mais pour en
assurer la durabilité il est nécessaire de mettre en place une politique d'entretien de ce réseau et
d'en assurer le financement. La DRCR doit dans un premier temps établir une politique et une
stratégie d'entretien du réseau routier rural et définir les besoins financiers correspondants.
L'actualisation du programme de réhabilitation doit également être menée par la DRCR en
prenant notamment en compte les politiques du développement agricole, touristique et minier du
Maroc, que le développement du réseau routier soutiendrait durablement. L'aide de la BM
devrait permettre d'accélérer le rythme de construction de routes rurales tout en réservant le
budget nécessaire à l'entretien des routes déjà construites.



LISTE DES PERSONNES RENCONTRÉES
M. Benzecri       Chef de la division de la programmation et du financement
M. Lahkim,        Chef du service du budget, division de la programmation et du
financement (Tel: 71 32 47)
M. Mehlil         Chef du service système d'information, division de l'exploitation et
de la sécurité routière (classification du réseau)
M. Imzel          Chef de la division de la planification
M. Brahmi         Chef du service évaluation des programmes, division de la
planification
M. Blili          Adjoint au chef de la division entretien
M. Louvaris       Chef du service des programmes et du suivi de la réalisation,
division de l'entretien
DOCUMENTS CONSULTÉS
a   The Kingdom ofMorocco, Emergency Drought Recovery Project
- Annexe Technique, Banque mondiale, août 1995
- Mémorandum et Recommandation, Banque mondiale, août 1995
- Mémorandum, Banque mondiale/SFI/AMGI, avril 1998 -
a   Rapport No 15808-MOR; Kingdom ofMorocco, "Impact Evaluation report,
Socioeconomic influence of rural roads; Fourthy Highway Project; Prêt
2254-MOR".
*   « Programme d'amélioration et d'entretien des routes de rase campagne non
revêtues », Ministère des Travaux Publics, de la Formation Professionnelle et de la
Formation des cadres; Direction des Routes et de la Circulation Routière; 1994
- Rapport 2.1: Stratégie d'aménagement et d'entretien; Méthodologie
- Rapport 4: Résumé Général de l'étude
- Guide pour l'évaluation économique préliminaire de la rentabilité
économique des projets d'aménagement des pistes
*   Quantification des effets de certains projets d'infrastructures du Ministère de
l'Equipement du Maroc, 1998
*   Programme National de Routes Rurales, Direction des Routes et de la Circulation
Routière, Ministère de l'Equipement du Maroc, 1998



MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION T'O TIIE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1. ONEP's COMPLETION REPORT
2. MAMVA'S STRATEGY TO MITIGATE THE IMPACT OF FUTURE DROUGHTS IN THE
LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
A VAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES



MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
APPENDIX C
MAP



12° ô'                                                                                                                           4
Tonge   -7                       Mediterranean Seo
WTetouen\
C q
E      AIH H-em              NIdon
MOROCCO                                                                                        Kso b,,
ATLAN    IC  Tetot    Oid Z Kenfroelh
Solei             dtoule 
Q CEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-MsfoL.oho ed ®Att;oI                                       . R,                                 t 
A T L A N T I C                                  /As                      <                                                                                           A 
O C E A N                                                         Be.gF                                     Ou-om          E Rmch                         s
",« « X~~~deS hç- S-h oSuTI Tc+s                                                                                                       32'-
%eteteeI#E rQslFr   \-O D.-t                   >   ,mu
Rsmsooire                                                         ' _-'6$ *Z     ,           Eol
l                             >          ~~~~~~~~~~                       ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tinghtir' 
-----i                                   n ~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
r _                     -        SECONDARY ROADS
Oijod   6       , ~ <            ) Te-nokht                         \                                        LOCALROADS
i~+RAILROADO
Il-,Zp W1~~~~~~~~jbTrooont                                                                              O
Ait elul       -             SOUTH                             Zogoto                                    G(    PROVINCE CAPITALS
ecsi*for th. meoec                                                                                                                 
k#em   m of hW gWo ia.tk                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
jolp. demeehmfm T oed                                /                                                                                                                O      TOWNS AND CITIES
ced tht 40unrbries sbome 
oethies am doeosti  ,mimlvontes                                                                                  -          0 e
pat     = of lb. rd Bau Oroup,                   / t) Iîzoî                           Toto           -  _     t      p pios 0°                                               ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS
cpoomey ethoy ~                                                                                         -'
unàJ ce temiJwy r g                                                                                                                                                          ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
frb bgkies,-                                                                                                                                                                 NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- Gtjelm;m  /    '        s^,                          ~                            _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
c                                                                            I l 28 -U
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~428'-n
O                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~84



