Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6673-MOR
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANE
AUGUST 8, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirhams (Dh)
U$1 = Dh 8.5
US$1 = French francs (FRF) 4.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNCA         National Agriculture Credit Bank
DCEC          Department of Roads and Road Transport
DDF           Forestry Department
DE            Department of Livestock, Ministry of Agriculture
DGH          Department of Hydraulics, Ministry of Public Works
DGR          Department of Rural Works, Ministry of Agriculture
DPA           Provincial Office of Agriculture
DRCR         Directorate of Roads and Road Traffic
DRTP          Regional Office for Public Works
FRSCL        Fixed Rate Single Currency Loan
GOM          Government of Morocco
MAMVA         Ministry of Agriculture
MTP          Ministry of Public Works
MSP          Ministry of Public Health
OCC           Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODEP         National Port Authority
ONCF         National Railways Office
ONEP          National Water Supply Authority
ONICL         National Cereals Office
ORMVA        Regional Irrigation Authority
RF            Special Fund for Road Maintenance
SONACOS    Moroccan National Seeds Marketing Company
SPTP         Regional Services for Public Works, MTP
UF            Unite Fourragere (each UF is equivalent to 1 Kg of barley)



MOROCCO - EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.  BACKGROUND   ........................................    I
General ...........................................    1
Nature of tLe Emergency  ................................    I
Impact of the Drought   ................................    I
Government's Response to the Drought .......................   2
Seeds  .........................................    3
Livestock ....................................... 3
Water Supply  ....................................    4
Other Public Works  ................................    4
Rescheduling of Debts   ..............................   4
B.  BANK  RESPONSE  AND  STRATEGY   ..........................   4
C.  DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION    .........................   5
Sustaining Livestock   ..................................   5
Feed and Water ...................................   5
Animal Health   ...................................   5
Agricultural Inputs ....................................    5
Rural Water Supply to Small and Remote Villages  .............   6
Water Supply to Small Centers and Villages .................   6
Rural Works - Roads  ..................................   7
Drought Preparedness ..................................  7
D. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  PLAN   .........................   9
Implementation Responsibilities   ...........................   9
Agricultural Inputs  .................................   9
Livestock ....................................... 9
Water Supply  ...................................    10
Rural Roads  ....................................    10
Procurement .......................................    11
Rural Works ....................................    I I
Animal Feed and Seeds  .............................    I I
Disbursement  ......................................    12
Audit  ...........................................                                                  12
Monitoring and Evaluation  ..............................    12
Supervision Plan  ....................................    12
List of Working Papers in Project Files   .                   ..........................    13
Map  ......................................................    14
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Morocco in July 1995, comprising
Mmes[Mess;rs. T. Sinha (Principal Operations Officer and Mission Leader), I. Tsakok (Senior Economnist), A.
Bichara (Senior Irrigation Engineer), M. Gress (Procurement Specialist), C. de Haan (Livestock Advisor), and F.
Le Gall (Consultant).  Contribution to the Appraisal mission was also made by Mr. F. Dauphin (Agronomist
FAO/CP), and by Mmes. C. Gad and L. de Georgio for document preparation.  Ms. S. Creger was  responsible
for the processing of the final Grey Cover Report. Messrs. M. Wilson and D. Ritchie are the Division Chief and
the Department Director respectively for the operation.






TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. BACKGROUND
General
1.        After the remarkable growth of the agricultural sector in the late 1980's, triggered
by the reform programs introduced by the Govemment in 1985 and by the impact of irrigation,
Morocco is experiencing difficulties in its agriculture in the 1990's due to frequent droughts. The
droughts of 1992 and 1993 had seriously affected the economy, and before agriculture had fully
recovered, it was hit even harder by the 1994/95 drought, one of the worst of the century. The
emergency nature of the drought and its effects to the agricultural sector in particular and to the
economy in general are discussed below.
Nature of the Emergency
2.        The rainfall pattern for 1994/95 season was erratic. Although the rains were normal
in September/October 1994, they suddenly declined in November 1994, when only about a third
of normal precipitation was recorded. Because of this drop only about 60% of the usual cereal
area was sown. There were no rains in December 1994 and January 1995. This resulted in
considerable losses in rainfed crops sown in November 1994, and hindered the cultivation of
additional areas in December 1994.
3.        The rains during the following months were also erratic. About 25 % of the average
rains were recorded in February 1995. While between March 1995 and May 1995, there were
some rainfalls in a few areas especially in the Oriental region, they were too late to be of much
use to the rainfed crops. Not only was the rainfall pattern erratic, but the total precipitation was
also very low. Total precipitation until the end of May was about 50% of normal. In some
areas deficits of over 60% were recorded. This lack of rainfall has resulted in the 1995 drought
whose effects are analyzed in the following paragraphs.
Impact of the Drought
4.         The occurrence of a major drought in late 1994/95 has been specially devastating
because the rural areas were already weakened financially by the previous droughts. In 1992
and 1993 agricultural output had already dropped by 36% and 6%, respectively. Following
normal crops in 1994, the agricultural GDP declined again in 1995 by 45%. The impact of the
drought was therefore particularly severe and has affected practically the entire country, with
a minor exception in the Oriental region.
5.        The severity of the drought is being felt mostly in predominantly rainfed areas and
in the traditional livestock production sector. Cereals and pulses which occupy the bulk of the
rainfed areas are the hardest hit crops. Of the 5 million ha normally cultivated under cereals,
only 3 million ha were sown in 1995, and of the latter 1.3 million ha were completely lost. The
remaining 1.7 million ha provided only a meager production of about 0.9 million tons, based
on a low yield of about 0.5 ton/ha. Total cereal harvest for 1995 is estimated at 1.6 million tons,
i.e. 17% of the 9.4 million tons harvested in 1994, or 29% of the average annual harvest of the
last five years. Even this meager harvest would have been unattainable if it were not for the
contribution of 0.3 million ha of irrigated wheat.



2
6.         The livestock subsector, which is dominated by traditional production systems, is
also suffering from the drought because of a lack of sufficient vegetation on the rangelands and
a shortage of drinking water. The 1995 drought has had a major negative impact on livestock
feed availability. This deficit is primarily in cereal areas (north-west part of the country) where
livestock is dependent for cereals and their by-products (40-70 % of the feed requirement
depending on the production system). In the more pastoral areas (steppes), the negative impact
of the drought is less severe because overall reduction in range production is estimated at -35 %
compared to a non-drought year. The total forage availability is estimated at 9 billion Unite
Fourragere (UF), and the estimates of the deficit range between one and two billion UF. The
livestock population, which has not yet fully recovered from the reductions caused by 1992 and
1993 droughts, is now exposed to a risk of considerable decline of populations and productive
capacity.
7.         The irrigated areas are also affected by the drought as a result of the reduced inflow
of water in the reservoirs. At the end of May 1995, the rate of rain water inflow to the 20 main
reservoirs amounted to about 2,350 million m3 for the 1994/95 cropping season, which is only
28% of the average annual inflow. Reduction of water allocations for irrigation ranged from
30-80% of the normal level depending on the specific situation of each reservoir (Working paper
1, Appendix 1). The crops affected by the reduction in irrigation are the industrial crops such
as sugar cane and sugar beets, and the fodder/feed crops such as maize.
8.         The impact of the drought in the rural areas is specially severe as the bulk of the
population depends on rainfed farming, and traditional livestock rearing. Most of the country's
poor are found in the rural areas. They have limited assets and food reserves. Therefore they
become the first victims of drought. Not only have the people foregone their annual crop
production, but also their other main source of income from agricultural employment. About
100 million work days are estimated to have been lost in 1994/95 in the rural areas due to
drought. Another serious difficulty is the shortage of safe drinking water for both human and
livestock consumption. This problem has induced some people to temporarily abandon their
villages to travel to cities where water can be found. Even important cities like Tanger and Taza
are suffering from lack of water and are currently supplied with water by sea by tankers which
haul the water over long distances.
9.         The drought has also increased the level of indebtedness of rainfed farmers who
borrowed for agricultural production purposes. Lack of harvestable crops has resulted in their
inability to repay loans as planned, and this in turns put the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(CNCA) in serious financial difficulties as its capital adequacy ratio will decline. The CNCA
is now obliged to reschedule the repayment of farmers' loans and for this it will require
substantial resources. It also creates problems for the farmers as they will not have the capacity
to take new loans and invest in agriculture. Under Bank assisted Rural Finance Project (Loan
3662-MOR) a calamity insurance scheme is being developed to meet such problems in the
longer-term. Also as a part of Bank's supervision of the loan, possible restructuring of the
project to meet the current emergency is being discussed.
Government's Response to the Drought
10.        The Government's response to the 1995 drought was first of all to establish a
commission known as Permanent Commission Interminist6rielle, chaired by the Prime Minister,
to prepare and take charge of the emergency drought recovery program. At the regional level



3
the Provincial Vigilance Commissions have been activated. The recovery program defined by
the government consists of four major activities.
*  provision of livestock feed and seeds;
*  water supply to people and animals;
*  public works for income generation and building assets; and
*  debt rescheduling of CNCA.
11.        Seeds. Availability of seeds will be crucial for the start of the 1995/96 agricultural
season and the MAMVA is preparing a program to increase the availability of cereal seeds,
mainly wheat and barley. The program includes (i) provision of a drought premium to certified
seed producers to ensure maximum delivery to the seed company (the premium is not transmitted
to seed users); (ii) procurement of seeds of good quality ("bon a semer") from farmers having
used certified seeds (wheat) or good quality seeds of local cultivars (barley) so as to increase
seed availability; (iii) provision of a similar premium to farmers for "bon a semer" seeds; and
(iv) imports of barley seeds from countries with similar climatic conditions. Some 70,000 tons
of seed, sufficient to sow about 0.6 million ha, are expected to be procured under the program.
12.        Livestock. The severe drought experienced in 1981-82 resulted in massive
destocking of livestock: 25 % of the cattle, and 39% of the sheep were sold or died, with dire
consequences for owners as prices fell drastically, and for the economy, as it took over 5 years
to restock to previous levels. The lessons of this experience have been used by the Government
to devise a strategy to reduce losses to an acceptable level. The worthiness of this strategy was
tested during the 92-93 droughts, during which losses were indeed much reduced, at least for
sheep. The strategy includes estimation of available feed resources, which is regularly updated,
and a simulation of herd/flock composition and numbers as well as of the future livestock
production as a result of different levels of intervention. Based on the estimated requirements,
measures are taken to import feeds, and to reduce the price of imported and locally produced
feeds through exemption from import duties and by providing transport of feed to remote
locations. Prices of feeds and meats are regularly collected on the main markets to monitor the
impact of these measures.
13.        The Government intends to supply one billion UF of livestock feed. If no action
were to be taken, there would be a further reduction of the national sheep and cattle population
similar to the 1981-82 drought (para. 12). This fall in animal numbers would be in addition to
the considerable decline already experienced in 1992 and 1993. The decline would seriously
erode valuable genetic stock, and deplete reproductive capital. This would thus undermine the
earning capabilities of a large number of small herders, who depend on their flocks and herds
for their livelihood. Therefore, the GOM's drought relief and recovery program for the
livestock sector, the Programme de sauvegarde de cheptel, consists of a short-term program
to prevent drought - induced animal losses so as to:
(a)    Maintain the income of a vulnerable group of the rural population; and
(b)    Preserve the country's livestock genetic resources;
The program (para. 10) would fund the cost of partially closing the feed deficit, supplying water
(para. 20) and dispensing veterinary treatments (para. 21) to arrest a further reduction of the
national herds.



4
14.        Water Supply. The drought has resulted in critical potable water shortages in
different parts of the country. Not only has the yield from springs and ponds been depleted, but
some shallow wells have dried up and deep aquifers have receded due to drop of water table by
as much as 10 meters. Despite this, aquifers can still supplement surface water resources during
drought if wells are deepened and/or new ones are established. These works have been adopted
as part of the drought recovery program in the rural areas and in major centers such as Tanger
and Taza, where wells and springs have dried up. The works will generate income in the
drought stricken areas.
15.        Other Public Works. Execution of public works for creating employment in the
rural areas, while building useful assets for the future, is one of GOM's strategy to provide rapid
relief to the drought affected population. Within the Ministry of Public Works an emergency
drought recovery program has been drawn up from the medium to long-term roads and water
development programs. These works include improvement and maintenance of rural roads and
establishment and rehabilitation of water supply sources and distribution systems.
16.        Within the MAMVA, employment creating activities have been prepared within the
Directorates of Forestry and Rural Works. In the forest area silvicultural treatment of forests
and improvement of forest roads have been incorporated in the drought recovery program. With
such works the MAMVA intends to reduce its backlog of silvicultural works and at the same
time to generate income in the rural areas (about US$11.6 million). Under the MAMVA,
substantial rural works are also foreseen to take place in destoning of agricultural lands,
rehabilitation of medium-scale irrigation projects and repairs of small-scale traditional irrigation
schemes (about US$ 73.6 million).
17.       Rescheduling of Debts. An important element of GOM's strategy against the
effects of drought is to support the rescheduling of the debt of farmers affected by the drought.
The CNCA has been particularly strained by the inability of farmers to repay their loans because
of the droughts in 1992 and 1993, where some debts had to be cancelled and others to be
rescheduled at lower interest rate. The extra burden placed on CNCA by the 1995 drought is
considered by GOM as extremely heavy, and GOM is considering an allocation of
Dh 1.65 billion (US$ 194 million) to CNCA to assist in the rescheduling of farmers' debt. The
proper mechanism and quantum of assistance is being discussed under the Bank-assisted Rural
Finance Project (Loan 3663-MOR).
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
18.        The Bank has been supporting the agricultural sector since 1965. Twenty nine loans
and credits have been made to the agricultural sector. Of these, eight were irrigation projects
aimed at reducing the country's dependence on the drought prone rainfed agriculture. These
irrigation projects were generally successful, and have assisted the country mitigate the negative
effects of the recurring droughts.  Of the four rainfed agricultural development projects
supported by the Bank (Loans 1602, 1848, 2082, 2217 - MOR) three had satisfactory outcomes
as measured by their economic rates of return at completion.
19.        While the Bank's support to the agricultural sector in general and to the water sub-
sector in particular is continuing, its positive response to the call for assistance in the rural areas
during one of the worst drought of the century, would be consistent with country assistance



5
strategy, which emphasizes natural resource management and assistance to the rural populations.
This drought is also affecting the economy because of the negative impact on current account
and fiscal deficit, both of which have deteriorated. Bank's strategy is to provide financing for
a portion of the Government's drought recovery program in critical areas of the agricultural/rural
sector in order to speed up recovery. The agricultural sector is important in terms of its
contribution to the GDP (23%), Government revenue, foreign exchange earning (30% of
exports) and employment (40%). Bank's assistance will focus on areas that will build assets and
restore productivity, hence facilitate recovery of the agricultural sector and rural economy.
Further, Bank involvement will be important in that it will assist GOM to develop the country's
capacity to meet future drought emergencies.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Sustaining Livestock
20.        Feed and Water. To maintain productivity of the important livestock sector,
Morocco normally imports only about 264,000 tons of feed (less than 5% of total annual
requirement), since it has ample local production of barley and also availability of rangeland
forage. However, because of drought, local production of feed has fallen by more than 35%
(para. 6). There is a serious danger that the national livestock inventory will be severely
depleted and rebuilding of household flocks take several years. Therefore Morocco intends to
increase feed imports to limit destocking to a maximum of 10 percent. The project will provide
for the imports of about 500,000 tons of incremental feed imports, of which about 350,000 tons
will be Bank financed. Alternative sources of financing are available for the balance. The
project will also improve water availability for livestock by providing about 150 new water
points and providing about 10 water tanker trucks and about 100 mobile water tanks.
21.        Animnal Health. This program consists of the vaccination against enterotoxemia
and anti-parasitic treatment and the provision of vitamins and minerals to the most critical part
of the livestock population most affected by the drought and of the highest importance for herd
reconstitution after the drought, i. e., the sheep and local cattle breeding herds. Vaccination
against enterotoxemia and anti-parasitic treatment will be carried out on an estimated 4 million
heads of sheep and goat. This action is implemented by the Livestock Department. Priority is
to be given to the most drought-affected areas, as well as to the remoter areas where the delivery
of animal health services is normally low.
Agricultural Inputs
22.        The drought has drastically reduced supplies of certified seeds for cereal cultivation
during the next agricultural campaign (para. 11). The project will provide for acquisition of
about 70,000 tons of barley and wheat seeds. Local distribution will be facilitated through 350
selling points of the national seed company (SONACOS).
Rural Works - Water Supply
23.        The main objective of this project component is to provide as quickly as possible
safe water supply to the most-drought affected areas in the country, as well as providing the



6
rural population with an additional source of income, largely through the provision of labor to
contractors.  Relatively high per capita investment costs in the rural areas and budgetary
constraints have thus so far directed most of the investments in the sector to the densely
populated urban areas. In rural areas, only 14% of the population has access to safe drinking
water. Government policy is to increase this figure to about 80% by the year 2010.
24.        The MTP through its DGH and the ONEP have identified in each province those
localities where drought effects are most serious. The identification was based on surveys
carried out in late 1994 and early 1995. These surveys provided a sound basis for the
formulation of emergency programs. For example, the DGH identification process was based
on a number of criteria, each of varying weight, such as available resources (quantity and
quality), sanitary conditions, access to water, population, social infrastructure and vulnerability
to drought.
25.        All large aquifers, as well as a number of smaller ones, have been studied by MTP
with the assistance of foreign and local consultants and the physical and chemical characteristics
of the aquifers identified. As all the proposed new wells and boreholes will be for potable water
supply, the pumping of water from aquifers will be limited. In order to ensure that any new
well or borehole will be a productive one, the implementing agencies such as the ONEP and
DGH will systematically drill exploratory boreholes (max. 6 inch in diameter) at new locations
(for 20% of the wells and 100% of the boreholes) prior to final drilling.
26.        Community participation in the proposed rural works will be ensured through direct
employment of the beneficiaries in all civil works contracts. These contracts have and will
stipulate in their articles, a requirement whereby local contractors are required to employ the
local population and, in the case of rural roads, to use labor intensive techniques as far as
possible. The estimated work days to be generated by the rural works component of the project
will be in the range of 3.50 million.
27.        Rural Water Supply to Small and Remote Villages. For small and remote
villages, the project will finance the construction of approximately 1,850 new wells (average
depth 35 m, unit cost about US$108,000), the drilling of about 650 boreholes (average depth 175
m, unit cost about US$400,000), and the rehabilitation of about 500 existing springs (unit cost
US$56,000) The project will also construct about 170 rain water harvesting points in rural areas
(unit cost US$150,000) in locations where groundwater resources are not sufficient or of poor
quality. Pumping equipment and hydromechanical/electrical equipment for boreholes and some
of the wells will also be financed by the project. These proposed works will be targeted at the
worst-affected areas, especially in the North-West and the North-Central regions of the county
(total cost US$88.6 million).
28.        Water Supply to Small Centers and Villages. In the most drought affected areas,
the projept will improve potable water supply to a number of small centers and villages. To
improve potable water supply in 41 small centers covered by ONEP: 240 new equipped wells
will be constructed, four wells will be deepened, four wells will be equipped with pumping
equipment, 16 new boreholes will be drilled and equipped and about 71.7 km of new pipelines
will be installed (total cost US$6.50 million).  In addition, the project will finance the
improvement of water supply (cost US$29.1 million) to: about 150 villages, by tapping existing
water supply pipelines; another 50 villages, by drilling new boreholes and wells; and 15 small



7
centers, by installing additional pipelines. These villages and small centers are also covered by
ONEP and are located in the worst-affected areas.
Rural Wbrks - Roads
29.       In 1995, the GOM adopted a national program of construction of 10,000 km of
rural roads over a seven year period starting in 1996. Several studies have been carried out
under Bank-assisted Highway Sector Project (Loan 3168-MOR) to facilitate the program, in
particular the study of unpaved rural roads improvement and maintenance. Economic studies
done by Direction des Routes et Circulation Routiere (DRCR) show high economic rates of
return ranging from 33 to 80% for this type of rural road improvement activities. Specific
cost/benefit calculations for each proposed rural road has been prepared. The technical studies
and surveys have reviewed about 38,000 km of unpaved rural roads and identified a sequence
of upgrading requirements. About a third of these roads (10,000 km) have been identified as
a national priority program. .In order to ensure an adequate start for this priority program, the
project will finance the upgrading of about 883 km of existing tracks to a low-volume road
standard in conformity with a slightly modified type REFT (Route Economique a Faible Trafic)
of the MTP, i.e., 3.30 m of platform composed of natural gravel over approximately 7.00 m
formation with 2 shoulders of 1.00 m each. In addition the proposed project will finance the
rehabilitation of about 590 km  of existing rural roads to all-weather standards.  The
improvement works will include earthworks to correct bad spots, construction of drainage
infrastructure and laying a base/surfacing layer of natural gravel. All the country's 54 provinces
will be included, but a large part of the works will be in those provinces that have been hardest
hit by the drought. The average unit cost for the upgrading is around US$70,000/km, while the
average for rehabilitation will be around US$25,000/km (total cost US$84.4 million).
30.        These technical specifications and unit costs (para. 29) are in conformity with those
already defined for the on-going Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project (Loan 3901-
MOR). For example, average base costs for the rehabilitation of rural roads under the previous
project ranged between US$22,500 and US$96,100/km respectively, and the unit costs for the
proposed project is within this range. Local contractors are capable of executing most of this
component (except for rehabilitation of roads at remote locations which will be carried out by
force account) over the next 18 to 24 months as sufficient construction capacity exists due to
current recession. About 15% of the program has been executed by June 30, 1995.
Drought Preparedness
31.         As droughts in Morocco are occuring with increasing frequency, there is a growing
recognition that drought preparedness needs to be improved to mitigate the effects of future
droughts more quickly and systematically. To this end, the project will assist GOM to establish
an institutional framework capable of responding promptly by preparing and managing cost
effective relief and emergency programs. Also, the acquisition of technical skills that can
maximize the efficiency of water use, conserve soil moisture and produce more drought resistant
crop varieties will be facilitated.
32.        Some drought preparedness activities are taking place within different Government
agencies. For instance, the Directorate of Hydraulics has a program on how to distribute water



8
for different uses in case of drought. Possible interventions during drought are also prepared
by the different units of MAMVA and Agricultural Research has started producing varieties of
crops, in particular barley, that resist drought. Recently, a remote sensing unit has been
installed within MAMVA to provide an early warning on the evolution and growth of major
crops in order to forecast production. These activities need to be further strengthened and better
coordinated. For this purpose a monitoring unit has been set-up under the Secretary General of
MAMVA. This unit also provides secretarial support to the Inter-Ministerial commission on
drought, and could act as the focus for future drought preparedness activities.
33.         The project will strengthen the drought monitoring and remote sensing units in
MAMVA to become fully responsible for the national drought preparedness, by providing
technical assistance (TA), and goods. The TA will assist in designing a suitable institutional
framework for drought preparedness including its system of operations and linkages with the
relevant institutions. Office equipment including computers, printers and photocopier as well as
materials such as satellite imagery will be provided by the project for the remote sensing and
monitoring units in MAMVA. The total cost of this component will be about US $ 2 million.
34.        In the context of a national drought preparedness strategy, the project will assist in:
i) preparitig strategies that mitigate the adverse effects of droughts; ii) developing an institutional
framewoik best suited for drought preparedness; and iii) up-grading the existing embryonic early
remote sensing unit in MAMVA to become an efficient national crop forecasting system.
35.        With regard to managing livestock during droughts, the Livestock Department has
already initiated the development of a long-term strategy. The key thrusts of this strategy, which
need to be further elaborated in a master plan are:
(a)    The development of early warning and market information systems;
(b)    Increased flexibility in destocking in times of drought and in restocking
after droughts. This will include the identification of incentives for early
destocking, stratification of the production through the promotion of
permanent or temporary feedlots for intensive fattening, improvement of
the capacity of the market, processing and storage infrastructure and
transport facilities.  Such selective destocking, to some extent already
practiced by the producers, increases overall long-term productivity and
efficiency of range use;
(c)    The introduction of insurance and saving schemes for herders, especially
those in the more fragile areas;
(d)    The overall improvement of animal health and production advice, and for
the rangeland areas the introduction of more sustainable range management
through the strengthening of herders organizations;
(e)    Environmental monitoring by strengthening the ecological monitoring
(vegetation cover, bio-mass production, ratio annual/perennial vegetation
in rangelands, vigor of plants, soil structure, etc.) recently initiated by the
Range Division of DE, and linking that closely with the feed inputs and
herd/flock structure; and



9
(f)    Socio-economic  monitoring  by  analyzing  the distribution  patterns
(characteristics of the beneficiaries, their production systems, herd/flock
size and household size) of a representative sample of feed distribution
centers (both formal and informal).
36.        The national strategy will emerge as a result of consultations and discussions with
the main ministries and other concerned institutions including the ministries of Agriculture,
Public Works, Finance, Public Health, Population, Interior, Incitation Economique as well as
local authorities, the CNCA, Agricultural Research and the universities. Based on these
consultations, as well as on experience gained in other countries, a national strategy for drought
preparedness will be formulated. The TA provided under this project will assist GOM in
making greater use of remote sensing technology and modelling to improve the quality the
strategy.  It will also assist in developing further the institutional framework for drought
preparedness.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
37.        The proposed project will be implemented under the supervision of a high level
Inter-ministerial Commission chaired by the Prime Minister with key Ministers as its members,
including those for Finance, Agriculture, Public works, Public Health and Interior (para 10).
The Commission has already been constituted and has met several times. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MAMVA) will provide a Secretariat for the Commission. The Secretariat has
already been constituted with adequate staff. A special supervision and monitoring unit has been
set up to follow the progress of the EDRRP directly under the MAMVA's Secretary General
(para 33). The unit will also be responsible for monitoring of all components of the project
except rural water supply and rural roads components, which will be managed by the Ministry
of Public Works (MTP) and ONEP. The unit will also be responsible for drought preparedness
component of the project (para. 32 to 36).
Implementation Responsibilities
38.        Agricultural Inputs. The National Seed Company, (SONACOS), will implement
this component under the supervision of MAMVA, and will procure seeds. SONACOS will
follow GOM's standard procedures of quality control and certification under the supervision of
MAMVA. Procurement actions have already been launched and will be completed by September
1995. Seeds distribution will start October 1995 and be completed by December 31, 1995. The
seeds and their distribution will be locally financed. Local distribution will be facilitated through
350 selling points of SONACOS.
39.        Livestock. The National Cereals Marketing Agency (ONICL) is responsible for
coordination and overall monitoring of livestock feed imports into the country. ONICL has long
experience in this field and is guided by MAMVA. Alfalfa, bran, and dehydrated sugarbeet
pulp will be imported. In order to assure delivery to remote rural areas during this drought,
GOM has agreed to cover ONT and ONCF's cost of transportation to 210 existing retail centers.
The local distribution will be carried out by farmers' cooperatives, to ensure that needy farmers
are given access to the feed. GOM will share 50% of the cost of mixed feed, whose ingredients
will largely be imported. Government will cover part of (about 10%) the cost of other feed, by
paying for local distribution. This is justified because farmers' incomes have been severely



10
affected by the drought. The higher cost sharing for mixed feed, which is relatively new to
Morocco, is justified only for the short term until farmers become familiar with higher benefits
of this type of feed, which includes vitamin additives and is therefore better for animal health.
The Bank will finance the direct import cost of about 350,000 tons of feed. In addition, the
MAMVA's Livestock Directorate (DE) will be responsible for procurement related to the
provision of the water . DGR will assist DE on technical matters, including supervision of
works. Operation and maintenance will be carried out by farmer's association.
40.        Water Supply. ONEP will be responsible for the implementation of the water
supply component to be financed by the Bank. ONEP was established in 1972 in an effort to
mobilize managerial, technical and financial resources for water production. It is owned by
GOM and operates under the supervision of the MTP. It has the status of a financially
autonomous public enterprise managed in accordance with principles applicable to a commercial
undertaking. In addition, to ensure water supply to the Regies (autonomous municipal utilities),
GOM has entrusted ONEP with the construction of water supply systems in 167 small towns and
centers The improvement of water supply in 41 of these centers are to be supported through the
proposed project.
41.        Study and development of water resources for all users is the responsibility of the
DGH-MTP. Management responsibilities, procurement activities and supervision of construction
for water supply to towns and small centers/agglomerations are vested with the ONEP (on behalf
of the respective municipalities). There are carried out by ONEP which bills its customers for
the volume of water sold and charges a fixed rate fee to cover meters rentals and connection
maintenance. ONEP is required to fully recover all O&M costs, in addition to partial recovery
of investnents costs.
42.        Rural Roads. The MTP through its DRCR will be responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of the rural roads component. DRCR is only responsible for
general planning, coordination and overall supervision. The regional and provincial offices
(DPTP and SPTP) are largely autonomous and will program all road works, award contracts,
and manage and supervise the project works. The field organization consists of 40 provincial
and 7 regional offices. This decentralization will enable efficient implementation of the rural
roads component.
43.        Consultations and coordinations with the local communities are essential in
formulating roads component of the project and for assuring adequate maintenance. These
procedures have been agreed under Loan 3901. Similar procedures will also be adopted under
the proposed project.
44.        Proper maintenance of project roads is essential. The Special Fund for Road
Maintenance (RF) was created in December 1988 to provide funding for road maintenance. In
1995, RF has been increased substantially, through higher fuel taxes, to reach Dh 1,090 million.
An understanding has been reached under Loan 3901-MOR that GOM will give high priority
to funding maintenance.



11
Procurement
45.       The proposed procurement arrangements for the project are depicted in Schedule
B to the MOP. Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
(a)    Rural Works. The rural works contracts comprise rural roads and water
supply works in rural areas. The rural roads are dispersed throughout
remote locations and are difficult to package for ICB. Contract amounts
for rural roads will range from US$0.3 million to US$2.0 million, and bids
will be launched by the Provincial Directorates in accordance with NCB
procedures. It is anticipated that small contractors will carry out such
works. Bids for rural water works will be launched by ONEP following
NCB procedures. Such contracts are for new wells or deepening of
existing wells, boreholes, supply and installation of water pipes, and civil
works for pumping stations. Given the relatively low cost and wide
dispersion of these works, no foreign contractors will be interested to bid.
Equipment contracts (mainly pumps and hydro-mechanical equipment) will
also be contracted by ONEP. Such equipment is readily available in
Morocco and many foreign suppliers are represented in the country.
Equipment procured through such contracts valued at US$500,000 or more
each will be awarded through ICB. Contracts for equipment ranging in
size from US$50,000 to US$500,000 will be awarded under NCB
procedures up to a maximum in aggregate of US$1.5 million. This will
result in a relatively low percentage of the contracts awarded under the
Bank financing being subject to Bank's prior review. However, this is
considered acceptable  due to the urgency, and the Bank's recent
experience with this type of procurement in the country. The Bank has
extensive experience with working with the GOM and specifically ONEP
and the MTP. Local procurement procedures are generally acceptable to
the Bank. Hence the Bank's prior review will be for works contracts of
US$3 million and above and goods contracts of US$500,000 and above.
There are some small rehabilitation works in remote locations, which up
to a maximum in aggregate of US$3.8 million, may be carried out under
force account, since past experience has shown that contractors are not
interested in such bids.
(b)    Animal Feed and Seeds. The main imports for animal feeds are barley,
bran, alfalfa and dried sugar beet pulp.  Contracts not exceeding
US$5.0 million will be procured in accordance with local commercial
practice, which is well established and are acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts above US$5.0 million will be awarded through ICB. This
approach has been selected in view of the emergency nature of the project
and the fact that the supply of livestock feed through established private
sector channels is the most cost efficient approach to meet local demands.
Seeds are locally procured and will be locally financed. In the event that
seeds are imported, they will follow same procedures as feeds.



12
Disbursement
46.        The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (a) 80 percent of expenditures for rural
works; (b) 80 percent of expenditures for equipment, imported or procured locally; and
(c) 100 percent of the CIF price of livestock feed and seeds imports. In order to make prompt
payments to contractors and importers/suppliers, the Bank will advance funds for the
establishment of a revolving fund in Morocco and replenish the fund on a regular basis. The
Special Account will be established with an initial deposit of Dh 150 million (equivalent to
US$18 million), which will cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures over a period of four
months, and takes into account the quick disbursing nature of the project. Applications with
appropriate documentation, if required, covering the use of the fund should be submitted when
approximately half of the maximum allowed amount in the fund has been disbursed.
Audit
47.        Bank Al-Maghrib will be responsible for maintaining all records and transactions
for the livestock feed component. The Ministry of Public Works and ONEP will be responsible
for ensuring the project accounts are maintained for the rural roads and water components
respectively. All accounts will be audited within six months after the end of the Borrower's
fiscal year. The audits will be performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
audits will include a separate opinion with regard to claims submitted to the Bank on the basis
of SOEs.
Monitoring and Evaluation
48.       The monitoring unit under the Secretary-General, MAMVA (para 33 and 37), will
be responsible for monitoring overall project implementation. The unit is already functional and
detailed monthly progress reports are already being prepared. The unit will conduct an
evaluation of the project. The evaluation will measure both the physical progress of the project
as well as its impact especially with regard to recovery of crop production and preservation of
livestock.
Supervision Plan
49.       Because of the short but intensive nature of project implementation, the Bank will
provide three supervision missions during the first year of the project. The missions will
include a livestock specialist, a road engineer, a water engineer, an agronomist, and a remote
sensing specialist with in-depth experience in drought monitoring and planning of mitigation
measures. The total supervision resource during FY96 will be 29sw. A mid-term review will
be launched early in FY97, followed by another supervision mission in March 1997. Resource
requirement in the second year will be 20sw followed by l5sw in FY98.



13
MOROCCO - EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
List of Working Papers in Project Files
Working Paper No.              Title
I                  Economic and Social Effects of the Drought.
II                 Agricultural Components
II-A               Seeds Supply
11-B               Livestock Production
III               Water Supply
IV                 Rural Roads
V                  Improving Drought Preparedness
VI                Project Cost Tables






12'                                                                              8
MOROCCO                                                                                                               K- .                                                                                                 I -
S.uk IA                                                                          LOCAl ROADS
This~~~~~~K                                                                                               n rea  ha bee   prpae  Toraudnas  2                         /                                    \""4""  ALOD
bdhCeNT W tCEN  PT
Cirbt...  us of The World Book                                                                          ORIENTAL
Oroup.TheJo detareoatuo  usedd                                                                lXf} 
J. ) eHf _-mlfrra  J.d,d
32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                            Fk,/ Slh B                                                                                          /_ 
El KpTeWa ook Dp                                                                                         EE     O           lDO I METES         3
Essc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nf                                                             ouni-       T      iEahrch,d../ 
ersdarsereent ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         t ur                  Im;pnnu atiu                                      f  dKe  
such~~~ ~ ~ ~ boundaries.a                                                                                                                            
/  _l                                                                                     t                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  MAJOR ROADS
INTERNATIOSECONDARY RO UDS
haadrg~<ITzahS                                                                                                                                        LOCAL ROADS
rhis mp h-s ISt   rpoe aouar1- P~-d                                                                                                                      z IIg RLRhD
exuieyfo th.  o;eec                                                   RMlol;                                                                          °°°       /     r2~f                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS
infemol-usedof The World Bonk                                                          As                                                             /                                              0      NATIONAL CAPITAL
iao.-I he      Th.o W.in ob-ksuse
artw  th.  oourdone    sh-w                                                                                                                                                                                     0          TOWNS AND CITIES
trl Hhns moo do r-of Imp , op the .                                                                   L                                                                                                                       t
port of The World Ban G,-p,                                         qiTirnit                            (;} Tat.                         #      ~    rOS'¢'                                                            ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS
eldorsemeof or cetoc  f                                                                                                                                                                                              ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
,-h b d'                                                                                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_ 9 J   /  /                                                                                                 _    _   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
t Guetmim                /                             ° ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50  100     150
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~KJLOME.TER5
coO_a °28°_o
8 l                                                                                                                                                   28' 









-L
:               :  : . Im



