Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3935 MOR
                                  Loan Agreement
                       (Emergency Drought Recovery Project)
                                      between
                                KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                  AND DEVELOPMENT
                               Dated August 30, 1995
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3935 MOR
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1995, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank,
Page  2
dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (b)  "French Franc" and "FRF" each means the lawful currency
of the Republic of France.
    (c)  "Dollar Loan Tranche" means the amount specified in
Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
    (d)  "French Franc Loan Tranche" means the amount specified
in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
    (e)  "Loan Tranche" means either the Dollar Loan Tranche or
the French Franc Loan Tranche.
    (f)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period which
commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in each calendar year.
    (g)  "DH" or "dirhams" means the currency of the Borrower.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement: (a) an amount equal to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), and (b) an amount equal to two hundred forty
million French Francs (FRF240,000,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dirhams a special deposit account in its
General Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of a Loan Tranche
not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Page  3
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of each Loan Tranche in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the
Borrower shall:
    (a)  prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
    (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the
               audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
Page  4
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for the
               fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account or payment out of
               the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
               examine such records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                               Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and External
Investments of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministry of Finance and External Investments
         Rabat
         Kingdom of Morocco
         Cable address:                          Telex:
               MINISTERE FINANCES                36936 M
               ET DES INVESTISSEMENTS EXTERIEURS
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                          Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.                   82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
Page  5
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                     KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                     By /s/ Mustapha Cherkaoui
                                                 Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                              Middle East and North Africa
                                    SCHEDULE 1
                      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                  Amount of the     Amount of the
                 Loan Allocated    Loan Allocated             % of
                 (Expressed in     (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollars)       French Francs)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works    28,000,000        134,400,000        80% of local
                                                        expenditures
(2) Equipment         500,000          2,400,000        80% of local
                                                        expenditures
(3) Feed and Seed  16,500,000         79,200,000        100% of foreign
    imports                                             expenditures
(4) Unallocated     5,000,000         24,000,000
                   __________        ___________
      TOTAL        50,000,000        240,000,000
                   ==========        ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $20,000,000 may be made on account of payments
Page  6
made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts not exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent for feed
and seed, $3,000,000 equivalent for works, and $500,000
equivalent for goods, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                    SCHEDULE 2
                            Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to alleviate the impact of
the drought through measures to regenerate productive capacity
in crop and livestock production, improve water supply and
basic health services, and to enhance institutional capacity
for drought management.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Agricultural Inputs
    Acquisition of about 70,000 tons of seeds for agricultural
production.
Part B:    Livestock Production
1.  Acquisition of about 500,000 tons of mixed-feed for
livestock.
2.  Provision of water through the construction of about 150
water points and the acquisition of about 10 water tanker
trucks and 100 mobile water tanks.
3.  Sanitary prevention for livestock through anti-parasite
treatment and vaccination.
Part C:    Water
1.  Construction of about 1,850 wells in rural areas, about 650
bore holes, about 170 rain harvesting points, rehabilitation of
about 500 springs, and acquisition of equipment therefor.
2.  Supply of drinking water to about 56 rural centers and about
250 villages.
Part D:   Rural Roads
    Construction of about 900km of rural roads, and
rehabilitation of about 600km of rural roads in the most
affected areas.
Part E:    Improving Drought Preparedness for the Future
1.  Strengthening of the agricultural monitoring system to put
in place an anti-drought process and monitor agricultural and
environmental impacts of droughts.
2.  Strengthening of the program of seed production in irrigated
areas in order to achieve seed production during drought.
                               * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                               SCHEDULE 3
               Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
Page  7
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of a Loan Tranche
withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest
Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of each Loan Tranche shall be divided
into Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each
Disbursed Amount of a Loan Tranche outstanding from time to
time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche withdrawn and
outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at
a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b) From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of
the Dollar Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof, interest
on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
          (i)  Dollar Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) Dollar Fixed Total Spread.
    (c)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche withdrawn and
outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at
a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  PIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) PIBOR Total Spread.
    (d) From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of
the French Franc Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof,
interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal
to the applicable:
          (i)  French Franc Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) French Franc Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
Page  8
    (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is
withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is
withdrawn:
          (i)    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)   minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                 such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                 interbank offered rates, or other reference
                 rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                 Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                 allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                 loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                 such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (c)  "Dollar Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche, the equivalent of the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for
value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)  "Dollar Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche:
          (i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)   minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                 the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                 below (or above) the London interbank offered
                 rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                 deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                 borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                 single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                 it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)    the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                 Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (e)  "PIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is
withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in French Francs for value the first day of such
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment
Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
    (f)  "PIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is
withdrawn:
          (i)    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
Page  9
          (ii)   minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                 such Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris
                 interbank offered rates, or other reference
                 rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                 Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                 allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                 loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                 such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (g)  "French Franc Fixed Base Rate" means, for each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche, the
equivalent of the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in French Francs for value on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (h)  "French Franc Fixed Total Spread" means, for each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche:
          (i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)   minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                 the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                 below (or above) the Paris interbank offered
                 rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                 deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                 borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                 single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                 it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
          (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                 Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Dollar Fixed Base Rate and Dollar Fixed Total
Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan
Tranche, and of PIBOR Base Rate, PIBOR Total Spread, PIBOR
Fixed Base Rate and PIBOR Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche, promptly
upon the determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of each Loan Tranche
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for
Page  10
such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be
payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed
Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of any Disbursed Amount of
either Loan Tranche would, pursuant to the provisions of said
paragraph 1, be payable after January 15, 2011, the Borrower
shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount of a Loan Tranche shall have
been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                     Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A:   General
    Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
          Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  National Competitive Bidding
    Works estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less per
contract, and $70,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
    Goods estimated to cost between $50,000 and $500,000
equivalent or less per contract and $1,500,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
2.  Commercial Practices
    Feed and seed imports estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $5,000,000 per contract and $41,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured in
accordance with established commercial practices, acceptable to
the Bank.
3.  National Shopping
    Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000
Page  11
equivalent per contract and $2,600,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.  Force Account
    Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the
Guidelines, and costing $4,000,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out
by force account in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    (a)  With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (b)  With respect to each contract for equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (c)  With respect to each contract for feed and seed
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to DH 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
Page  12
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                 deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                 from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                 Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                 have requested and as shall have been shown by
                 said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; and
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
Page  13
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
