Page  1
December 30, 1998
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
Morocco:
Loan Number 3935-MOR Emergency Drought Recovery 
Project Amendment 
to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement dated August 30, 1995 entered into between the 
Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the “Bank”). We also refer to the Bank’s letter, dated December 29, 1998 
concerning the interest rate determination implications resulting from the replacement 
of the French Franc currency by the Euro currency effective January 1, 1999. 
By the present, the Agreement is hereby amended as follows: the term “PIBOR”, 
wherever it appears in the Agreements, is replaced by the term “LIBOR”. Therefore, the 
terms “PIBOR Base Rate” and “PIBOR Total Spread” appearing in Schedule 3 to the 
Agreement shall henceforth read “LIBOR Base Rate” and “LIBOR Total Spread”, 
respectively. In addition thereto, the phrase “Paris interbank offered rate” appearing 
in Sub-paragraphs 3 (a) and 3 (c) of Part B in said Schedule is modified to henceforth 
read “London interbank offered rate”, and the phrase “Paris interbank offered rates” 
appearing in Sub-paragraphs 3 (b) (ii) and 3 (d) (ii) of Part B in said Schedule is 
modified to henceforth read “London interbank offered rates”.
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Borrower’s 
authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating the 
corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at 
your earliest convenience.  A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for the Kingdom of Morocco’s official records.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date it has been fully 
executed by the parties thereto, and its provisions shall apply as of the first Rate 
Fixing Date and Interest Period and Interest Payment Date falling due after January 1, 
1999.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Country Director 
Maghreb Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Page  2
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
Date: April 20, 1999
