Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3236-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 10.0
Rs 1  =  US$0.10
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -  June 30
GLOSSARY
ADB    -    Asian Development Bank
CIDA   -    Canadian International Development Agency
CTI    -    Carrier Telephone Industries
KfW    -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
PCO    -    Piblic Call Office
STD    -    Subscriber Trunk (long-distance) Dialing
TIP    -    Telephone Industries of Pakistan
T&T    -    Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                     US$40 million equivalent.
Terms:                      Twenty years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% p.a.
Project Description:        The project-s objectives are:  (a) to promote and
support institution-building in the telecommunica-
tions sector, specifically with regard to adequate
commercial accounting procedures and development of
managerial expertise; (b) to provide improved
standards of service throughout the existing net-
work; (c) to meet a portion of the unmet demand at
existing centers and extend facilities into new
areas; and (d) to extend and improve international
communications. The project would consist of:
(a) provision of local network facilities for an
additional 52,000 subscriber lines; (b) provision
of toll-ticketing equipment for about 240,000
subscriber lines; (c) an increase of about
2,000 circuits on existing subscribers long-
distance dialing routes; (d) installation of a new
1,800-channel microwave system; (e) expansion of
subsidiary routes providing an additional 500
circuits to existing and about 200 new small
exchanges, and provision of an additional 300 public
call offices in rural areas; (f) extension of
telex and telegraph facilities; (g) provision of
three additional wideband microwave system channels,
an earth station, and a new international gateway
exchange; (h) installation of a coaxial cable to
expand and improve international communications;
(i) replacement of local cable and exchange
equipment and rehabilitation of a coaxial cable;
and (j) provision of computing facilities for
subscribers billing and information processing,
and related consultant services.
A possible risk to the project could be shortfalls
in necessary government funding. To minimize this
risk, the Government would ensure that adequate
annual budget allocations would be provided, in a
timely manner, for project implementation.
This document haJ a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofikial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
US$ million - --
Local Network                       32.9       29.1        62.0
Long Distance Facilities            53.5       56.7       110.2
International Facilities            12.4       18.3        30.7
Telex and Telegraph                  9.5        8.8        18.3
Replacement and
Rehabilitation Works               7.0        6.4        13.4
Computer Facilities and
Related Consultancies              0.9        1.5         2.4
Total Base Costs                   116.2      120.8       237.0
Price Contingencies                 36.0       14.0        50.0
Total Project Cost                 152.2      134.8       287.0
Less local duties and
taxes                             48.0         -        48.0
Total project cost net
of duties and taxes              104.2      134.8      239.0
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign       Total
US$ million ------
Bank                                  -        40.0        40.0
ADB                                   -        29.0        29.o
Germany                               -        30.7        30.7
Japan                                 -        35.1        35.1
T&T (cash generation)              152.2        -         152.2
Total                  152.2      134.8       287.0
Estimated Disbursements:                     FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
…-----US$ million -----------
Annual                     3.1    10.7    16.2       8.0      2.0
Cumulative                 3.1    13.8    30.0    38.0    40.0
Rate of Return: 31%
Appraisal Report: No. 345la-PAK, dated March 1, 1982
Map: IBRD 15689



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$40 million equivalent to help
finance a fourth telecommunications project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
2.        The Asian Development Bank (ADB), Federal Republic of Germany and
German suppliers, and the Government of Japan are expected to participate in
financing the project with loans or credits of US$29 million, US$31 million
and US$31 million equivalent, respectively. In addition, about US$4 million
equivalent has already been arranged through a Japanese suppliers- credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
3.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 20, 1981.
4.        The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY81 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a.
This growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial
production well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
11% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. and in
industry by 8.1% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible. Fol-
lowing a number of other favorable developments, including the conclusion of
an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a short-term debt re-
scheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium
and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the balance of payments
are under reasonable control and the short-term economic outlook has consider-
ably improved.
5.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy changes
introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the recovery.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President-s Report No. P-3129-PAK (Second IDBP Project)
dated October 7, 1981.



- 2 -
6.        In recent years the Goverrment has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer
subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separating it from
the development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in
crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
7.        In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Reforms have been initiated to the agricultural research
system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The Government
has formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural policy based on the
main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated agriculture which emphasizes
the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery system through the
rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling of water deliveries to
the farmer; and to expand the role of the private sector, for example,
through the promotion of private tubewell development in sweet groundwater
areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early
stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
8.        Major changes have been made during the past four years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural pro-
cessing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and direct
cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports which. will
improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has
been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale
private investment projects. There is also evidence of increased interest by
investors in larger projects, especially in the cement, chemicals and ferti-
lizer subsectors.
9.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has



- 3 -
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed
of the management and organization of the public sector, and the performance
of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these
studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the num-
ber of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors
have been established which have helped to increase autonomy at the enterprise
level. Some public sector units which have little prospect of improved
financial performance have been closed down. These measures, together with
additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled technical personnel through
salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer subsector, have helped to
increase production and capacity utilization substantially in the public
sector. In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further
public disinvestment is being considered on a case-by-case basis.
10.        The higher level of economic activity during the past four years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless,
the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social constraints
to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass consump-
tion, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expiration at
the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member countries
of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending contributed to the
growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commitments under the
ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to
further increases in development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the
increased revenues, the overall budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and
the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
11.       The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 and
FY81. Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in
FY79, rose by an average of 22% p.a. during the two years as a result of the
continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases announced in the
FY80 and FY81 budgets, and intensified efforts to improve tax collections.
Although political developments outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned
expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on total spending; the growth
of public expenditures was limited to 11% p.a. Both development and adminis-
trative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies other than those on farm
inputs were held to the previous year-s level in nominal terms. These
restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in
surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to increase the avail-
ability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 and FY81, the
overall budget deficit averaged 5% of GNP and bank financed budget deficit
of 1.6% of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s.
12.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, have also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases have, however, been partly offset by a



- 4 -
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$947 million or 3.1% of
GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since program-type
assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as
well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined through FY79. However,
a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a marginal increase in net
long-term capital inflows and substantial extraordinary receipts from OPEC
countries eased the external financing problem in the second half of FY80
and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to about US$750 million at
the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks' imports.
13.       A number of favorable developments substantially improved the
balanice of payments situation in FY81. These included the conclusion of an
Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the ILMF in November 1980; a positive
response from aid donors to the country's improved economic performance
resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement with
bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981. In addition, both merchandise exports
and migrant remittances expanded by over 20%. As a consequence of improved
performance on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange
reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during the year;
the latter is the equivalent of about two months worth of import of goods
and services.
14.       The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently
improved economic performance over the present decade and bring about a modest
improvement in the living standards of its population. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to improve per-
formance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
and the problems of resource mobilization.
15.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth
has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available inputs,
especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists
for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to
give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which



-5-
would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of
increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
16.       Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufac-
turing production, though recently better, remain well below those attained
in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for nearly
40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of
inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign
markets, while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by the
inadequate performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have
been some recent improvements in the output and profitability of public
enterprises, these improvements need to be carried further through appropriate
reforms to remove distortions in pricing, improve performance criteria and
incentives to managers and to further rationalize the sector. To assist and
further encourage the recovery in private investment and to maintain the
increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among other things,
an adequate supply of local and foreign financing, both for investments and
current inputs, and the more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other
infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure
that the Government's incentive system supports those industries in which
Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more analysis is needed to determine
levels of effective protection for formulating an appropriate industrial
development strategy for the 1980s. The recovery in industry also needs to
be reinforced by improvements in labor-management relations and by further
measures to rehabilitate the textile industry and generally to increase
exports.
17.       The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector has
been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign private
companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other
reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of
existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. A number of
issues relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization
will need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
18.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have



- 6 -
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs to be given not only to increased allocations for family
planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve
the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the substantial
migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some
extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this
clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the
long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem;
a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of
implementation.
19.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments,
a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the
economy, particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national savings are
substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low
for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development.
The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public
spending, improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private
investment will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and
savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for
restraining private consumption through appropriate price adjustments and
selective duty increases on non-essential imports. While the Government has
made several price increases in the recent past, further adjustments will
directly reduce the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on
spending and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in
tax administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
20.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries..
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer
would help to moderate import growth considerably.
21.       As described above, Pakistan's policies and economic performance
have improved considerably over the past several years. Improvements in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in



- 7 -
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more con-
ducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade performance.
While Bank long-term forecasts show that foreign borrowing on commercial as
well as concessional terms would be necessary to support economic growth of
5-6% p.a., recent policy initiatives have substantially improved Pakistan's
creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA
borrowing.
22.       At the end of FY80, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding
the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$5 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion
to OPEC and US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1980, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 13% and in external debt service was 11%.
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are sus-
tained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12% in 1981,
should remain roughly constant through 1985 and, even assuming substantial
commercial borrowing, should rise only slowly thereafter to about 17.5% in
1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
23.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31%
for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
24.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
25.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land



- 8 -
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
26.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has also included assistance to three large fertilizer
plants, as well as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 14
Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$73.6 million, of which US$63.9 million
was by way of loans and US$9.7 million by equity participations (these are
shown in Annex II). About US$38.6 million remains outstanding. The enter-
prises assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products,
two in textiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement,
steel, fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is
also a shareholder in PICIC.
27.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
28.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's
major cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance
efforts, a project has been appraised for Lahore. A second water supply
project in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for
education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level
training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
29.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of September 30 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project
approval, which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment
of consultants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by
some public utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.



- 9 -
30.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
water supply, population planning, oil and gas development, irrigation and
flood rehabilitation, and minor irrigation and agriculture development in
Baluchistan. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for
the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange
component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
31.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
The Sector
32.       Pakistan has faced many special problems in developing an integrated
economy. These include the country's history, with the need to create a new
national capital and adequate lines of communication with the provinces; the
economic and other changes that followed the independence of Bangladesh; the
distances separating the population centers; and the wide dispersion of
administration, agriculture and industry. These problems highlight the need
for adequate telecommunication facilities. By providing a means of rapid
communication, telecommunications form part of the infrastructure required for
national development and for ensuring effective use of available resources and
expertise.
33.       With a large part of the population dependent on agriculture for its
livelihood, adequate telecommunications are of high priority for arranging
sales of agricultural products and coordinating the transportation and timely
delivery of fertilizer and other inputs. Further expansion of Pakistan's
industry, which involves the coordination of a series of operations which are
highly dependent on adequate telecommunication facilities, is important to
economic growth and improvement of the balance of payments. The availability
of adequate telecommunications services is also vital for the efficient use of
transportation facilities.
34.       All local, long distance and international public telecommunications
services in Pakistan are provided and operated by the Pakistan Telegraph and
Telephone Department (T&T). As in most countries, there are independent
telecommunications networks operated by the military, police, railways, gas
and power companies, and civil aviation for their own use. These organiza-
tions also lease facilities from T&T where appropriate.
35.       Telephone Industries of Pakistan (TIP), established in 1952, manu-
factures telephone and telegraph switching equipment, telephones and tele-
printers. Its factory located in Haripur employs about 3,800 people. Carrier



- 10 -
Telephone Industries (CTI), established in 1969, manufactures carrier multi-
plex equipment and small capacity radio systems at Islamabad and employs
about 400 people. Both TIP and CTI are commercial corporations in which the
Government of Pakistan is the majority shareholder; Siemens of Germany is
also a partner. The electromechanical technology on which the TIP factory
is currently based, is outmoded and high cost. The Government intends to
adopt electronic digital switching as the future standard for Pakistan, and
proposals for local manufacture of such a system have been received from
international suppliers. Pending the introduction of this new technology -
which is expected to take 2-3 years - further installation of electro-
mechanical equipment would be generally limited to existing exchanges.
36.       Until 1979 T&T operated as a government department under the control
of the Ministry of Communications with a number of its managerial and operating
functions performed by other government authorities, e.g., financial control
exercised by the Ministry of Finance, accounting in addition to auditing
performed by the Auditor-General, personnel matters controlled by the Public
Service Commission, procurement by the Supply Department and building design
and construction by the Public Works Department. This was not conducive to
efficient operation of T&T on a commercial basis with adequately defined
accountability and responsibility.
37.       From the inception of the Bank Group's involvement in the telecom-
munications sector in Pakistan in 1968/69, it has encouraged reorganization
of the sector in order to enable T&T to operate on an efficient commercial
basis and provide for adequate financial and operational autonomy. The
Government decided in 1969 to reorganize T&T as a government corporation,
but the process was delayed firstly by the political disruptions in 1970-197 2
and later by the Government's misgivings about the proposal in view of the
shortcomings in the performance of other semi-autonomous boards and public
corporations. To meet this objection, the Bank indicated that it saw no
difficulty in public telecommunications services continuing to be operated
as a government department provided T&T was organized to operate effectively
along commercial lines with adequate autonomy in its operations, full control
over its accounting functions, and with its own trust fund separated from the
Government Consolidated Fund.
38.       Based on the Bank's suggestions, the Government agreed to reorganize
T&T along the above lines, and an implementing order was issued in May 1979.
A number of functipns were immediately transferred to T&T, and a T&T Fund was
established as a separate account within the Government Consolidated Fund
and made effective in July 1981. All T&T revenues are credited to the T&T
Fund and all operating expenditures plus capital expenditures within T&T's
annual budget are charged against this fund. T&T can therefore pay these
capital expenditures without going through the Ministry of Finance, which
was the case before the fund's creation. Responsibility for the accounting
function and staff was transferred to T&T as from January 1, 1981, and long-
outstanding suspense accounts, receivables and government equity investment
in T&T were identified in early 1981. The 1979 reorganization and subsequent
action provide a satisfactory framework for future operation of T&T on a
commercial basis. More remains to be done, however, to define responsibili-
ties, improve lines of command and coordination, and to establish an efficient
data processing system which would provide the information necessary for
adequate financial and operational management.



Present Telecommunications Service
39.       As of June 30, 1981, Pakistan had about 282,000 direct exchange
lines (DELs) and 358,000 telephones serving the population of about 83 mil-
lion. The telephone density of 4.2 telephones per 1,000 people 1/ is low by
world standards and far too low to meet the information flow needs of the
economy. Despite the deterrent of long waits (usually measured in years) for
the installation of services, the waiting lists for new connections total
200,000 applications. Such lists, moreover, are only maintained in communi-
ties that have already been provided with telephone service and therefore
understate the real demand in the country as a whole. There is also an
imbalance of telephone development between urban and rural areas; in some
parts of the country such as Baluchistan, parts of NWFP and the northern
areas, telephone development has been hampered by the distances and terrain
involved, as well as limitation of resources.
40.       In mid-1981, there were 784 telephone exchanges providing public
telephone service and 1,160 public call offices (PCOs) serving rural com-
munities. Of the many thousands of communities in Pakistan, only about 1,800
had access to telephone service; in about 50% of those communities, this
consisted only of PCOs. Of the 282,000 subscribers lines, 153,000 (or 54%)
are concentrated in the three main centers of Islamabad/Rawalpindi, Lahore
and Karachi, with a further 68,000 (or 24%) in 12 other larger towns and
urban areas and only 61,000 (or 22%) in small towns and villages.
41.       Although maintenance standards are reasonably satisfactory, con-
gested conditions and repeat call attempts result in poor service in most of
the main city networks. This is mainly because of under-provision of sub-
scribers' connections caused by inadequate expansion of the network, which
has resulted in heavy use of the available telephones and a rapid increase
of subscriber busy conditions and repeat call attempts, together with overload-
ing of the exchange equipment. There has also been a serious under-provision
of private automatic branch exchange facilities. Although conditions on many
of the main long distance and international routes have so far been generally
satisfactory, the local network congestion is now also affecting access to
these routes. Also, the main arterial microwave route linking Karachi, Lahore
and Islamabad is now reaching the limit of its presently installed capacity.
On certain of the older routes and exchanges, existing facilities are inade-
quate and transmission quality and reliability are frequently poor.
42.       The major constraints on the improvement and development of the
sector are: (a) limited foreign exchange funds available for telecommuni-
cations development; (b) the time needed to finalize arrangements for the
introduction of a modern electronic switching system which would, when
installed, offer both service and economic advantages; and (c) general
government budgetary constraints.
1/   This can be compared to the telephone density in some other low-income
countries: India 3.8, Sri Lanka 5.7 and Kenya 10.5.



- 12 -
Sector Strategy and Goals
43.       Taking into account the role of an effective and efficient tele-
communications system in the economic growth of the country, the Government's
objectives for the sector are to: (a) provide satisfactory standards of
service throughout the network and improve the reliability of long distance
facilities through alternative routing; (b) extend facilities into new areas
of socio-economic significance with particular reference to developing agri-
culture and industry, expanding mining operations and meeting the needs of
administration and social services; (c) extend facilities in and between
areas already served in order to more adequately meet the growth in demand;
(d) create an adequate flow of information within T&T, to improve data
processing and accounting systems and to identify management and functional
responsibilities; and (e) introduce modern systems and standards while, if
possible, maintaining or extending domestic manufacture, thus achieving effi-
cient, reliable and economic development of services while conserving foreign
exchange and providing additional employment.
Bank Group Participation
44.       A telecommunications sector study was undertaken in the mid-1960s
with UNDP financing and with the Bank as Executing Agency. This study
provided the basis for appraisal of a first telecommunications project in
June 1968. The first project (Credit 145-PAK) was approved in March 1969 and
was followed by two more projects (Credits 186-PAK and 510-PAK) in May 1970
and September 1974, respectively. In all, the Association has provided a
total of US$61.8 million for development of the telecommunications sector.
45.       The three IDA Credits, which have been fully disbursed, have
enabled the telephone system in Pakistan to be expanded by about 140,000
direct exchange lines. Exchange service was extended to 514 additional
centers and 1,580 additional PCOs were provided, of which 870 serve rural
communities. The projects established the foundation for a modern trunk line
network. A notable item was the provision of a microwave radio system on
the backbone route connecting Karachi, Faisalabad, Lahore, Rawalpindi and
Islamabad. This facilitated provision of subscriber trunk (long distance)
dialing (STD). Parallel with the IDA-assisted projects, international
facilities were expanded and improved through the provision of a satellite
earth station near Karachi funded by a CIDA credit. Provision of telex
facilities at nine major centers and other development of both long distance
and local facilities have been undertaken under other bilateral funding and
credits, particularly those made available by Germany for the import of
materials for the local factories.
46.       The Project Performance Audit Report 1/ on the first and second
projects (Credits 145-PAK and 186-PAK) highlighted the considerable input that
the two projects had made to the expansion of Pakistan's telecommunications
service between 1969 and 1976. While physical works were implemented with
some delays and cost overruns, a number of important institutional objectives
1/   Report No. 1629, dated June 15, 1977 (SecM77-505).



- 13 -
were achieved, and other changes suggested by the Bank - including some
reorganization of T & T - were being gradually implemented. The Audit
concluded that, while the Bank had contributed significantly to improve-
ments in the telecommunications sector, there was much still to be done
by way of effecting necessary changes to strengthen the development of
a sound indigenous industry. The Project Performance Audit Report 1/ on
the third project (Credit 510-PAK) commented on the substantial achieve-
ments of the project, though with a delay of about two and a half years
in project execution. A major reason for this delay was the inadequate local
funds available for telecommunications development due to general budgetary
constraints (see paragraph 42) though T&T itself has generated resources in
excess of its requirements for operations and development. The Audit also
commented on the delay in implementing a new sectoral organization which would
enable T&T to operate more efficiently on a commercial basis (paragraphs 37-38
above), and on the detrimental effects of the inability of the system to meet
demand more fully. The Bank Group was considered to have played an important
role in Pakistan-s telecommunications development and in the improvement of
services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was prepared by the Pakistan Telegraph and
Telephone Department, Ministry of Communications, and was appraised in
February 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington in December 1981;
the Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Mohammad Kaleem, Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Communications.
48.       Attached as Annex III is a Supplementary Project Data Sheet.  The
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Fourth Telecommunications Project"
(No. 3451-PAK dated March 1, 1982) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
Telecommunications Development Program
49.      The Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department (T&T) has prepared a
new four-year development plan to cover the period July 1982 - June 1986. In
addition to this plan, T&T's overall 1982-86 development program contains a
large carryover of works started under the previous plan. The new plan has
been divided into two separate phases, taking into account limitations on
available foreign exchange financing, the decision to adopt electronic
digital exchanges as the future standard for Pakistan (see paragraph 35),
and the need to avoid proliferation of systems during the transition period.
Phase I, which would be supported by the proposed Bank loan, includes local
exchange and network development in FY83-84 as well as certain high priority
works over the entire four-year plan period. Phase II will cover local
network development after the proposed new electronic switching system has
been identified and selected.
1/   Report No. 3276, dated December 31, 1980 (SecM80-965).



- 14 -
Project Objectives
50.       The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing its
strategy of achieving maximum efficiency in the development and operation of
the telecommunications system. The project would comprise Phase I of T&T's
FY82-86 plan and would have four main objectives:
(a) to promote and support the institution-building objectives
of the sector through assisting T&T to implement adequate
administrative procedures and strengthen the management on
both the financial and technical side;
(b) to provide improved standards of service throughout the
existing network;
(c)  to meet a portion of the unmet demand at existing centers
and extend telecommunications facilities into new areas of
economic significance, particularly to assist the develop-
ment of agriculture and industry and meet the needs of
administration and social services; and
(d) to extend and improve essential international communications.
The project would consist of:
(a) provision of local network facilities over the period
July 1982 - June 1984 for an additional 52,000 subscribers-
lines;
(b) provision of toll-ticketing equipment for about 240,000
subscribers- lines;
(c) provision of up to three additional wideband microwave
channels, each providing ultimately for 960 circuits, on
the main arterial microwave system linking Karachi, Lahore
and Islamabad;
(d) installation of a new 1,800-channel microwave system
linking Karachi (through Quetta and Dera Ismail Khan)
with Peshawar;
(e)  an increase of about 2,000 circuits on existing subscribers
long-distance dialing routes;
(f) expansion of subsidiary routes providing an additional 500
circuits to existing and about 200 new small exchanges
(some replacing existing PCOs) and provision of an additional
300 PCOs in rural areas;
(g)  provision of an earth station and a new international
gateway exchange at Islamabad to serve the northern
part of the country;
(h) provision of a coaxial cable from Lahore to Wagah (located
on the Pakistan-Indian border) to expand and improve inter-
national communications;



- 15 -
(i) extension of telex facilities to provide for some 1,900
additional subscribers, and expansion of existing telex
and telegraph networks;
(j) provision of a computer for subscribers' billing and
information processing and consultancy services for
designing and implementing the system; and
(k) replacement of worn out local cables and exchange equip-
ment (about 9,000 lines) and rehabilitation of the
Karachi-Lahore-Rawalpindi coaxial cable.
Implementation
51.       The project would be implemented by T&T (see paragraphs 34-38
above). T&T is headed by a Director General, assisted by a Financial Advisor,
a Chief Accounts Officer, and five Chief Engineers responsible, respectively,
for Staff and Establishment; Maintenance and Operations; Development;
Planning; and Organization. T&T's training programs are carried out at its
central training institute at Haripur, where courses are given for supervisory
and higher-level technical staff both from within T&T as well as graduate and
diploma-level entrants; four regional schools providing technical training;
and district schools offering vocational training. In all, some 6,000 persons
attend training courses each year, with about 2,300 attending advanced classes
at the technician and supervisor levels. The department currently employs a
total of about 36,000 people.
52.       The ratio of staff to telephones is relatively high and under pre-
vious IDA-assisted projects the Government had agreed that this ratio would
be reduced by at least 4% per annum. Over the period 1971-76, T&T reduced the
number of staff per thousand telephones from 131 to 109, nearly 4% per annum;
during 1977-81, the number was further reduced to 98, about 2% per annum.
The loss of experienced staff to the OPEC countries (which has necessitated
the employment of relatively larger numbers of lower level staff) has pre-
vented T&T from reducing the ratio more rapidly in recent years. However,
with the exodus of expert staff now slowing down, T&T expects to make more
rigid reductions in the ratio of staff/telephones and T&T would limit its
employment of new staff to the extent required to reduce the ratio of staff
per telephones in service by at least 4% per annum until a ratio of 70 staff
to 1,000 telephones is reached (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Accounting.  Since taking over full responsibility for its account-
ing as part of its reorganization as a largely autonomous department (para-
graphs 36-38), T&T has begun to introduce stricter internal controls over
cash management, has decentralized certain accounting functions and has begun
studies on the mechanization of accounting routines. In addition, together
with staff from the Auditor General's office, T&T has identified all receiv-
ables and current liabilities previously shown under suspense accounts await-
ing reconciliation. Under the proposed project, T&T would undertake a review
of its commercial accounting procedures, and appropriate adjustments would



- 16 -
be made in its FY82 accounts in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section
4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). T&T-s financial statements would be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of
accounts, together with the auditors reports, would be submitted to the Bank
within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
54.       The present and projected volume of T&T's operations indicate that
T&T should have its own computer facilities as well as in-house computer
expertise (system analysts, programers and operators) for efficient operation
of these facilities. Accordingly, the provision of a computer and limited
consultant assistance has been included in the proposed project.
55.       Budgetary Provisions.   Previous telecommunications projects in
Pakistan have suffered delays due to general budgetary constraints which have
resulted in the late provision of local funds to T&T for development works.
The creation of a separate T&T Fund (paragraph 38) would help to reduce the
risk of delays resulting from financing shortfalls in future. The Government
has undertaken to make adequate and timely annual budgetary provisions for
project implementation (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
56.       Total project costs are estimated at US$287 million equivalent,
including US$48 million customs duties on imported items. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$135 million. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in the Loan and Project Summary. Base costs have been calculated
on estimated January 1982 costs for equipment, local works, and customs
duties. Bank-financed consultant costs (including allowances and overheads)
have been estimated at US$8,000 per man-month. Price contingencies for
foreign exchange items to be financed by the Bank have been estimated at 8.5%
for 1982 and 7.5% per annum thereafter; on local costs, an 8% annual increase
has been allowed. No physical contingencies have been provided, since
project proposals are based on detailed engineering for systems and equipment
having specific capacities and, in the case of cables and multiplex equipment,
increases in one area would, within the overall network forecast, be expected
to be compensated for by reductions in other areas.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs of local cables and distribution network (excluding buildings
and telephones) for an additional 52,000 subscriber lines; replacement of
local cables and the rehabilitation of the Karachi-Lahore-Rawalpindi coaxial
cable; toll-ticketing equipment; the Lahore-Wagah coaxial cable; miscellaneous
telegraph expansion facilities; and computer facilities and related consultant
services.
58.       It is expected that the balance of the foreign exchange costs would
be financed by loans and credits from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the
Japanese Government, and Germany through Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW)
and German suppliers (about US$29 million, US$31 million, and US$31 million,
respectively). In addition, some US$4 million, representing the foreign
exchange cost of the telex exchange equipment included in the project, has
been arranged through a Japanese suppliers credit. About US$10 million of



- 17 -
the anticipated German financing, which would be used for the import of
components and other materials for the local manufacture of switching and
multiplex equipment, is expected to become available shortly under an ongoing
KfW loan, and a German suppliers' credit of US$ 5 million has recently also
been arranged; this total of US$15 million would be sufficient to meet the
requirements of the factories for at least the first year of the project.
The Japanese Government-financed part of the project would consist of an earth
satellite station with an international switching center at Islamabad and a
microwave system linking Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. The ADB-financed
part of the project would comprise a microwave system linking Karachi through
Quetta and Dera Ismail with Peshawar and radio and multiplex equipment for
subsidiary routes and PCOs. Although the project would be fully viable
without the items for which the Government is seeking financing from the ADB
and the Japanese Government, the local network items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan are dependent for effective use on the supply of
locally manufactured switching and multiplex equipment for which additional
KfW funding or, as an alternative, further German suppliers' credits are being
sought. In the event that sufficient external financing is not available, the
Government would provide T&T with the necessary foreign funds to carry out the
project (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Surveys and preparation of specifications for the main project
items are already in hand and network design is well advanced. T&T's staff
should, with the assistance of contractors on the more complex installations,
have the capability to carry out the project. Contracts for items to be
procured from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Local manufacturers participating in international bidding
would be accorded a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing
import duty, whichever is lower.
60.      Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made for:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and
materials (including installers' services); (b) 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured goods and equipment; and (c) 100% of the foreign cost
of consultants.
Tariff Levels and Financial Position
61.       Except for the monthly rental fees, domestic telephone tariffs have
since FY74 been increased at a rate well above the general inflation rate.
T&T is, with current tariffs, expected to generate substantially more local
currency funds than needed for its FY82-86 development program, and no general
tariff increase is expected to be required during the project period for the
purpose of maintaining adequate internal cash generation or of earning a
satisfactory rate of return (see paragraph 64 below); however, further
increases in tariffs may be made by the Government from time to time to
generate additional revenue for the general Budget.



- 18 -
62.       T&T's tariff structure is in line with current practices in many
other developing countries. In an attempt to better ration demand, a tele-
phone connection fee of US$200 is charged to subscribers. Subscriber dialed
trunk calls to distances over 480 miles are priced lower than similar operator-
assisted calls, which is justified given the lower cost for subscriber trunk
dialing (STD) calls. However, this pricing policy is reversed for distances
under 480 miles, where STD tariffs are higher than those for which operator
assistance is required.
63.       Although, as mentioned above, no general tariff increase is expected
to be needed for financial reasons, a study of T&T's tariff structure and
future investment program would be undertaken, with special attention to:
(a) the use of off-peak hour call charges to increase circuit utilization and
to reduce congestion; (b) the potential for increasing connection fees and/or
deposits in urban areas with long waiting lists and severely limited available
facilities; (c) increases in monthly rental fees, especially for telex sub-
scribers; (d) a revision of present trunk-call tariffs for calls of distances
under 480 miles in order to encourage the use of STD facilities; and (e) a
possible accelerated expansion of the sector in order to increase the poten-
tial use of telecommunications revenues as a vehicle for domestic resource
mobilization. T&T would undertake this tariff and investment study, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and the results of the study
would be submitted to the Bank for comment not later than September 30, 1983
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       T&T-s fixed assets are valued at historic cost, including capital-
ized exchange losses due to the 1972 rupee devaluation and other adjustments
to assets acquired before the end of FY73, as recommended by a Government-
appointed committee. T&T's low depreciation rates for commercial accounting
purposes were, on the Bank's recommendation, increased in 1975 to an average
of about 4.5%, a figure based on plant history and in line with what is
currently considered adequate in the telecommunications sector. Although T&T
carried out an inventory and reclassification of its fixed assets when depre-
ciation rates were increased, no attempt has been made since FY73 to evaluate
the impact of inflation on the value of T&T-s fixed assets. Accumulated
inflation over the period FY72-81 totaled about 190%, which indicates that
T&T-s fixed assets may be undervalued. Accordingly, T&T would, by December
31, 1982, submit to the Bank for comment a method for revaluating its fixed
assets and, with effect from FY83, annually revalue these assets in accordance
with methods satisfactory to the Bank. The Government would be required
to ensure that tariffs would be maintained at a level to produce a rate of
return of not less than 10% on revalued net fixed assets in operation (Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). 1/
Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed project would form an integral part of the Government-s
national development plan for the telecommunications sector, and would assist
T&T in improving standards and reliability of service, meeting part of the
existing unmet demand in urban areas, and extending service into rural areas.
1/   This requirement was included under the previous three telecommunications
projects (Credits 145-PAK, 186-PAK, and 510-PAK) and has been fully
complied with.



- 19 -
In addition, the project would assist in the further development of T&T-s
internal organization to enable it to meet its increased responsibilities,
specifically in the areas of improved data processing and accounting procedures.
66.       While the project is heavily directed towards improvement and
expansion of long distance, international and telex facilities, of which
government and business subscribers are the main users, the provision of new
subsidiary routes, rural exchanges and public call offices will mainly benefit
the currently under-serviced and unserviced rural communities.
67.       The need for an intensified effort to close the gap between supply
and demand for telephone facilities was commented on in the Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report for the Third Telecommunications Project (Credit 510-PAK).
In view of Pakistan's severe budgetary and foreign exchange constraints, the
expansion of telecommunications must be weighed carefully against broader
national objectives and the competing demands of other sectors. In addition,
given the necessary pending changes in switching technology (paragraph 49),
little more can be done under the proposed project to increase supply. It is
proposed that the tariff and investment study (paragraph 63 above) will
examine both the investment needs and revenue benefits which might justify
increases under a possible further telecommunications project as well as
means of closing the supply demand gap over the longer term.
68.       The internal financial rate of return of T&T's four-year development
program is estimated at 26%. The estimated financial rate of return on the
project (Phase I of the new investment plan) together with ongoing works is
31%; this higher rate is due to the concentration in Phase I of long distance,
international and telex facilities which generally produce higher revenues per
invested dollar than investments in the local telephone network. Excluding
customs duties (about 40%) from capital expenditures, a minimum estimate
of the economic rate of return on the four-year development program is 31%.
A sensitivity analysis on the financial rate of return of the four-year pro-
gram indicates that, even assuming an unfavorable combination of conditions,
the rate of return would be not less than 21%.
69.       Up to FY75, the Government had to provide financial support to T&T
through equity contributions. Due mainly to tariff increases, T&T's cash
flow has improved considerably since that time and the Government has collected
more funds through T&T than has been spent on it. The fiscal surplus for the
period FY82-86 is expected to be about Rs 6,750 million (US$675 million).
The creation of the T&T Fund (paragraph 38) and the Government-s undertakings
regarding project financing (paragraph 55) would minimize the possible risk
of project delays caused by shortfalls in necessary government funding.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,



- 20 -
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 15, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                PAKISTAN                            -  MST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURALI   249.9              1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       130.0    260.0               232.3              1136.1
ENERGY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    136.0       196.1    218.2               499.4              1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45850.5    60448.9  79705.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1       24.9      27.8               17.3                40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      57.0        75.2      99.1              153.6               373.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0      249.0    309.4               360.3              2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        46.3      46.4               37.4                39.8
15-64 YRS.                        51.8        50.5      50.7               59.2                56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.4         3.2       2.9                3.5                 3.5
POPULATION GEOWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.8       3.1                2.1                 2.3
URBAN                             4.6         4.0       4.3                3.4                 3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.4        47.3      44.4               27.7                29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.6        17.4      14.3               10.2                 7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION NATE             3.2         3.7       3.2                2.5                 1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      1908.1   2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       6.0               20.4                44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       102.0    101.0               107.1               123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0        97.0      99.0               98.6               112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         55.0        60.0      63.0               56.9                62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      22.0        20.0      20.0               14.2                19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE    24.0        18.4      14.8               14.6                 4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.5        48.8      52.2               57.7                64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         135.0/         ..                         89.1                50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0      29.0               30.1                45.9
URBAN                              *-        77.0      60.0               65.8                68.0
RURAL                              ..         4.0      17.0               20.1                34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         3.0       6.0               17.6                53.4
URBAN                              ..        12.0      21.0               71.0                71.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                4.8                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        11000.0/d   4299.0/e  3758.0/e            3857.7              4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..    13305.97e 9984.87j             6411.8              2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1742.9      1860.1   1894.8              1132.8               588.5
URBAN                           507.2       648.5    709.2               322.3               579.6
RURAL                         22850.0    12476.0  11819.6               5600.5              1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.3
URBAN                             5.5         5.5
RURAL                             5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8/f
URBAN                             3.1         2.77       ..
RURAL                             3.1         2.87?      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        17.9/f
URBAN                              ..        54.4/f
RURAL                              ..         4.97       ..



-22-                                      ~~~~~~ANNEX I
-  22- -A                                                       XI
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV/ AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIIATE)-G
HOST RECENT         LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      ASIA & PACIFIC      ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLEINT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                30.0        44.0     51.0               85.9                99.8
MALE                46.0        62.0      69.0              94.4               100.6
FEPALE              13.0        24.0      32.0              64.5                98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                11.0        14.0     17.0/1             38.0/aa             53.5
MALE                18.0        22.0      25.0/4             34.67/a            58.4
FEKALE               3.0         6.0       8.0/I            18.d7a              48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   1.0        1.5      1.5LI              3.8                21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        41.0     40.0               32.8                34.2
SECONDARY                        24.0        20.0     19.0/4             19.9                31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      15.0/S      20.7      24.0              52.8                86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.0         2.6      2.8                1.7                12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        6.0        17.1     66.8               35.3               174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         1.6      8.3                3.7               50.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 7.0         ..      13.3               14.6               106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8        3./h      ..                3.4                 4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   14447.6    17364.1  21787.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  8.6        9.3      10.4               29.3               37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            60.8        58.9     57.2               69.8                50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               17.9       18.7      19.9               14.1               21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.5        28.7     27.3               39.7               40.2
MAIU                               55.2        50.4     47.5               51.5                49.8
FEMALE                              5.7         5.5      5.9               23.3               31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.5         1.7      1.8                1.1                1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i     17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS 45.37i      41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   6.47?      8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 57i   20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..        68.0    176.0              134.1              248.6
RURAL                              ..       47.0    122.0               111.6              193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..        34.0     88.0                 ..              249.8
RURAL                              *-        22.0     58.0                 ..              234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..        42.0     32.0               41.7               21.2
RURAL                              ..       43.0      29.0               51.7               32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  1962-65; /d Includes Bangladesh; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country; /f 1973;
/S 1960-62; /h 1972; /i 1963-64; 7T 1975.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -
DEFINITItOPS 50AW  IJpICAXOR
frftjr   iioh rh  data so  doo-  from  -oro.  poroly Jode   h .               rI a- hoiatv   .4 rItci, i  aud alt  bo -ord Itho  tby oy rot ho  ote-
rrttoaly ca-reblo boo...  of rh  loc  of .toodacdt.rd doftoti- o                I.r tudoooPt. ,o.d by di.ors11orio  ot ilitts th. dot..  Tho dot.ac,o -
thol_os. .ofo  to daocrtho ordorooffloto..idl...cs rode., to  ch--otoizo o--l  -J- diff.r-co   b.rvo   oerto
Tb. raforooo poop  or. (1) rho t-  corry goo.rP of lb. tobjoro cr-re  td  (2) a co--oroy  group fo                    re bohigh-rostg   laos  ta  Lb. Iouuto  gop
of rhoArJsr   -trry (--op  foo "CaPitol tropi. Oil aporro." troop  h..o. "Aiddi. tao.  ro  Africa a.  fiddle toot" to ch-c  b.c.... of  -.rW.o
Orct-oot-re  off toite).  Ito horfrousc  grop dot. cho ov-rgs  sp  Ppapcirtu                                                         Wb-ttaoai  nt   o   ahttlao    he  rutt oe
.jrtty  of tho corerto  ta    500  ho. dart for Ithttdcor ro,t. cor1ag-ofcL-oora   otbrh  todtcotor. dopord. or thocalblt   fdt
.W it rot  -ulor,otao..a ho b ooot.  torlto    ao                         f  -r  trirrro,r-          a.    or.         .   o.ti   ofol tocottu              mh -alue of
Ot  oloororato  t000  rha toropod oaf-s....gooe
for Irr., pat--e, marht ard ktochor poode. -to orit  fellow; 1978 dart.                         hhltrocooo                tttea   r   aaiost   eeooi  trot .fft
by to -i..o .. pipoica.1  Estblh-isoo   poo-idia   potrcipelf I0000
da PU  CAPITA (UttE  - GNP  -s   rtottor.o   rro  sorter pita  to.I.-                               dial.....         t o- clude.  ttcl h.poai,  oesoc  i-lird   hatith
ro.tte  by a-tcoepo           tohod a. tolId Oat Aria  (1977-79 hoo.);i0c                          od attain  -ootr  rot petmee1ri  'taff. by *  hatOt(ha.b
1970. Sa   99dr.dcl  .itt,rrs .d.ef ,  rc)  hth offor L tor tits c-
d      -iito    red. . lisiod .t-go.f  dicol foilitit..  for atoit.-
U1N:f   tUIPTtS PU  CAPITA - Asrl ..ror-ptior cf co"oi_Jrary(os                                     ta   pvpoaora   ioriaaolads lst. prtoipei/.S-ol hoepttolo,
eod hlts.   rorosa, rrura  P.a to  bydr-,  - -las  ard gootboo   sloe-                    =o rt   opitr1l1.. loa  00  -rra  hoePtolol aod sadict te  meterity
trcr)o   ilogo_  of too  oqo.-l-rt par coPita; 1990. 170,=so  1t79                          cot-ra   Spoct.alio..d hedpirole a-  toLodad trpoly           ttl
data                                                                                            Adoaions to  hor  aited-  to1 oao f adactto   o00dtcooo
fro- opol  dielded by ohs o           -o of beds.
Por IO11toa   na oTAtITtnCI
Tra   ooltr. Kid-too  (t-rtod) -hcf JulY 1; 1960. 1970, aid 1979                      tOtUlti
darat.f                                                                                       Mada rhiot- of Iottho A (roosc-   1o  tohld   - tta   orhat. sd ov. 
ar ootra;1960, 1970, tod 1979 dato.                                                    th          ldrshacOcf tscttcl  oPots
PoootsPro-tict-                                                                           Mootrtro   tor=rcro -oa    ro. aL-                        d rurL - Moato  r-
ooatimt   9r2000 - lctot  uplaiv  proittico. bec           . htd 1o9lot              bor of potoo  pr roo  ttil rphoo.b, aid ruvo  o-cpi"d oowotr-
tota  poltio  by sto ad t-  .Adobl tortoli-   ao1 d frottlityros.d ilo.rap toly                                              tli.acrdtt-rm nteorrotd
Poototiot_por-tc    fo   erolity-o-tt  oprit  of chr. loyrl  at=-  ocpiad por.'-
loya, so  ta,t lfa spocoroy  rahlitio  ot 77.5 years.  Th. por-                     CoutieldeiganblcroOy                          it"boos qr..s. -. "Poro
-tooIfr farItilr   ot t,      tohav   bth ..     ol  tosrlo4doIiro  tof  ototl. orbto. ad rural dw-Ilirscspctsy
f-rrility o-rdtr  t  irc-   loya  ad         . Oto f ally  rito1    prfroe
Oath It`ror  Lo th- . oiapodoo of               i-ao ito  coh .o o  of  -trosity         EDUCATION
-ad  fotrlor   -rdto  projocio    ros.Adlr.ted  Oolor  Uttic
rho bIPOb oar. it sqo1 to rho death oar, aid also tho ag  Proro   o                              coltoo   I   r.o  h   yo-'y loi  .  ociur s   f IopotIr
ott- oreato-    This Io atbite   oly afoer ftrrtiliry ooe  d-ol-c.s o                           Ptiotr  achool-ooporlooo  eamalylooatbhltdro  sged 6411
rho  -tpltot-     iyr  of _itt oa  repodrott  rote-,  ho  each go           roy-t.r  WrI adJord for difforso   eogtba of prO-to  td-uct-; Ito
of        ..Pi.c.o ittolf eaocly'  Th  satoor    popltov   OtotcstiM o   oevt  dctiotrlmo   yae    lI  poore
s.tit.otd  to ho boat  of tha pr-lo-w ch.rc Lvsr.1 of oh   oplrrot                                         bs topopl  r    oyorao,roofbca                 olo
irho yea  tOri, ad  rho rot of drcltos offrrtiliryrars toroao.sodr  ool-ttl   0.a    oa.-Coe    0sot   ttdp
Io loyl.                                                                                     odrstior. reqrtrroa   ltIar fsor yeao  f aporord pptospy troutlom;
-sr  t.ioe-     ooioo  is casohd - The yerto  toivr  porosoto                                  pr Atoo  gaorl  vootal   rtaco    rlar   rtocta  for P0
also hao boo  rs-hod.                                                                           casl f 12T to      y-ort of on; ..-..ePvwaorrot=o    oat
Polts at io,               -                                                                     tolrI.L
'ar e.: ho -: te-yoa  popoltio- psooqoort lil-..tr 1100 hoc-os) of                               Oosiolerio. (atro   eod l -Ptaiooa  toitirioo
total are; 1990, 197  ad  1979 data.                                                            Itld   ohio,tdtoo,t   te    oja   uthoosordpd
Par o. ho. _ei..tulirt lad - Co.tood at ebot fo1a-            iootalld                            autly ora  doroso   f  eroaytartoOrs
oiy; 1940. 1970 ad 1975 dota.                                                                 fortl-teabha  ratio -tlty    dtceay- Tota  etrdtor  aoled to
Poosatto_ hA_s     _            Itr .ts(trot . I Childro  (0-10tar)   sotoeo.11-                    pot-ty tod t-ooar  le-ol drolde  byoroa of tetchor  Lo Obo
1000am; 1990, 1970, ad 1979 data.                                                               Aoltlitrc  orr  (f-too) - itor..to adult. (ahlr to oI              ia tm.
Po-tmi-or troh Oat, bsroo2        - oa  - ctoo  groohooa-  of total tod-                            Et otrt   of  tota  .dolt pootrt  a     15  -ro                d rer
yatpoolaloo  fr  19040  140-70  tad 1970-79.
fosloto toeh  ar  (orar) - robot -  orl trvoh cae f co-     ppu                      COttTO
laioa  oo1.950460, 1990-70, ad 1970--79.                                                 fa :tat  Cart (or rho-m-d ssOtrb-fte                       atcors   at
ireattrb Dae oo  rotb-d) - Ator1 Ifo birtht  or ottota.d of aid-yea-at oro    t... thao cioho  Wemm;  olda    sber    ho-.- tod
porosoto.; 1990, 1970, ad 1979 daro.                                                            mlitr  v.hita.
C.ds D-atb Utor (oar oho            - AsorI deatb  per thar-ood  of tid~-or                     Wor Ocoor.n  rhb-oor torlaiou-                  All typee of r.-ooor  foe 0.d1.
p olto;1590. 1970,  d  197  d.tr                                                         brad res.  to tP.r.   poblio por thored of popolarbo;  -1atid
t001. _y ot.;  _oratl  fre-year toago   adi"e1  1990, 1970, tod  979.                           Lo otro  aboltab dl.fic-t-oatag..                              ..l..1
fall,Ploooea -  ttorocm.  stral(obrrado) - Aoel orsar of a...spor                 TVtttor-er hred ntait                        TV cacal.or  f or broaot   t
sooo o  ohld-earotagO(15AdYrcr.) oout  blIro-toorro  decic.or tstoo   orottrlottaeo  roroloo                                                b-rh. oh.  -rPt5  otr
ell aaoitd tooIt             ..o no   ooP.                                                   -Tolrirf "daiyotrolttoa1                     aysr"  del oe  raeP..-.i-
poblicot io  dortod potoi-iy or racoriton arlto    It it ooeidartd
FatD Amb NTStTIT                                                                                    t  be "doily Ito  o             Ior   at eao  fror rteoa- o
lOde of ood Pooocotor or Coott  (1969-71-100       re   f poCais  orl                   i stAra   ttdOOorCetIorTr-to    ntotboo
prod-toio  of all fad  -oadioio. .rdutlt  ttaamtod  d   a   ad                                  Otohato rod dortog tb  y-aP. Iriro                1-ioie    ftooi-to  cian
it=oa   of acpIc  rhich  ro Sdibla ad corto            irat. (a.es. cotfea ad
tea to   rldd.Agssoporro                     f eth c-aror  it boosdo                       10"0  P010
eati_ol erospoorpiostia;16-65,. 1970, td1979 dar.                                            Toafaotot rotoa                        .c.ocll   cOs2oem,  oldo
fa   eir  o dt=fceot.  (toi o  catraoe t- .91        .  Torrd  rmatad foro-  oe..  (tetiopd.  bv   taiotbcatoo    dtdot                                         gt
oyrqtoaof ear food  -r2ltearilble tooo           fr   o  caO                      eoato  ~pootoitoo al  ego s..   Wottiwio  ft tenso   ootrieta
P.. day.  Aotlabla mopplist toepi.1. d-eotit  rdcto I             opot bo                     o      pcbo   96,17   d17   aa
topota,cr4ohaoto1   tac.  Oat -orlie   ald t ti "od  to=,=l Ca ter   - rati   lbhor forc-a  porrtog   of tota  labor foor.
q_atirIea ee  to food               -ootig    d  t.-o  to dibtthtioi. teqtr-               coicolt-y -ooca) - laorforc  fto f=rt     fo.tetr, b-oto  ad
naoc0s ttotd by PMO hots  o phyailolotoa  eaeda for tootl -tio-                     fiohlog a. pe Iorg       f total tbor f room; 1960. 1979 tud 1979 dora.
etty ad  hos ihroadooto  ooiprl         ol -      eot1       body oittor, our              Ird-sty (co-tr  -Ltboo force to 011g  cetooimtut,otoo
ad to  dleoribatioo of prero,ad a11wir  10reca  for em... ot                                 ad-4    arly  oterod et-a  potr                    f tota  labo  faro; 1950,
= Itood loya;.191-5  190   d1977. data.                                                     1970 ad  1979.dro
Porcoit tnl  o  aorIo  ort.      o  daoI d -  .r...t  toto f  ro -apit.                 fttoerc    as(etotR os ml,a    alo  - P.rtipoitt t
too  uppl  of foo  po  day.  Oat ..pply of lodif        oid-to,.o                           ooiy  oe   c   ooa   ottl   ae  add t1oo lho  forts t
qotca-    too al  ootttotaio                by 0006  -rri. for too-                           foereoo   otl   l   o    naspolrs   f oil er-  osee"r-oy;
allsooo  f 60 gos of toa .. pr9otolo pordytd  1g,                f  ooia                    19t0, 1'970, tad 19719 dot.'  Th ..oero. based or hotS PorIirpatlo  ot.
tulatn pproo  of rhiob 10 Ett.  ohoold bo droai       porto   Thra  esd-                     rolatpor-.   toor   f rho wpop.too   Ad  bogt=    toad.  A
ord. or  loer  tha t hot of 75 tor. of tota  protsl  ad 27 greo  of                          fa  tatre ae from  -erool s r.
ourlt proteirotosrasfrl.  t              oold,  ocoproad by Iad Lo rho ThIod               Ocomctraro  tecio  - "t"tt  ofpp tiro OSr  15 ad 95 ad 009
Oorld Pad ot-a; 1961-0.197 od 1977 dor.                                                      to  o. ro-a  lohor forts.
PrMunti   root - trooly fro    rlI         d   ta   -Pct-to roPPY of food do-
rie   for- ar-ale  Iod       ..to  togo,  pe  dy; 1961-65. 1970 rod 1977 dote.           INCOME tISThItftIOf
Child (550  1_6) totlity Ltor  (E50 rtorsod   A-1Ar     deaho par thcrrtao  to                 faoooso   ovt ltt(rtt   ohtd hi.d) -tte   by  oha
ft. 000   -   er..ocido     th.bl           .gtgro; for -It  days,loog torr-                   oI2rer,rtha   topoest,  ort  toprtm                       d p-orIar hop-r
ors at. dootoed from  life ethlmo  1960.170 ad 1979 deof ho-r-o-ho1da.
asoit                                                                          poy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f  ..T.fly1T1Ttrg P
or broth; 1900, 1970  drt 1979 dart.                                                and sh-tid hotrortd   ihcroorhtctim
of ogopoohtedhobit.Ahirtprryb tleeithotoaItl boit                                                                                                             ob-o  -d -itto    -
Moss totot  Waer earar  f ttliot toa.rbo    dpro .l f- 'ocrtmayodqatitplsea lto-food raqu t-t. ta  -to
he   fpol 001, ob.., ad  total) with reaeoebla acot to at
_t_  _h  IMI  pl.,-t" b.I   l... PIi.'.'   ~ -it-                     ftorO-d tolatter Po-ot lo -m   L-eo  (US$ -r  ata -                roar  d  rerl
fooroao or oord .o   . torra  ac_ c    ht70mr    fo      ot   a   tlnt-achodoe                                    orht 'oIcs  of =ttvoh oohtor
do earhan 00apooda di.pororo   It-ro    00r oft- doy t   ath-.g tha                   rovo.l    -            h. -I                    i"I df                t  
rhorolott  m          1rddt iowl, oih  o  wrbo  t-oi    rt  ofhrt  tort                                                               eo.      rdra lOrsooeo
a-              :Pd 'Ota- dicby'taer-o -i-rtma   r     cto of. it p -i'ieoao  ett:.l --.                                  M      cootait ceab ti  ord fojctoa   oor
nit adfa,lo   oodort  mupot, pracical rrtee,dod ot.treot  troos



- 24 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPIMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81                                                                                    ANNUAL RATE OR GROWTR (2, constant prices)
0S$ billion       1                                                          1969/70-1974/75     1975/76-1980/81     1980/81
GNP at Market Prices                     29.99        100.0                                                             3.5                 6.3              6.2
Gross Dowestic InvestLent                 4.87         16.2                                                            -5.5                 5.4              4.4
Gross National Saving                     3.94         13.1                                                            -2.1                 8.2             10.3
Current Account Balance                 -0.95           -
Resource Gap                            -2.93          -9.8                                                             6.7                15.1            -29.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/8aa
Value Added           Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    X      Million    7       US$ million    7
Agriculture                  7,538         30      13.2      54         571          56
Industry                    6,490         26       4.5      18       1,442          141
Services                   11,127         44        6.9     28        1,613         158
Total/Average             25.155        100      24.6    100        1,023         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governent                                       Central Government
(Rs billion)             7 of GDP                    (Rs billion)              7 of GDP
1980/81         1980/81      1976/77-1980/81         1980/81          1980/81     1976/77-1980/81
Current Receipts                 46.8             16.9           16.2                 36.1             13.0           12.4
Current Expenditures             36.8             13.3           14.0                 28.6             10.3           10.5
Current Surplus/Deficit         100.0              3.6            2.2                  7.5              2.7            1.9
Capital Eapenditures             25.0              9.0            9.7                 21.5              7.8            7.8
External Assistance (net)         5.7              2.0            3.0                  5.7              2.0            3.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80    1980/81]b
Money and Quasi Money                     33.1         41.6        51.7        63.7        76.5        90.7        104.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)        17.7         22.9        29.5        34.3        43.1        48.1         53.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)     19.7         23.1        30.1        35.7        42.7        50.6         58.7
Money and Quasi Money as 1 GDP            31.6         34.3        38.1        40.5        42.8        42.7         41.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)    211.3        229.4       255.3       271.4       289.7       316.7        358.8
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Indes                     23.6          8.6        11.3         6.3         6.7         9.3         13.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)        21.2         29.4        28.8        16.6        25.6        11.6         11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)     26.3         17.3        30.3        18.6        19.6        18.5        16.0
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underenumeration my exist, especially of woum.
/b Provisional.
Not applicable.
February 1982



-25-
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         (USS million)                                           MElCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1977/78-198/n8l)
1976/77      1977/78       1978/79       1979/80        1980/81 /a                                        US1$  illion        2
Exports of Goods., NFS                                1,404        1,651         2,107          2,955         3,450                Raw Cotton                     259.4            8.5
Imxports of Goods. NFS                                2,877        3,297         4,485          5,709         6,385                Cotton Yarn                    179.3             9.8
Resosroe Gap (deficit = - )                          -1,473       -1,646        -2,378         -2.754        -2,935                Cotton Cloth                   219.2           12.4
Rise                          393.2            19.6
Interest Paymensi                                      -172         -183          -261           -285          -322                All Other Commodities        1,034.6           49.7
Workers' Remittanoes                                    578        1,166         1,395          1,748         2.117                  Total                      2,085.7          100.0
Other Factor PFoments (fl)                               1S           62            134           151           193
Net Transfers                                            ..           ..             ..            ,,            ..                       EXTERNAL. DEDBT.ECEMEBR 31, 1980
Balanoc  On Current Acounot                          -1,052         -601        -1,110        -1,140           -947
118$ million
Direst Foroigo Investment                                 .            ..
Not MLT Borrowing                                                                                                                  Foblic Debt, Incloding Guaranteed          8,775.3
Dishbrsemests                                         961          041           813          1.134         1,067                Non-guaranteed Private Debt If                  ..
A-ortization                                         -175         -122          -235          -310           -358                  Total Outstanding asd Disbursed         8,775.3
Slb Totol                                             786          719           578            824           709
Transsactios with IMI  /b                                44           41            -14            78           331                    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80 /R
other Irons s.e.i. Ic                                    24          163            238           600           217                                                         Us$ million
Increase in Reserves (-)                                198         -322           308          -362           -310                Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            12.1
Gross Reserves (yr-r end) /d                            372          694            386           748         1,058                Non-guaranteed Private Debt
8      1                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.1
Net Resorves (year end) /e                             -146          150            -92           340           330                  Total
Official Gold (year end; millios ounces)                1.6          1.7           1.8            1.8           1.8                 IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMfER 1981) (u8s$  illion)
Fae  and Related Materials                                                                                                                                                    IRD       IDA
Patroleu= Inyorts                                       413          497            530         1.079         1.535                Outstanding and Disbursed                 312.2    825.6
Petrolesa Exports                                        27           63            61            178           169               UDdis.ursed                                 36.5    549.9
Outstanding, inrluding Undisbursed    348.7  1,375.5
RATE IF EXChONGE
Throogh May 11, 1972       _ay 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973         Febreurv 15, 1973 - January 8, 1982    January 8, 1982 /h
5S1  = Rs 4.7619               US$ = 11.00                                 U1$ = 9.90                         US$ - 10.1
Re  = USS0.2100                R.  = 0.0909                                RE   - 0.1010                      Rs  - 0.09
/a Gove-rmest estimate.
lb Iecludlng Trust Fund.
/0 Including net shoet-tern bhorrowig and errors and omissions.
/d Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/0 E-iloding aer af IMF credit.
If  Priv-te debt is negligible.
/g  Eatis of debt service to enpoert  of goods. nan-factor nervices and vorkers' remittances; not including short-term  or IMF chargen.
/h Si.ce J--ury 8, 1982, value of ropee is boing nanaegd with -ef-ronce to a vaighted bhshes of ouneessiss.
Not  -vailable.
Pehbuary 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                   (Amount net of cancellation)
Credit                                                                         Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower        Purpose                      Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-nine loans and credits fully disbursed /a          611.2         616.3
422      1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                   --            18.6   0.1
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                    --            16.0   0.8
1107     1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                   53.0          --    1.7
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --              30.0   0.5
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                 --   32.0     --    2.0
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                               --            23.0   8.1
1326     1976  PICIC      Industrial Development            25.0           --    1.1
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                    --            26.0   7.7
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage            --            14.0   7.2
1366T    1977  Pakistan  Livestock                          --   10.0     --    9.8
1372     1977  Pakistan  Railways                           35.0           --   21.9
684      1977  Pakistan  Railways                           --            25.0   1.5
678      1977  Pakistan  Education III                      --            15.0   8.9
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                       --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                           --            70.0  69.1
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                    --             1.7   1.6
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                   --            12.5   9.6
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                   --            55.0   7.4
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development         --            30.0   8.7
877      1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --               60.0  59.1
892      1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                  --            10.0   9.0
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension        --             9.0   9.0
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --              30.0  20.0
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                  --           4 5.0  40.9
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                      --            50.0  43.0
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --              40.0  33.8
Total                                                      724.2 42.0 1,200.1 384.4
of which has been repaid                                 417.5 --       26.6
Total now outstanding                                      306.7 42.0 1,173.5
Amount sold                                        23.9
of which has been repaid                        22.9       1.0  --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                          305.7 42.0 1,173.5
Total undisbursed                                           24.7 11.8   347.9 384.4
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (as of September 30, 1981)
Credit                                                       Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                        Original  Undisbursed
1066      1981    Pakistan    Fertilizer Imports               38.2         25.6
1109/a    1981    Pakistan    Vocational Training              19.7         19.7
1113/a    1981    Pakistan    Small Industries                 23.6         23.6
1157/b    1981    Pakistan    Grain Storage                    26.1         26.1
1158/a    1981    Pakistan    Agricultural Research            19.7         19.7
1163/a    1981    Pakistan    On-Farm Water Management         33.4        33.4
Total                                                         160.7        148.1
of which has been repaid 
Total now outstanding                                         160.7
Total now held by IDA                                         160.7
Total undisbursed                                                          148.1
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Signed October 21, 1981.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                               Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor             Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63       -         0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75       -         0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25      0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --       0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84      0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        4.43      0.84       5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.             Paper                 5.38      2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00      2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60      0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited        Food & Food           2.40      0.40       2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                               29.00     1.62      30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78       -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board         2.70      -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           Food & Food
Processing          3.15      0.20      3.35
Total Gross Commitments                     63.91     9.68      73.59
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.95      1.01     34.96
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           29.96     8.67      38.63
Undisbursed (including participants)        12.10     0.57      12.67



- 29 -
ANNEX II
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 has
recently begun and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge
pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works, which, together with work in the downstream channel were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool will be com-
pleted in early 1982. Increased attention is being given to developing the
operation and maintenance program and resources to insure the long-term per-
formance and safety of the Tarbela Project. Since 1975, irrigation require-
ments from the dam have been met. Power generation by the first four units
began in 1977. Construction of a second power plant with six units is in
progress.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications
and signaling scheme is making good progress and the Lahore-Islamabad section
is expected to be commissioned in March 1982. Procurement has been completed
and the total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Physical work on the project is expected to be completed in April
1982; undisbursed Credit funds (about US$0.1 million) are committed and will
be withdrawn by December 31, 1981.
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of September 30, 1981, disburse-
ments amounted to US$15.2 million. The balance is committed and final with-
drawals are expected by February 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1326         Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan has been fully committed. Except for a small amount
(US$66,000), the Loan will be fully disbursed and closed on December 31,
1981.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed. Except for a small amount of
about US$200,000, the Credit will be fully disbursed and closed by December
31, 1981.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The closing date of the Loan has been extended to December 31,
1982 to allow the Borrower to utilize US$1.7 million undisbursed funds
toward increasing the capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas
distribution system. Materials have been ordered and are expected to be
delivered by March 1982. Construction should be completed in June 1982.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of the three seed processing
plants due to disputes between contractors, consultants, and equipment suppliers
and the Punjab Seed Corporation. There have been signs of improvement in the
quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research institutes, though there is
still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that both the project
completion date and Closing Date will need to be further extended.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted. Construction delays, however,
continue and redesign and retendering of some later contracts may cause
further delays. A tariff increase, expected to go into effect July 1, 1981,
has yet to be implemented.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date; December 31, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been completed. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1980, has been
extended to December 31, 1981, to accommodate payment of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due
to delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Work on canal
remodeling, surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily.
However, the tile and collector drain construction has progressed slowly.
Experience obtained during this period indicates that project costs could be
higher than appraisal estimates and completion may be delayed by 3-4 years.
Project officials have initiated revisions to the project, including purchase
of additional equipment, with a view to curtailing cost overruns and reducing
completion delays.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
In general, the project is making good progress. One project study
has been completed and the two others are nearing completion; nearly all of
civil works contracts have been awarded and about 80% have been completed.
About 70% of the project equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Land acquisition problems, which have caused delays in con-
struction, are in the process of being resolved.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to establish
about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service activities.
The contract of the General Contractors would be extended to cover the period
of construction and commissioning of the plant.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies and revised financial procedures are causing imple-
mentation problems, and the components dealing with fodders, demonstration
farms, apples and land-use are progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most tech-
nical developments are progressing satisfactorily and the training program
is on schedule. A draft proposal for a follow-up project and a report on
land tenure have been received. Reports on apple marketing and socio-
economics are awaited. Expenditures and disbursements have been less than
expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule, with no significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal
government approval of project. To accommodate resource constraints, the
project scope and cost have been revised, with IDA assistance, which facili-
tated government approval in February 1981. A final implementation plan has
been completed, which is in consonance with project revisions approved by ECNEC.
With ECNEC sanction and budgetary approval secured, implementation is expected
to improve.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara Task Force Study, chir pine forest inventory and the pulping test
for chir pine have been completed. A silviculturist has now been selected,
and a contract between PIDC and the selected consulting firm has been signed
to carry out the first phase of the feasibility study. As a result of these
developments, the final phase of the feasibility study is expected to commence
in early 1982.
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation is behind schedule due to government delay in grant-
ing project approval. However, lately there has been tangible progress in
staff recruitment, building site acquisition and construction, and implementa-
tion of T&V extension program. Initial bottlenecks in acquiring consultants'
services have since been overcome.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and is expected to start up commer-
cial production in March 1982.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation has been disappointing in recent months
due to a recurrence of technical difficulties in well drilling and completion,
and inadequacies in the management of the Toot operation. Oil and gas pro-
duction is well below what was forecast at the time of appraisal. A specific
action plan has been agreed upon with the Borrower aimed at strengthening
project management and enhancing the prospects of bringing into production the
remaining development wells. A project management team of expatriates is now
being sought to assume full responsibility for the management of the drilling
operation at Toot as soon as possible. The closing date will have to be
extended to allow completion of the original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project was restructured with IDA and CIDA assistance in
November 1980 to conform to government financial constraints, taking into
consideration the 21-month period which had elapsed since Credit effective-
ness. ECNEC, on February 10, 1981, gave conditional approval to the project,
subject to its implementation in phases. Such approval was not satisfactory
to CIDA and IDA, and an alternative project implementation plan was prepared
for GOP consideration. Initial response to these recommendations was positive
and we are now awaiting final approval by ECNEC. The project is about two
years behind schedule, but WAPDA and its consultants are undertaking actions
which will speed project implementation. Because of the long lead time
required for necessary equipment and civil works contracting, meaningful
project accomplishment is not anticipated before early 1983. The revised
project will be submitted to Bank management for consideration after full
government approval of the restructured project is assured.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Rapid progress is being maintained with the provision of both the
educational and physical inputs to this project. About 80% of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have
been provided with less than six months delay. Most of the remaining inputs
have been delayed up to nine months. The evaluation program is now under-
going a stage of redesign after the experiences gained in the first year of
evaluation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress has been satisfactory, although the agriculture
engineer training component is yet to start and project consultants are still
to be hired.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on June 26, 1981. Critical staff has
been recruited and project implementation has started. Progress on recruit-
ment of consultants is satisfactory.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The work on two of the five rehabilitation contracts is showing rea-
sonable progress. One contract is to be terminated due to the poor financial
position of the contractor, and negotiations are in hand to continue the work
by other means. Work in the remaining two contracts is showing some signs of
improvement.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980. As of September 30,
1981 US$29.85 million had been authorized for subloans and US$6.2 million
disbursed. The implementation of the project has been delayed due to insti-
tutional problems. However, GOP and PICIC are taking corrective measures to
expedite the implementation of the project.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 1109    Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Million
Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Initial progress with this project, which became effective on
October 27, 1981, has been satisfactory. Agreements have been reached with
ILO for the provision of technical assistance services and for the procure-
ment of equipment respectively and with architectural consultants for the
provision of architectural services. A start-up supervision mission is in
the country.
Credit No. 1113    Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1157    Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1158    Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163    On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
18 months.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department,
Ministry of Communications.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
first Bank mission to consider the project:
October 1979 and April 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February 10, 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 16, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 1982.
Section II:        Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:      Special Conditions
(a) T&T would reduce the ratio of staff per telephones
in service by at least 4% per annum until a ratio
of 70 staff to 1,000 telephones is reached (para-
graph 52).
(b) T&T would undertake a review of its commercial
accounting procedures, and adjustments would be
made in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para-
graph 53).



- 37 -
ANNEX III
(c) The Government would make adequate and timely annual
budgetary provision for project implementation (para-
graph 55).
(d) In the event that sufficient external co-financing
is not made available, the Government would provide
T&T with the necessary foreign funds to carry out the
project (paragraph 58).
(e) T&T would undertake a tariff and investment study,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and the results of the study would be submitted to the
Bank, for comment, not later than September 30, 1983
(paragraph 63).
(f) T&T would, by December 31, 1982, submit to the Bank,
for comment, a method for revaluing its fixed assets
and, effective FY83, annually revalue these assets in
accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraph 64).



I



IBRD 15689
6 2                64'                6 6                68                 70                 72                 714D
PAKI STAN                                                                       _   .  ST
TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT                                                               p.j    ,                 Hunzo Khunjerob6.._,
-36'                          MAIN LONG DISTANCE ROUTES                                                                           Gi 'Ji
>  Chitral  0J,E      Sll
COAXIAL                                                                                                            L,
CABLE     MICROWAVE    SATELLITE                                                                     0Drosh-
_____ ___                  Existing                                                     |  k        MAZA ND -            Skardu
Planned (Project)                                           J            r Besh
Planned (Non-project)                                               OShar     "f("e         ' " 
-  ffN.' w       PF. r  Muijffarcabt
34'                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34,
Pesha         HJpd.3
.  yrree
o       Towns                                                                     Nns rc                  AB ISL 'MAAD
Divisional Boundaries                                         >-              (     ,,          It
Provincia Boundaries          sATFL(Lre OVER         '        J a           .             I        *                 C'
International Boundaries     INDIANOCFAV/ .            -Bnn,                            WA IF
Rivers                                                                           t            ..t
annw                             iikr.
-32'                                                                                      D   KHAn Nr N a5wa                           Gur    a
o n~~~~~~~~P                            HAry  .h .jAH F«mr tsor)
Par  if  .        I                      isore ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so/
Sandema>..                                                  he F
DEM. REP.
OF R ET TA                                                          )Kot Ad                     h
30'          AFGHANISTAN                                Q LQetta                             D  G               K3naewa  I0       .
,.-' f                                  / \\9    I  zTt N          <     /  Basawainagar
"'-'   ,' NushK           Avlastu -    S                t Rhishuan
Nok Kund'i;                                                                         J       Bahaha alpur
Dalbcindin ri,         Palot                                        A H A-.
I ^   -U   C  H   |  SJX   ,  .t   \ \   //i  <    /BAHAWAIPUR/
-28° Kundi         _           <      ,           )I    >             /       Rahmnyar Khan                                  A
I28 R2N_8 ,.''                                                              uKK
e     ASi A  T                          " o                                                                        Z6
v.                           7~~~~~~~~~~~h,a   r                                 _J
f              j3 -1                                                     \   yeoa  _  r  A10_ Ci_
-        A,  4Cf /               fI    N                                          D  I    A 
Larkan
'Gr a wa g\K  /
IRAN                              ,ur 24°g                      Dads   I N/A
I   Cl~~N 
4sea   so 1>1         N                                           0iadhpu,
-26'  .                                                                           \                                                                 2II  Nawabsh
,1  ,;, e.  ,j za7 KtLOrETEaS .I                                    H(10   2   30    X                wA/A,V  SEA     >       &       YDERIABeA
rwurb*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                               -0mf    as_MtS         
r w _~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bu  KaI
b2'utr                 0 Bad)n                          72'                  74'
4'                                                                                                       t '* t i   |G MA Y 1I
A  RA,61A  A/   SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z~>t
~~~. ~~BHUJTAN
-22    Tis'   ..pw~i~
bQOOdPiOO #i$*"0 ~~~~ ~~    0         tI~       200        3mIN  P
#   5* . one  Wsmim o( 
IW WI                                                       I                    I                    ___
mAY i98T



