OAN NUMBER 2122 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Telecommunications Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2122 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    qAL6                     , 1982, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTY, acting y its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau, and from German suppliers, iunds (hereinafter
referred to as the German Financing) in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) to
assist in financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth
in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau and German suppliers, respec-
tively, (hereinafter referred to as the German Financing Agree-
ments);
(C) the Asian Development Bank is considering a loan (here-
inafter referred to as the ADB Loan) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate amount equivalent to approximately twenty-nine million
dollars ($29,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms
and conditions to be set forth in an agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Asian Development Bank (hereinafter referred to as
the ADB Loan Agreement);
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
Japan funds (hereinafter referred to as the Japanese Financing) in
an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately thirty-one
million dollars ($31,000,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement
between the Borrower and the Government of Japan (hereinafter
referred to as the Japanese Financing Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "T & T" means the Telegraph and Telephone Department of
the Ministry of Communications of the Bor-ower; and
(b) "FY" means the fiscal year of T & T beginning on July 1
and ending on June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through T & T with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To that end, the Borrower shall make adequate and timely
annual budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project
and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that
sufficient foreign exchange is available to enable T & T to carry
out the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist T & T in designing and
implementing the data processing facilities under Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause T & T to employ, as necessary,


﻿-4-
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
employment to be made in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project, and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause T & T to:
(a) undertake a study of T & T's tariff structure and
long-term investment program under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank; and
(b) by September 30, 1983, furnish the results of such study
to the Bank for comment.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause T & T at all times to
manage its affairs and carry on its operations in accordance with
appropriate engineering, financial and public utility practices,
under suitably qualified and experienced management, with the
assistance of competent staff.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of T & T.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall cause T & T to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of T & T and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause T & T to review the adequacy
of its commercial accounting system and financial statements
and to make appropriate adjustments in its -ccounts for fiscal
year 1982, as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause T & T to limit its employment of new staff to
the extent required to reduce the ratio of staff employed by T & T
to the number of telephones in service at a rate of not less than
four per cent (4%) per annum, until a ratio of not more than 70
staff per 1,000 telephones in service has been achieved.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to maintain
telecommunication tariffs which shall provide to T & T operating
income sufficient to produce, in respect of its fiscal year
ending June 30, 1983, and of each subsequent fiscal year, an
annual return on the value of net fixed assets in operation of
T & T of not less than ten per cent (10%), or such other per-
centage as may be agreed from time to time between the Borrower
and the Bank.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using, as the denominator, the value of net fixed
assets in operation of T & T at the beginning and
at the end of the fiscal year in question, and
dividing the total by two, and, as the numerator,
an amount equal to the operating income of
T & T for that year.


﻿-7-
(ii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation of
T & T" means the gross value of fixed assets in
operation of T & T as revalued from time to
time, based on appropriate valuation methods
approved by the Bank, less accumulated straight-
line depreciation.
(iii) the term "operating income" means the difference
between operating revenues and operating expenses.
(iv) the term "operating revenues" means all revenues
from T & T's telecommunications operations and
other revenues incidental thereto.
(v) the term "operating expenses" means all costs of
operation by T & T of its telecommunication
facilities, including overhead costs, maintenance
expenses, taxes, if any, and adequate provision
for straight-line depreciation, but excluding
-   interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times cause T & T to
operate and maintain its plant, equipment and property, and to
make promptly all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
Section 4.06. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created


﻿-8-
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of T & T or otherwise materially affecting the powers and
responsibilities of T & T, without the prior agreement of the
Bank; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the


﻿-9-
Borrower for the financing of the Project,
including, without limitation, the German
Financing, the ADB Loan or the Japanese
Financing, shall have been suspended, cancel-
led or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefer, or
(B) any such loan, including, without limitation,
the German Financing, the ADB Loan or the
Japanese Financing, shall become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof; namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date                >           is hereby
specified for the purposes       S   tion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment:                                   ) 100% of   -
) foreign ex-
(a) Cable and distri-       20,500,000      ) penditures,
tribution network                      ) or, if manu-
equipmen; for                          ) factured
Part A (',) of the                     ) locally, 100%
Project                                ) of local ex-
) penditures
(b) Toll ticketing           9,000,000      ) (ex-factory)
equipment for                          )
Part B (1) of                          )
the Project                            )
(c) Coaxial Cable            1,340,000      )
equipment for                          )
Parts B (7) and                        )
C (3) of the                           )
Project                                )
(d) Telex and tele-            160,000      )
graph equipment                        )
for Part D (2)                         )
of the Project                         )
(e) Computer for             1,500,000         100% of for-
Part E of the                             eign expendi-
Project                                   tures
(2) Consultants' services            50,000         100% of
foreign
expenditures
(3) Unallocated                   7,450,000
TOTAL        40,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, designed to assist T & T in implementing its
FY 1982-86 Program for modernization and expansion of local,
long-distance and international telecommunications facilities, and
improvements in financial and operational management, consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Local Network Improvement and Expansion
The installation of telecommunications facilities for about
52,000 additional subscribers' lines, providing:
(1) exchanges and telephones, including replacements,
and
(2) cables and distribution network, including replacements.
Part B:   Improvement and Expansion of Long-Distance Facilities
1.   The installation of toll ticketing equipment for at
least 200,000 subscribers' lines.
2.   The installation of up to three additional wideband
microwave system (RF) channels, each with an additional capacity
of 960 circuits, on the arterial microwave system linking Karachi,
Lahore and Islamabad.
3.   The installation of a 1,800-channel microwave system
linking Karachi with Peshawar, via Quetta and Dera Ismail Khan.
4.   The installation of about 2,000 additional circuits on
existing subscribers' long-distance dialing routes.
5.   The installation of about 500 additional long-distance
circuits on subsidiary routes serving existing, as well as about
200 additional, small exchanges.
6.   The installation of about 300 Public Call Offices in
rural areas.
7.   The renovation of coaxial cables from Karachi to Rawal-
pindi and Lahore.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:   Extension of International Telecommunications Facilities
The installation of:
1.   an earth station at Islamabad;
2.   an international gateway exchange at Islamabad; and
3.   a coaxial cable from Lahore to Wagah.
Part D:   Expansion of Telex and Telegraph Facilities
1.   The installation of telex facilities for about 1,600
additional subscribers.
2.   Expansion of existing telex and telegraph networks.
Part E:   Data Processing Facilities
The installation of a computer for processing technical and
operational data, including preparation of subscribers' bills.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1987
through   September 15, 2001               1,335,000
On March 15, 2002                               1,285,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                             3.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                               6.40%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            9.30%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          10.45%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation of the
goods, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery of the goods, pursuant to the bid, shall not
be taken into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods for the Project in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods
manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 18 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the methods and stages that will be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.


﻿- 19 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines


﻿- 20 -
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L       day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRET-AKY


