Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23836-AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.45 MILLION
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 22, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 2002)
Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
US$1 = 4821.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCA        Association of Certified Chartered                LIL          Leaming and Innovation Credit
APL         Adaptable Program Lending                          LDP         Letter of Development Policy
ARWC        Aspheron Regional Water Company                   MED          Ministry of Economic Development
BEEP        Business Environment and Enterpnse Performance    MOF          Ministry of Finance
Survey
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                       MOH          Ministry of Health
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment       MOLSPP       Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
COM         Cabinet of Ministers                               MTEF        Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
CPIA        Country Performance Indicator Assessment          NBA          National Bank of Azerbaijan
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report              MED         Ministry of Economic Development
DFITA       Department of Foreign Investment and Technical    MOF          Ministry of Finance
Assistance
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  NGO          Non-Govemment Organization
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program       PAD          Project Appraisal Document
ESW         Economic Sector Work                              PIU          Project Implementation Unit
COM         Cabinet of Ministers                              PHC          Pnmary Health Care
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment                         PIP          Public Investment Program
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Services              PPIAF        Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
FMR         Financial Monitonng Report                        PPF          Project Preparation Facility
FMS         Financial Management System                       PRGF         Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
GATS        General Agreement on Trade and Services           PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                            RFP          Request for Proposal
HBS         Household Budget Survey                           SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
IAS         Intemational Accounting Standards                 SDR          Special Drawing Rights, I SDR= 1 26 USS
IBTA        Institution Building Technical Assistance         SOCAR        State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
IBRD        Intemational Bank of Reconstruction and Development  SOE       Statement of Expenditure
ICM         Initial Concept Memorandum                -       SSA          State Statistical Agency
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment                         SSC          State Statistical Committee
IDA         Intemational Development Association              SSP          State Social Protection
IDPs        Intemally Displaced Populations                   TA           Technical Assistance
IFC         Intemational Finance Corporation                  TEI          Teacher Education Institutions
IFI         Intemational Finance Institutions                 TIMS         Treasury Information Management System
IMF         Intemational Monetary Fund                        UNDP         United Nation Development Program
I-PRSP     Intenm Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper            VAT          Value-Added Tax
IFC         Intemational Finance Corporation
IFI         Intemational Finance Institutions
Vice President:         Johannes Linn, (ECA)
Country Director:          Judy O'Connor, (ECC03)
Sector Director:         Cheryl Gray, (ECSPE)
Sector Leader:         Samuel Otoo, (ECSPE)
Team Leader:          Mansour Farsad, (ECSPE)



AZERBAIJAN
SECOND INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          15
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Enviromnental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    19



2. Critical risks                                                                     19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            73
MAP(S)
IBRD Map No. 27426



AZERBAIJAN
Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: May 22, 2002                                  Team Leader: Mansour Farsad
Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor                  Sector Manager: Samuel K. E. Otoo
Project ID: P066100                                 Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
7i,PTRKTR7 ;l        UF t-.-';--, 7, E-  7777 =B' ''S . -w X7  1IDF            .    ';    1-At     a
[ ]Loan      [X] Credit    [ ]Grant      [ iGuarantee      [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.45 equivalent (SDR 7.47 million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                           Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                               Service charge: 0.75%
Snn«-lnlSm:ii^sSuc               +    ;r- ,- *-.  -rf~ i -.Si ;-o'7           gnaJ.ia §F.o. 
BORROWER                                                          0.63           0.37           1.00
IDA                                                               2.59           6.86           9.45
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                          0.00           2.90           2.90
(USAID)_______
Total:                                                            3.22           10.13         13.35
Borrower: AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN INVESTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan
Address: Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Nail Fataliev, Deputy' Head
Department on Economy and Financial Credit Policy
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance
Address: Samed Vurgun 83, 370601 Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Heidar Asadov
Deputy Minister of Finance
Tel: (994-12) 93-07-43           Fax: (994-12) 98-79-69             Email:
Ministry of Economic Development
Address: Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Ulvi Nayil Seyid-zadeh, Head, Department Foreign Investment and International Economic
Cooperation



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FLEu;>|§ 02 -20tf 0i2OO04'                     ~  .2005.'             w                --.~06 I= >
Annual      1.37      2.32      2.36       1.93      1.47
Cumulative     1.37,,    3.69       6.05      7.98      9.45
Project implementation period: July 2002 - Dec 2006 (4.5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 07/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OM PAD FA.- PF M.bdl
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Govemment of Azerbaijan has made significant progress in achieving economic stability and
recovery during the past three years. Strong reform momentum has been notable in the areas of
macroeconomic policy, financial sector reform and privatization On the other hand, deep structural
reforms in the areas of govemance and the public sector have moved more slowly.
To improve the transparency and effectiveness of public resources for the provision of goods and
services, IDA is preparing this technical assistance credit to provide the needed resources and expertise
to the officials to implement the required reform policies. More specifically, the proposed IBTA II is
intended to provide technical assistance to support the policy measures to be implemented under the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-Il discussed at the Board on March 12, 2002), which
focuses on: improving transparency and accountability in public financial management; strengthening
the tracking of poverty-reducing public expenditures and monitoring their impact; improving the
strategic priority setting and transparency of public expenditures; and promoting private sector
development
In line with these objectives, the proposed Credit is prepared with the twin goals of providing
assistance in the design and implementation of the Govermment's reform program, and of helping to
build up the institutional capacity and skills to carry out these programs. The proposed Credit is
divided into the following components: (i) to enhance accountability in public financial management;
(ii) to strengthen public expenditure management capacities, including the implementation of a fully
functional, automated Treasury system; (iii) to reform social expenditures; and (iv) to promote
privatization and private sector development.
The activities under these components will help the Govenmment to improve the delivery of public
services through reforming institutional arrangements that they provide better incentives for service
providers to perform efficiently and effectively. These activities will also improve the budget
management process and hence the efficiency of budgetary resources, and will increase accountability
in the public sector through better monitoring and analysis of information from beneficiaries.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following are broad outcome and output indicators of the project. Annex 1 lists more detailed
indicators for monitoring the progress of each activity under the project components.
Key outcome indicators include:
* Improved public financial management evidenced by audit reports of the Chamber of Accounts
indicating compliance with the Budget Systems Law, the Procurement Law, the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework, and the Public Investment Program.
* A reduction in the quasi-fiscal deficits evidenced by the periodic reports provided by line ministries
to the Ministry of Finance.
*  Improvement in the business environment evidenced by the results of the annual survey of business
environment
*  The adoption of intemational standards and compliance with privatization guidelines provided by
- 3-



IDA (e.g., use of reputable financial advisers for transactions such as Gas Distribution and Water
Distribution).
Key output indicators for enhancing accountability in public financial management include:
* Building institutional capacity to comply with the Procurement Law.
* Building institutional capacity in the Chamber of Accounts to conduct audits as the supreme audit
organization.
For strengthening the public expenditure management capacities the performance indicators are:
*  A medium-term expenditure framework, including a public investment program, based on sector
strategy and programs.
*  Strengthened Treasury operations including the needed institutional framework, systems and
procedures (see Annex 11 for details).
Key indicators for reformning social expenditures include:
* The institutional capacity in the Ministries of Health and Education for better analysis and
targeting of health and education spending.
* A more efficient medium term safety net system with a better targeted social assistance program.
* The institutional capacity for poverty monitoring and an update of the poverty profile for the
country.
*  Labor affected by reforms benefits from pre-layoff and post-layoff services and temporary income
support.
For promoting privatization and private sector development, key performance indicators are:
* The implementation of the recommendations of the FIAS study on business environment
* A more transparent and effective privatization process.
* Preparation of Gas and Water Distribution enterprises for privatization.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: IDA/R 99-157/1 [IFC/R 99-145/1] Date of latest CAS discussion: 9/14/1999
The Project will address two of the three major CAS goals: the reform of public sector institutions,
and the strengthening of the regulatory and business environment for private sector development. The
latest CAS envisages the role of IDA and other partners as helping the authorities and civil society to
establish an appropriate institutional and policy framework which will help Azerbaijan achieve good
governance and inclusive development The IDA-supported three-pronged strategy to deal with this
objective consists of:
* Reforming public sector institutions
* Strengthening the business environment for private sector development
* Investing in social development, including targeted poverty alleviation measures.
The first two goals will be dealt with by the emphasis of IBTA-II on providing support and
technical assistance for implementing the public sector reform program supported by the SAC-II.
Direct and substantial support for these goals will enable the project to complement and support the
-4 -



Government in its attempt to resist the pressures of spending the expected oil revenues unwisely and,to
promote broad-based economic development which will meet the needs of the majority of the
population.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Public sector and institutional reform has become a critical issue at this stage of Azerbaijan's
development process. This is because experience elsewhere has shown that when public institutions do
not clearly set the rules of the game and the necessary systems of checks and balances are not in place,
opportunities can emerge for rent seeking behavior. This behavior often impedes growth by inhibiting
healthy entrepreneurial activity and competition, leading to misallocation, and to ineffective use of a
country's scarce resources. The project seeks to assist the Government in introducing public sector and
institutional reforms to better define the rules of the game and to put in place the processes for the
transparent application of these rules, as well as the necessary checks and balances to reduce the
opportunity for rent seeking behavior.
These reforms will become all the more important because revenues from energy resources will
increase over the next few years and mechanisms will need to be established to ensure efficient and
effective use of these resources in support of the development objectives and a more equitable and
inclusive growth. Reform of the public sector is needed to accelerate the development of the non-oil
economy, to improve financial discipline, and to increase efficiency of poverty-reducing public
expenditures. As is discussed below, reforming the public sector has major dimensions: in the
management of financial resources, in the management of human resources, and, more important, in the
formulation and implementation of public policies and programs.
The Government strategy recognizes that financial reporting and audit capacitv needs to be
strengthened. This requires coordination and cooperation mechanisms between the existing audit
entities so that the audit entities can institute basic systems for transparency and accountability across
the country. The public procurement process also needs to become more competitive and transparent.
The Government's objective for strengthening the expenditure management process and capacities
is to make the budget function as a mechanism for priority setting and decision making in the allocation
of resources to priority social needs. Many of the key elements of a budgetary system in Azerbaijan are
underdeveloped. The budgetary process and procedures must provide a realistic and prioritized
resource allocation and must ensure that public services funded through the budget are appropriate and
adequate to the needs of the population. The public expenditure management process must ensure that
the gains expected from energy exports are efficiently used and that the Treasury operation and
associated systems and procedures serve as efficient instrument for budget execution.
Service delivery also needs to be more efficient. Rationalizing of social expenditures and building
up the capacity to monitor the impact of these expenditures are critical to targeting such expenditures
to the poor. Additionally, the current policy framework for the electricity and gas sectors should be
carefully reassessed to make them sustainable. Serious govemance and economic issues need to be
addressed in order to improve service delivery in these areas.
The Govemment has made substantial progress in the privatization programn with the privatization
of small and medium-size businesses and of land and equipment in agriculture. Under the new program,
as set out in the Law and Presidential Decree on the Second Privatization Program, smaller enterprises
can be privatized by order of the Minister of Economic Development and larger enterprises by order of
the President. Around 70 auctions of small and medium-size enterprises have been held since the start
- 5-



of the program. The Government is currently preparing for the President's consideration a list of 450
public enterprises in the machinery, oil, chemical, and food sectors to privatize in the course of the
program, and has also announced a list of enterprises to be privatized during the 2001-03 period. The
authorities have requested IDA involvement to ensure the integrity of the process through compliance
with international standards of transparency.
The Govermment has also taken measures to significantly reduce obstacles for private sector
development. The licensing regime is being reviewed, and the introduction of modern criminal, civil and
tax codes will lighten the burden of the tax regime and will increase its objectivity. A Presidential Decree
was issued in late 2000 abolishing all internal inspection/control departments in the ministries, except for
the Internal Audit Department in the Ministry of Finance. A diagnostic review of the investment climate
was initiated in November 2001, with FIAS, to evaluate changes taking place since a 1999 survey on
business environment and enterprise perfornance. The diagnostic study includes a review of the legal and
institutional framework for investment, comparing it with the situation in competitor countries, evaluating
impediments, and making concrete recommendations.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address key sectoral concerns identified above through an integrated package of
technical assistance and institution building.
a) The project will provide a wide range of support aimed at strengthening the public expenditure
management process and capacities, including the establishment of a medium-term expenditure
framework and public investment program; improvement in the expenditure evaluation capacity; and
the implementation of a transaction-based Treasury Ledger System and the centralization of all
Government payments through the Treasury,
b) The project's support to increase the effectiveness of financial controls will include the
establishment of a functioning external audit system; improvement in the financial reporting systems;
and, the implementation of a modern public procurement system,
c) The project also aims at improving public services, particularly in the social sectors, and will
strengthen the capacity for the monitoring and analysis of poverty issues,
d) The project will provide a variety of technical assistance for private sector development, including:
labor redeployment, continued privatization, reduction of impediments to business development, and
periodic surveys to measure the progress made in improving the business environment and
curbing rent seeking behavior.
Strategic Choices: Substantial foreign investments have been made in the country's natural
resources, and the benefits of these will begin to emerge within a few years as the remaining
investments are completed. Azerbaijan is now at a juncture which offers a unique opportunity to put in
place the institutional reforms and processes that will provide the required transparency to ensure that
the entire nation can benefit from the country's patrimony. It is therefore important for the Government
to act now so that so that these reforms are already in place once the benefits of the country's natural
resources begin to flow. The project will assist the Government in addressing these concerns in a timely
fashion by delivering the institution building and technical assistance within the time frame of IBTA-II.
Parallel with the intensification of structural reforms during the last couple of years, and in view of
- 6 -



Azerbaijan's development needs and the limitations on domestic capacity, a strategic decision was
made to use a two-pronged approach to assist the Government in the implementation of its SAC
supported reform objectives. The first is to provide the needed human resources and to address the
critical skill gap that has slowed the preparation and implementation of the reform program in the past.
The second is to provide support for institution building and to strengthen domestic capacity. Thus, by
supporting a selected number of priority areas, the Project will ensure that Azerbaijan will have the
capacity to implement and sustain reform in the medium term.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project consists of five components to address the key issues identified in Section B,
above. These components comprise: (i) enhancing accountability in public financial management services;
(ii) strengthening public expenditure management capacities; (iii) reforming social expenditures; (iv)
promoting privatization and private sector development; and (v) financing the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) to support the implementation of this Credit. The components, and their subcomponents are
summarized below.
Enhancing Accountability in Public Financial Management ($1.01 million)
This component includes: (i) providing the Government with the means to implement the Public
Procurement Law and recommendations of the forthcoming CPAR through appropriate and effective
institutional arrangements; and (ii) assisting the Chamber of Accounts to design and develop an appropriate
professional and institutional capacity and to maintain a legislative framework to enhance the public sector
financial management and to implement recommendations of the forthcoming CFAA.
Strengthening Public Expenditure Management Capacities ($7.12 million)
The two subcomponents will assist the Government in: (i) strengthening the appraisal capacity of
the public investment program by setting up a Public Investment Appraisal Division in the Ministry of
Economic Development.; and (ii) assisting the Government to design and implement a fully functional,
automated Treasury System, that would serve as an effective instrument for budget execution and cash
management.
Reforming Social Expenditures ($230 million)
This component covers the following four subcomponents: (i) reviewing and analyzing health
expenditures to strengthen the effectiveness and pro-poor targeting of these expenditures consistent with
PRSP priorities; (ii) examining education expenditures to strengthen the effectiveness and pro-poor
targeting of these expenditures consistent with PRSP priorities; (iii) defining an effective medium-term
safety net strategy that will enhance targeting of social assistance, will support the poorest and most
vulnerable groups, and will mitigate the social impact of new public utility policies; (iv) building up
capacity in the State Statistical Office and Ministry of Economic Development to ensure delivery and
regular analysis of high quality household budget survey data; and (v) undertaking significant labor
conversion and staff reductions associated with enterprise privatization and restructuring, among other
things, by providing pre-layoff assistance to workers and post layoff temporary income support and labor
redeployment services.
-7 -



Promoting Privatization and Private Sector Development ($2.24 million)
The activities under this category would support: (i) implementing the recommendations of the
business environment study (conducted by FIAS) and providing funding for the monitoring process to track
progress made in this area; (ii) providing financial advice and technical and legal consultants for the
privatization process of Gas and Water distribution.
Project Management ($0.68 million)
The Credit would also support the project implementation and would cover the cost of project
management.
I - Enhancing Accountability in  Institutional         1.01       7.6      0.95      10.1
Public Fin. Mgmt.                Development
2 - Improving Public Exp. Management Institutional     7.12      53.3      3.69      39.0
Process                          Development
3 - Reforming Social Exp.        Institutional         2.30      17.2      2.18      23.1
Development
4 - Promoting Privatization & Private  Institutional   2.24      16.8      2.00      21.2
Sector Development               Development
5 - Project Management (Op. Costs)  Institutional      0.68       5.1      0.63       6.7
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ D evelopm ent_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total Project Costs                  13.35     100.0      9.45      100.0
Total Financing Required                    13.35     100.0      9.45     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The public sector reform program of the project aims at increasing the accountability of the
executive through implementation of the public procurement law, more efficient use of internal and extemal
audit and other financial controls.
A key objective of the project is to improve and strengthen public expenditure management process
and capacities by providing greater transparency and accountability in the management of public resources.
By improving Treasury operations it will also assist in the implementation of effective public expenditure
control regulations to manage the level and the timing of expenditures, including: (i) financial control (i.e.,
the approval and authorization stages of proposals to spend public moneys before a commitment is entered
into); (ii) accounting control (i.e., including the certification of claims for payment before a payment is
made); and (iii) audit control (i.e., the ex post review of expenditure undertaken). By rationalizing social
expenditures the project will enhance the effectiveness of these expenditures and their pro-poor targeting
Another key development objective is to support labor redeployment policies, faster privatization of
large enterprises, and improvements in the business environment for private sector development.
- 8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Azerbaijan currently experiences limited institutional capacity and human resource skills for
designing and implementing reform programs. The proposed Credit would help to alleviate these
constraints and would ensure the development of the required domestic capacity. It would also strengthen
the institutional framework for mobilizing and coordinating technical assistance for implementing reforms.
The policy and institutional reforms supported by the proposed project will have a positive impact
on the population. First, enhancing accountability in public financial management is expected to lead to a
more transparent public decision making process. Second, improving governance and expenditure
management will positively affect the delivery of essential public services. Third, improving expenditure
control will have an immediate and beneficial impact on social expenditures as well as on the reduction of
existing arrears of wages and pensions and on the avoidance of fresh arrears. Fourth, reforming social
expenditures is expected to lead to improvements in the delivery of these services and to have a beneficial
impact on the vulnerable sections of the population.
Promoting privatization is expected to lead to more investment activities and to increase
employment opportunities. This, together with measures to address corporate govemance, are expected to
encourage private sector development and greatly increase foreign direct investment. There are a number of
other anticipated benefits, direct and indirect, some of which have been outlined in the table below.
Target Population
Benefit                Direct Beneficiaries          Indirect Beneficiaries
Strengthening           Government, Parliament, Ministry      Taxpayers, Citizens
Expenditure             of Finance, Line Ministries, Local
Management Capacities   Governments, Budgetary
Employees, Recipients of Social
Assistance, Users of Public Goods
and Services, Pensioners.
Reforming Public        Government, Parliament, All           Private Sector
Procurement             central and local budgetary
entities, domestic and foreign
suppliers and contractors
Improving Audit and     Parliament, Government, Ministry      Taxpayers, Citizens
Financial Controls      of Finance, Line Ministries, Local
Governments, Public Enterprises.
Improving Effectiveness  Ministry of Finance, Ministries of   Vulnerable Groups,
of Social Expenditures  Health, Education, Labor and          Citizens
Social Protection,
Promoting Privatization  Government, Ministry of Finance,     Private Sector, Citizens
and Private Sector      Entrepreneurs (Domestic And
Development             Foreign)
-9-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation of this project will extend over four- and -one-half years to finance technical
assistance in key sectors of the economy where such support is critically needed. Given the generally weak
institutional capacity in Azerbaijan, effective project implementation arrangements can mitigate some of the
implementation risks (see Section F).
The Government has assigned the existing Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for IBTA-I to
cover project coordination and implementation for IBTA-II. The day-to-day project coordination and
implementation responsibility lies with the PIU whose responsibilities include monitoring the
implementation progress under the proposed Credit, as well as coordinating various participating
ministries, project beneficiaries, and procurement agencies to ensure a consistent approach in the
implementation of the project. The PIU will also be responsible for the monitoring and control of IDA
funds, the administration of the special account, and the preparation of the consolidated progress report and
Project Completion Report.
The PIU will be under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Economic Development. However,
in view of the need for frequent inter-ministerial coordination and decisions, the Department of Economic
and Financial Credit Policy (DEFCP) of the Cabinet of Ministers will also assist in the implementation of
the project. The PIU staff will be led by a manager who would have overall responsibility for the project.
He will be assisted by a financial specialist with responsibility for project finance and accounting, and a
procurement specialist who would advise and assist with all procurement procedures and monitor their
implementation. The PIU will also have two support staff.
Key features of the proposed implementation arrangements are presented below, and further details
are given in Annex 6:
* All work relating to project procurement, disbursement, financial management, and project
monitoring will be centralized in the P1U and assigned to experienced consultants.
*  The current staff of the IBTA-I PIU will also perform IBTA fl-related functions as part of their
normal duties. In particular, the accountant and the disbursement office will ensure appropriate
authorization of the documents.
* Administrative and executive authority with respect to all other aspects of project implementation
solely rest with Government personnel. This will ensure borrower's ownership and commitment to
smooth and effective project execution.
* Line ministries and agencies will appoint appropriate senior officials for handling the
implementation of technical assistance components for their ministries. These activities would need to
be coordinated with the PIU. Only after the designated official in the beneficiary agency signs off will
requests for payment be processed by the PIU.
The beneficiary agencies include the following: (i) Ministry of Economic Development and DEFCP
(oversight and coordination of IBTA Ll); (ii) Ministry of Finance (public expenditure reform; reform of
audit and financial controls; Treasury operations; (iii) Ministry of Economic Development (public
investment program; private sector development); (vi) Ministry of Health (health expenditures reform); (vii)
Ministry of Education (education expenditures reform); (viii) Minister of Labor and Social Protection
(social assistance reform and labor redeployment); (ix) State Agency for Procurement (public procurement
reform); (x) Chanber of Accounts (extemal audit reform).
- 10-



Financial Management and Accounting
Project Financial Management: A financial management system for the project will be
maintained within the PIU where project accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing arrangements will
be carried out. The accounts will be maintained in accordance with the borrower's regulations, with
internationally accepted accounting principles as well as IDA's guidelines. The Ministry of Economic
Development and the DEFCP will handle all coordination with IDA, including the preparation and
submission of withdrawal requests.
In order to assist the PIU in maintaining an appropriate financial management system acceptable to
the Bank, the PIU has already purchased a commonly used accounting software "IC" preparing Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
Audits: The annual audits will be carried out in accordance with the relevant international
standards and Bank guidelines as outlined in The World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and
Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual (exposure draft). A short list of auditors
have been provided to the IDA and the auditors for the project has been selected and appointed.
Disbursements/Project Financial Reporting Requirements: The PIU is already familiar with
producing FMRs. During the initial period and before the PIU gains more experience in producing FMRs,
disbursements may use traditional methods i.e., Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) reimbursements, direct
payment, etc. Once the PIU has gained experience with the financial management system (FMS) and
reporting under Financial Management Reports, the project would move to FMR-based disbursements.
Flow of Funds/Special Account: To facilitate timely implementation of project activities, the
Government will establish a Special Account. In addition, a Project Account in local currency will be
opened to facilitate payment for project expenditures financed from counterpart funds. The Ministry of
Finance will initially deposit $50,000 in the Project Account to cover contractual obligations, with
replenishment made as this amount is drawn down. The administration of the Special Account and Project
Account, including preparation of withdrawal applications and replenishment of the accounts, will be the
responsibility of the PIU.
The authorized allocation to be disbursed to the Special Account will not exceed a maximum
amount of 10 percent of the Credit amount Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly
basis and will include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The
minimum application size for payments directly from the Credit Account for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20 percent of the Special Account authorized allocation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Learning and Investment Credit. This alternative was considered and rejected by the project team
for the following reasons: (i) the limitation on the amount of the credit, which would render the project
unfeasible; (ii) the lack of resources for preparation, keeping in mind that the intensity of effort to prepare a
LIL is as much as that of any other operation; and (iii) the lack of scope within a LIL to accommodate the
several areas which need to be addressed.



Stand-alone technical assistance creditfor public sector reform. The option to process only a
TA loan without an adjustment operation like SAC-II would have less impact and be more risky since the
policy conditionality under the adjustment operation provides the bases for the technical assistance. This is
a lesson drawn from many other IBTA operations in other countries as well as in Azerbaijan, and this
option was accordingly rejected.
A free-standing technical assistance projectfor Treasury operation was also considered but was
rejected for programming reasons, i.e. the delays and costs of a new operation
Donor (grant) financed technical assistance. This type of assistance was actively considered for
some elements of the project. The task team has been in close and constant contact with other development
agencies for this purpose, such as with the UNDP, EU-TACIS, DFID, and others. Sufficient grant funding
was not readily available and additionally there was considerable uncertainty to both its availability and
timing. It has been the experience that if grant assistance is not available on time or fails to materialize
when needed, it disrupts the sequencing of the reform measures and can lead to failure of the program.
Co-financing for various activities was actively sought. USAID has committed $2.9 million grant
fimds for the costs associated with the application of software and its related consultancies and training for
the Treasury operations. These have been included in the Treasury subcomponent of the project. IDA is
also coordinating with all donor partners involved, including TACIS which has agreed to provide grant
funding for the various activities of the State Procurement Agency.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supgervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Riatings
.__ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ________ __(Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-flnanced                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Structural Adjustment Credit      S             S
(SAC)
Institution Building Technical    S             S
Assistance Project
Reform of Education Sector        Education Reform Project (LIL)    S             S
Improvement of Environmental      Urgent Environmental              S             S
Management Structures and Systems  Investment Project
Reform of the System of Pension and  Pension/Social Assistance
Social Assistance                 Project (planned)
Reform of Health Sector           Health Project (planned)
Structural Adjustment Credit-Il   S             S
Other development agencies
IMF                               ESAF
Payments System
Banking Supervision
EBRD                              Privatization of IBA
UNDP                              Preparation of the Chart of
Accounts
IP/DO Rafings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Technical assistance projects have a mixed performance record both within the Bank Group and in
the ECA Region. Without adequate technical assistance in place, however, essential policy and institutional
reformns cannot be implemented successfully and are unlikely to be sustainable. Intemational experience
has shown that ownership and commitment are best nurtured by consultation with all relevant stakeholders
and with responsibility for project design and implementation devolved to the lowest level consistent with
capacity and economies of scale.
Key country-specific lessons which have been learned and applied in the design of the proposed
project from the first Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit (IBTA-I) for Azerbaijan, which is
nearing completion, and from other TA/investrnent operations in Azerbaijan, include:
* Technical assistance operations need to be well designed and need to be kept on track during
implementation to minimize focus on purchase of computers, without strong capacity building or
institutional development actions. The technical assistance needs have been reflected in detailed terms
of reference for the various project activities.
*   Successful technical assistance not only assists in completing a set of agreed actions but also helps
to put in place sufficient capacity and a sustainable process by which reforms can be institutionalized
in different branches of the Government. Such institution-building actions and processes are difficult
and long-term by nature, and require considerable technical assistance to implement and sustain.
Hence, the task team has hence tried to keep the implementation period of the project to at least
four-and-a half years for the needed absorptive capacity to be built up within Govemment.
* Procurement and financial management capacity within Government is quite limited: unless it is
strengthened, such poor capacity may adversely affect project implementation and sustainability
because the sequencing of the reform process may be disrupted by the lack of availability of the needed
technical assistance when required.
* Implementation arrangements should receive careful attention, as managers in implementing line
ministries may find it difficult to manage consultants and perform the day-to-day follow-up. The PIU
needs to have access to decision-makers, the authority to enforce compliance by line ministries, and the
credibility to bring people from different ministries together to implement the projects.
All of the above have been reflected in the project design, which:
•  Focuses on the strengthening of processes
*  Emphasizes preparation of consensus-based action plans
*  Stresses implementation and oversight of the reformn process by the borrower
*  Stresses the importance of effective procurement and financial management arrangements
* Links the provision of technical assistance as much as is feasible to meeting SAC-Il conditionality.
*  Has been developed with strong participation of the Govermment agencies and other stakeholders
- 13 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to the reform process is evidenced by the significant reform steps
taken in the last couple of years. These reforms are expected to provide a sound basis for increasing
employment and real incomes, to improve public sector and utility services, and to accelerate private sector
development. Further deepening of these reforms is being supported by SAC-II. Particular support is being
given to: imnproving transparency and accountability in public financial management, strengthening the
monitoring of the impact of poverty-reducing public expenditures, improving strategic priority setting and
the transparency of medium-term public expenditure and investment programs; introducing transparency
and financial discipline in the energy sector; reducing conflicts of interest and corruption in the business
enviromnent; and improving the privatization process.
The proposed Second Institution Building and Technical Assistance Credit would provide the
support needed to implement these reforms and to bolster crucial components of the Government's
structural reform program that are intended to enhance public sector efficiency and accelerate the growth of
the non-oil sector. Thus, in line with the Govemment's commitment to deepen the reforms, the proposed
IBTA II would aim to strengthen: (i) govemance; (ii) the transparency of budget execution and accounting;
(iii) the implementation of a budget system which ensures aggregate fiscal discipline and addresses sector
priorities strategically; and (iv) the implementation of effective extemal and internal audit capacity. The
Govemment's main interest in borrowing from IDA is to mobilize essential expertise for the implementation
of this reform program as well as development of skills to enable efficient management and sustainability of
reforms.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank Group's support for the successful implementation of the reform process in Azerbaijan
is crucial. The Bank Group is well placed to respond to Government requests for assistance by combining
policy advice with financial and technical assistance. The Bank's comparative intemational experience will
assist Azerbaijan in its attempt to reform the public sector.
The Bank Group has also done extensive work in most of the areas covered by the proposed project
and could benefit the Govemment through its institutional knowledge in successful public sector reform
programs. It has also developed close and cordial working relationships with major counterparts, thereby
enhancing its credibility and the acceptability of its policy advice.
Over the course of the past two years, the policy environment in Azerbaijan has changed. The
success of the stabilization program, growing foreign investor interest, and the prospects and risks of
large-scale oil revenues have combined to strengthen the reforms. Renewed reforms did not stem from a
need to deal with a debt or related financing crisis. The advent of the PRSP process provided an important
opportunity for the IMF and the World Bank to re-engage the dialogue with the Government on a medium
term economic development strategy with the twin objectives of tackling poverty and strengthening
govemance. The Govemment's I-PRSP envisages a broad-ranging program that aims to achieve major
reforms in public sector management, the business environment and social development during the next two
to three years. Important measures have already been adopted in a number of areas, leading to the approval
of the PRGF arrangement by the IMF in July 2001. The proposed IBTA-Il Credit would support the
implementation of policy measures designed to catalyze further action in some of the most politically
sensitive and technically complex areas of the Government's program.
- 14 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not Applicable
Fiscal Impact:
The public sector reform component and the institutional development support provided under the
proposed lIBTA-Il project would reduce budgetary employment, and thus wage bill expenditures, in the
longer term. In addition, improved public expenditure management processes and practices (including a
more transparent procurement process) would improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public
enterprises. Moreover, the implementation of improved audit and financial controls would improve the
effectiveness of budgetary outlays and reduce wasteful expenditure. The implementation of a fully
functional and automated Treasury system would also serve as an effective instrument for budget execution
and cash management.
3. Technical:
Azerbaijan has insufficient expertise and skills to undertake comprehensive public sector and other
structural reforms. The project would ensure that the Government of Azerbaijan has access to high-quality
expertise through recruiting qualified intemational consultants. The administrative burden placed on
Government staff has been minimnized by packaging the operation into as few contracts as possible.
4. Institutional:
The proposed project would help build the needed capacity, including the capacity for project
implementation and coordination, procurement, and financial management, through implementation
assistance, expert policy advice, institution building, and training.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The PIU will need to play a strong coordination role in view of the numerous beneficiary agencies.
Assistance for the implementation of subcomponents will be provided to entities such as the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, and
the Ministry Labor and Social Protection. These entities have limited capacity in terms of procurement and
need regular consultation with the PIU on this issue. The State Procurement Agency has developed some
capacity as a result of earlier technical assistance. The Chamber of Accounts, which is in charge of audit
and financial controls was established only recently.
4.2 Project management:
- 15 -



The Ministry of Economy will have the overall responsibility for the project. The day-to-day
project implementation responsibility will lie with the PIU. The responsibility of the PIU includes
monitoring progress under the proposed credit, overall project implementation, and coordinating various
participating ministries, project beneficiaries, and procurement agencies to ensure a consistent approach in
the implementation of the project. The PIU would also be responsible for the monitoring and control of IDA
funds, the administration of the special account, and the preparation of the consolidated progress report and
Project Completion Report.
In view of the need for frequent intemlinisterial coordination and decisions, the DEFCP will also
assist in the implementation of the project. The DEFCP, which is in the Cabinet of Ministers, is relatively
well placed organizationally to intervene if necessary. The DEFCP also has experience in dealing with
intemational financial institutions. In addition, the status of the Cabinet of Ministers as a constitutional
entity will enable it to supervise executive entities who will be implementing different parts of the project.
The capacity of the PIU will also be strengthened through training in procurement and accounting. The
detailed description of implementation arrangements has been provided in Part C, above (Project
Description Summary).
4.3 Procurement issues:
Project procurement will be the responsibility of the PIU. The main procurement issues, and the
mitigating actions, are summarized below:
* The main objective of the public sector reforms is to improve govemance and transparency in the
public sector. This will require strong procurement and financial management arrangements under
IBTA II so that project procurement and financial management are as strong and as transparent as they
can possibly be.
*  Govemment procurement capacity is extremely weak. This has been manifested in procurement
delays under IBTA-I, as well as in procurements under the PPF approved for the IBTA II. A qualified
and experienced procurement consultant to assist the PIU has been recruited. He will also train and
assist the local PIU staff in implementing the procurement aspects of the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management system for the project will be maintained in the PIU. The PIU has already
purchased an accounting software capable of producing the required PMRs. The significant strengths that
provide a basis for relying on the project financial management system include: (i) the experience of the
PIU in implementing IDA-assisted projects and satisfying financial management requirements; and (ii) the
unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued, under the previous project (IBTA-1) by
the auditor.
The financial management arrangements of the projects are adequate insofar: the capacity of the
PIU has been fully assessed during appraisal; a satisfactory financial management system is in place
(which assisted the PPF); the project auditor has been appointed. The only matters requiring attention prior
to the start of project implementation relate to the fine-tuning of the project's accounting software to
incorporate and reflect final disbursement categories, disbursement percentages and project activities (as
agreed on at Negotiations) and also any specific reporting requirements that may be established by the
Govermnent. Steps will be taken to ensure that the PIU accounting and disbursement staff are fully trained.
- 16 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not Applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
To address poverty and unemployment in a comprehensive fashion, the Government has prepared
the I-PRSP (discussed at the Board on 7/5/2000) and is in the process of completing a full PRSP. Under
the IBTA-IH the Government will develop medium term program in the education and health sector to
strengthen pro-poor targeting of expenditures consistent with the PRSP. Under the project the Government
will also define an effective medium-term safety net strategy that will enhance the targeting of social
assistance, will support the poorest and most vulnerable groups, and will mitigate the social impact of new
public utility policies. To ameliorate short term negative impact of privatization and enterprise
restructuring on individual workers the project will assist the Govermnent to implement labor
redeployment program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 17 -



a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The preparation of the project followed extensive discussions with key stakeholders in the
Government ministries and agencies. This participation was carried out in the Ministries of Education,
Health, Labor and Social Protection, Economic Development, Finance, as well as the Statistical
Committee, State Procurement Agency, and Chamber of Accounts. The objective was to obtain
stakeholders support and commitment to the key project components and their goals. They recognize, for
example that enhancing accountability in public financial management is expected to lead to a more
transparent public decision making process. Improved governance and expenditure management will
promote the participatory process and will positively affect the delivery of public services. Moreover,
improved expenditure control will have an immediate and beneficial impact on social expenditures and on
the reduction of existing arrears of wages and pensions, and will avoid a build-up of fresh arrears.
Reforming social expenditures is expected to lead to improvements in the delivery of these services and will
have a positive impact on the poor and vulnerable sections of the population.
Making informed decisions on the development of poverty alleviation strategies and on the design
of new social policy measures is important for the beneficiaries of these programs. The methodology for
conducting household living standard surveys to improve estimates of household income and expenditures
and other vital data to determiine the well being of the population has recently been revised. The assistance
under IBTA-II will help to: (i) build up capacity in the State Statistical Committee to ensure the further
institutionalization of the new Household Budget Survey (HBS) and the delivery of regular high quality
household budget survey data, (ii) build up capacity in the Ministry of Economic Development in the use
of HBS data for poverty monitoring and social policy analyses, and (iii) produce, on the basis of the first
annual data set from the new HBS, results using standard poverty and inequality indicators, and an updated
poverty profile for the country. The poverty profile will serve as critical background information for
completing PRSP preparation, and will allow close monitoring of the impact of economic development and
public policies on the poor.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Please see above.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not Applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not Applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not Applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 _   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
-18 -



Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes * No
Projects in Internatdonal Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not Applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed IBTA-II project aims to improve public sector management Although it focuses on
short- to medium-term priority needs, they are essential elements that would contribute to the longer-term
sustainable growth of the economy. Project sustainability will also be enhanced through dialogue with
stakeholders and through implementation of policy measures under SAC-II.
Although the primary objectives of the proposed project are to improve selected aspects of the
functioning of the public sector, the proposed project emphasizes sustainability which goes beyond the
narrow confines of the project itself, through the measures described below:
* Most of the technical assistance (TA) related to public sector reform is oriented to building up
capacity, and providing training, in critical areas such as public expenditure management, Treasury
operations, audit and financial controls - which will promote accountability and efficiency in the long
run.
*  Many of the TA activities will deal with specific actions to improve govemance. For example, TA
to strengthen the capacity for public procurement and audit, the implementation of Treasury operations
and the associated legal and institutional framework would improve the overall level of govemance in
the country.
* Improved expenditure policies will be reflected in a consistent medium-tern expenditure
framework, based on clear priorities, and timely information for effective targeting and monitoring,
especially for poverty.
* Enhanced financial and fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability in public finances will
help to strengthen govemance and encourage investment activities.
* The proposed project emphasizes establishing robust systems for project procurement and financial
management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
There are two major risks associated with the successful implementation of the reform program being
supported by SAC-Il as well as this IBTA-II Credit:
*  The risk that the vested interests of non-reformers would complicate or delay the implementation of
key elements of the program
* The risk of implementation delays due to the limited institutional capacity of the Govermment.
There is also the political risk in view of Azerbaijan's complex political and socioeconomic
situation.
- 19 -



Against these risks, the technical assistance components provided to key ministries and other
agencies are aimed at assisting in the preparation of their respective reform programs. Close supervision
during implementation would assure that inefficiencies are addressed as needed. Procurement and
disbursement risks would be reduced through close attention to procurement and other implementation
constraints during project supervision.
It should be noted that the Government of Azerbaijan:
*  Has demonstrated a track record of some five years of responsible macro economic management,
especially of the oil boom, including notably the avoidance of large extemal debt or ill-conceived
investments
*  Re-initiated reforms last year outside the context of an IMF or IDA financed adjustment program
*   Fully engaged the public, both in the substance and in the process, of the PRSP
*  Benefited in recent years from a broad array of technical assistance from the Bank and other
donors with regard to institutional capacity.
The proposed IBTA-HI project, will complement the assistance being provided through SAC-II and
the Health, Education, and Financial Sector Credits, as well as the support from both the IMF and the
ADB.
Risk                    Risk,,Ratlng    .      Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Public Sector Reform:                       H
(i) If continued commitment of                        SAC-II has strong upfront actions which will
Govemment to the public sector reform                 mitigate this risk. Periodic surveys to assess the
agenda is lacking, the reform program and             impact of reforms and to promote an intemal
actions will not be effective.                        constituency for reform are among the
mitigation and sustainability measures
proposed.
(ii) Govenmment will not implement policy             The TA includes longer-term advisory services -
measures under SAC-II: this will make the             these will enable transfer of skills and
TA ineffective.                                       knowledge which would encourage selection of
...i) Rent seeking behavior will circumvent          more appropriate and sound policy choices.
(iii) Rent seekng behavior will circumvent            IBTA-HI and SAC -III will re-visit this issue if
institutional reforms.                                needed
From Components to Outputs
H
Public Sector Reform:
(i) Implemented actions will not be                   The project design and sustainability measures
institutionalized or sustained.                       described earlier will mitigate this risk.
(ii) Passage of critical laws and                     Some of the IMF actions also address this issue,
regulations will be delayed or laws/                  as does the SAC-Il.
regulations will be unsatisfactory.
- 20 -



(iii) Timely appointment of international           The PPF has been extended to expedite selection
and local consultants and advisers will not         of core consultants and advisers. Strong project
take place and TA will be delayed.                  procurement and financial management
Timely and adequate availability of                 arrangements are proposed to ensure timely
government facilities and counterpart               procurement. Counterparts have already been
funding will not take place which will lead         designated in all beneficiary agencies.
to delayed implementation of policy
measures and no capacity building.
Timely designation of adequately
empowered counterparts in all respective
beneficiary agencies will not take place.            Core TA is being financed by IDA to mitigate
(iv) Timely availability of technical               this risk. Donor financing has been tried.
assistance from donor partners will not be
ensured.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
As a condition of effectiveness, the Ministry of Finance will deposit $50,000 equivalent in the
Project Account.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for Negotiation:
* All conditions for Negotiations have been met.
Conditions for Board Presentation:
* None
Dated Covenant:
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
-21 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mansour Farsad                    Samuel K. E. Otoo                 Judy M. O'Connor
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Director
-22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To reform the public sector  * Improved cash         * Economic and Sector Work * Continued improvements in
and to promote private sector  management and efficincy of * Poverty Profile and survey  transparency and
development to achieve      social expenditures;     of Household Living       accountability in the public
equitable and sustainable   * Increased private sector  Standards              sector;
growth.                    development;              * National Statistics     * Enhanced social safety net
* Enhanced financial     * Sector Stategies         and targeted social assistance
reporting and audit.                               to protect the poorest.
* Increased effectiveness of
financial controls
* Increased transparency of
procurement practices
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve transparency and  * Improved public financial  * Project monitoring and  * Government's commitment
effectiveness of fiscal    management evidenced by   supervision reports       to long term reform is
resources with the provision  audit reports of the Chamber * Survey Reports    sustained.
of technical assistance to  of Accounts indicating   * Implementation and
support implementation of  compliance with the Budget Completion Report of IBTA-II
policy reforms.             Systems Law, Procurement  and SAC-II
Law, the Medium Term     * Audit Reports of the
Expenditure Framework and Chamber of Accounts
Public Investment Program. * Periodic Reports from line
* Improvement in the     ministries to the Ministry of
business environment     Finance
evidenced by the results of  * Periodic Reports from the
the business environment  Business Environment Survey
surveys.
* Adoption of intemational
standards and compliance
with privatization guidelines
provided by IDA (e.g., use of
reputable financial advisors
for transactions such as Gas
Distribution and Water
Distribution).
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Public Financial       * Institutional capacity to  *  Information Memoranda  *  Government implements
Management:               comply with procurement law  *  Closing documents    reforms under SAC-II;
- 23 -



Accountability in Public   and to conduct audits as the  *  Implementation and  * Non-reformers/vested
Financial Management      supreme audit institution by  completion reports of IBTA-II  interests do not frustrate or
enhanced.                 the Chamber of Accounts.   and SAC_II projects.      delay key elements of the
program;
* There are no
implementation delays due to
the limited institutional
capacity of the Government;
* Rent seeking behavior
circumvents institutional
reforms.
2. Public Expenditure
Management:                * MTEF and PIP prepared
Public expenditure        based on sector programs.
management capacities     * Strengthened Treasury
strengthened.             operations including needed
institutional framework,
systems, and procedures.
3. Social Expenditures     * Institutional capacity for
Reform:                   better analysis and targeting
Social expenditure framework of health and education
reformed.                 spending consistent with
PRSP.
* More effective medium
term safety net with better
targeted social assistance
program.
* Institutional capacity for
poverty monitoring and an
updated poverty profile for the
country
* Labor affected by reforms
benefit from pre and post
lay-off services and temporary
income support.
4. Privatization and Private  * Improvement in the
Sector Development:       business environment
Policy and regulation for  compared to the benchmarks
priatzatonand private   established by the FIAS study.
sector development improved. * A more transparent and
effective privatization process
* Preparation of Gas and
Water Distribution enterprises
for privatization.
- 24 -



<-                       |   ;rnd cators            S         e'c|ritiWaI Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs) .
1. Public Financial       $1010                     * Supervision reports     * Timely availability of
Management                                          * Project status reports  Counterpart Funds
* Disbursement reports;
Independent audit reports
*  Implement Procurement  $85                       (annual)
Law                       (IDA $75)*                                          * Law will be enacted
effectivly
Implement the Procurement
Law by helping the
Government in setting up the
required procedures and
institutional arrangements
*  Implement Chamber of   $926                                                * Amendments to the Law
Accounts                  (IDA $800)*                                         and Draft Charter will be
passed.
Advise the Chamber of
Accounts in the establishment
of appropriate professional
and institutional capacity
2. Public Expenditure     $7,118
Management
*  Prepare a PIP & Set up a  $344
PIAD                      (IDA $300)*
Prepare a Public Investment
Program and Set Up a Public
Investment Appraisal
Department
*  Modernize Treasury     $6,774
Operations                (IDA $2,850)*                                       * A medium term public
expenditure strategy
Strengthen the Treasury                                                       consistent with the PRSP will
operations by automating.                                                     be adopted and made public
Design, procure, install and
commission an IT system and
Train Treasury personnel.
* Good financial
management and procurement
practices
3. Social Expenditures    $2.297
Reform
$287th Expenditure* Cabinet approval of TOR
*  Health Expenditure                            2587
- 25 -



Analyses                  (IDA $250)*
* Develop medium term
program in the Health sector
to strengthen pro-poor
targeting of expenditures
consistent with PRSP
*  Education Finance and  $287                                               * Cabinet approval of TOR
Expenditure Analysis      (IDA $250)*
Develop medium term
program in the Education
sector to strengthen pro-poor
targeting of expenditures
consistent with PRSP
0   Implement Medium Term  $809                     * A medium term strategy
*  Implement Medium Term   *$09                                              for social assistance is
Social Assistance        (IDA $700)                                          prepared.
To refine and implement the
medium term strategy for
enhancing targeting of social
assistance.
* 2002 Budget allocation for
*  Update Povertv Profile                                                    Household Survey
To prepare a poverty profile  $455
based on revised State    (IDA $400)*
Statistical Agency (SSA)
surveys on household living
standards.
* Labor Redeplovment      $459
Implementation            (DA $400)*v
Assist the Government to~~~~~~~~~ Government adopts
Assist the Government to                                                     recommendations of the Labor
implement the Labor                                                          Redeployment Program
Redeployment Program                                                         under IBTA-I
adopted by the Government to
ameliorate the short term
negative impact of adjustment
on individual workers
4. Privatization and Private     $2.245
Sector Development
* Government adopts the
recommendations of the FIAS
*  Strexngthen Business                                                      suy
Environment and Corporate        $1,335
Governance                         $1170)
Implementation of the           (IDA $1,170)*
-26 -



recommendations of the FIAS
business environment study
and tofund the monitoring
process to track progress.
Also review Corporate
Governance issues as they
pertain to optionsfor
improving performance of the
enterprise sector
*  Support Privatization of      $455
Gas Distribution                (IDA $400)*
Technical and Legal                                                          * Timely appointment of
Consultantsfor Phase II of                                                   Consultants and Advisers
the Privatization Process
*  Support Privatization of       4                                            Timely appointment of
Water Distribution              (IDA $400)*                                  Consultants and Advisors
Technical and Legal
Consultantsfor Phase II of
the Privatization Process
5. Project Management
$682
(IDA $600)*
Total Project Cost
$13.350                                              * Timely procurement of
(IDA $9,450)**                                         equipment and hiring of
consultants
*/ IDA allocation only.
Amounts exclude
contingencies and govt.
share.
**/ Total includes
contingencies
-27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.01 million
Enhancing Accountability in Public Financial Management
Implement Procurement Law (US$85 thousand): Implement the Procurement Law by helping the
Government in setting up the required procedures and institutional arrangements.
From 1997, procuring entities in Azerbaijan have been conducting procurement on the basis of two
legislative documents: the Procurement Regulations of 1996 and the Law on Tendering of 1997. Since
1997, implementation of these legislative acts has been carried out by the State Procurement Agency whose
Charter dates from 1998. A revised Procurement Law satisfactory to IDA has now been enacted and made
effective and implementing mechanisms have been adopted. The legal and institutional framework for
governing public procurement has been finalized and an independent State Procurement Agency has been
created, staffed, and made operational. The Government has adopted a standard reporting format to
monitor the extent and quality of implementation and has established a baseline to assess progress in
implementation.
The objective of this technical assistance (TA) is to help implement the Public Procurement Law
by assisting and providing to the Government the means to carry out the tasks required by the Law to
inform, educate, advise, monitor, supervise and enforce the Law through appropriate and effective
institutional arrangements and thereby to guarantee the effective implementation of the Law.
Through the use of (i) a Procurement Consultant and (ii) a local IT consultant, the TA will assist
the Government to devise and implement the work plan for the proper and effective implementation of the
Public Procurement Law.
*  Through the use of the Procurement Consultant, the TA will provide intemational experience to
design and implement a management infonmation system for use by the Agency and design and bring
on line an information website for the Agency. The TA will also include, inter alia, a review with the
SPA of its current Charter and organizational structure with a view to improving and strengthening its
ability to perform its designated functions in an efficient and suitably objective manner; searching for
and recruiting additional appropriate technical, management and legal human resource skills needed to
staff the existing and enhanced procurement functions of the SPA; identifying and assisting in the
procurement of the required additional facilities in terms of computers, servers, LAN, printers, copiers,
etc; devising and developing a training strategy for staff and service providers; Conducting, in close
cooperation with the SPA, an initial series of workshops and public awareness seminars/workshops;
establishing, a comprehensive system for the assessment and monitoring of compliance with the PPL;
and carrying out a series of random procurement audits on at least two to three contract procedures at
each level of public authority covered by the PPL.
* Through the use of the international IT consultant, the TA will assist the Government to recruit
and manage the activities of the local IT Consultant, assist in the development of the
applications and website, design and implement a management information system for use by the
Agency and design and bring on line an information website for the Agency. The TA will help to ensure
- 28 -



that the system conforms to the needs of the Government. The TA will also maintain, support, and
provide in-house training to the SPA staff on the use and operation of the computer, the management
information system, and the website.
Implement Chamber of Accounts (US$926 thousand!: Advise the Chamber of Accounts in the
establishment of appropriate professional and institutional capacity.
The Parliament has approved the nomination of the head of the newly established Chamber of
Accounts; the Supreme Audit Institution and five auditors have recently been appointed. Amendments to
the Law and Charter of the Chamber of Accounts recently approved by the Parliament will enable the
Chamber to audit all government bodies, including all budgetary and extrabudgetary organizations and
funds. The Chamber has been obligated to make public reports of its findings. At least two ministries and
two state enterprises will be audited in 2002.
The objective of this technical assistance is to advise the Chamber of Accounts to maintain an
appropriate legislative framework and develop an appropriate professional and institutional capacity in
order that it may have a positive impact on the Azerbaijan public sector financial management.
*  The TA will assist the Chamber of Accounts to review, on an ongoing basis, the appropriateness
of, and compliance with, the legal framework relating to the Chamber of Accounts, and provide advice
on its intemal organizational structure and human resource arrangements.
* The TA will also provide the Chamber of Accounts with the necessary working tools and practices
including intemational Standards and Practices (INTOSAI), IT systems and office equipment, and
procedures for developing the necessary work program and budgets.
* The TA will also provide the Chamber of Accounts with training, including formal training by
consultants in accounting and auditing, and training provided by SAIs, INTOSAL, EUROSAL,
ACCA. The TA will also help the Govemment to arrange study tours and fellowships and support the
qualification of staff in professional accounting and auditing examinations such as those administered
by the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA).The TA will also provide on-the job
training to the staff of the Chamber of Accounts.
* The TA will provide advice on and help to develop and implement an information strategy for the
Chamber of Accounts, including the manner by which the Chamber of Accounts will communicate its
objectives and results to the public.
*  The TA will secure representation of the Chamber of Accounts in the appropriate intemational
forums, including INTOSAI and its regional associations, EUROSAI and ASOSAI. It will also help to
organize and advise on the participation of the Chamber of Accounts at appropriate intemational SAI
conferences, symposiums, seminars and working parties.
Project Component 2 - US$7.12 million
Improving, Public Expenditure Management Process
Prepare a PIP & Set up a PIAD (US$344 thousand): Prepare a Public Investment Program and
Set Up a Public Investment Appraisal Department.
A Medium-Term Public Expenditure Strategy (MTES) published by the Govemment, outlines the
priorities for consolidated public expenditures (i.e., including the Oil Fund) and the corresponding
expenditure allocation path for the next three years. The Strategy stipulates implementation and govemance
arrangements for those consolidated public expenditures, as well as key institutional and policy reforms
envisaged in the public expenditure area during this period. Within this strategic framework and on the
-29 -



basis of ongoing PRSP work, the Government will formulate consistent medium-term expenditure
programs for the social sectors and a three-year PIP by end-September 2002. The end result should be a
sustained growth path with public resources specifically targeted to empowering the poor.
The objective of this institution building technical assistance is to help the Government set up a
Public Investment Program and to build appraisal capacity for the investment program by setting up a
Public Investment Appraisal Division in the Ministry of Economic Development.
*  The TA will help the Government develop a Public Investment policy framework to reflect the
needs of the population and priorities of the Government consistent with the Government's PRSP.
Based on this policy framework, the TA will help the Government develop an investment strategy to
prioritize sectors and project classes including a negative list if warranted and set up the capital
budgeting criteria and procedures consistent with the strategy. Based on this strategy, the TA will help
the Government identify a series of projects and an implementation schedule spread over a number of
years.
* In addition to Government originated projects, the TA will help the Government develop a policy
and procedure for treating unsolicited projects and rules for inclusion of these in the PIP. Sufficient
flexibility would be built in to the project list and schedule, so that it can be reviewed in light of
developments in the country and elsewhere and modified as required.
* The TA will also help to set up the methodology and the operating policies and procedures (
including environmental assessments) for appraising and approving projects that are proposed for the
PIP.
* The TA will help the Government search, locate, and recruit the appropriate technical and
management human resource skills needed to staff the project appraisal function so that the PIAD can
be adequately staffed.
*  The TA will also help to educate and train the project appraisal staff so that they know the
procedures to be followed and have the capability to follow them.
*  The TA will also include the conducting of demonstrative project appraisals to illustrate and
educate by example, how the project appraisal process is to be implemented.
*  The TA will also assist in preparing a functional design of the appraisal process to identify
software/hardware needs and assist in its their procurement and installation.
Modeniize Treasury Operations (US$6.774 thousand): Strengthen the Treasury operations by
automating. Design, procure, install and commission an IT system and train Treasury personnel.
See Attachment 1 to this Annex for details.
Project Component 3 - USS 2.29 million
Reforming Social Expenditures
Health Expenditure Analyses (US$287 thousand): Develop a medium term program in the
Health sector to strengthen pro-poor targeting of expenditures consistent with PRSP.
In May 2001, IDA approved a credit of $5 million for a Health Reform Project. The focus of the
project is on the strengthening of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to design and carry out primary health care
(PHC) reforms through: (i) building up institutional capacity and training officials working on health
reform policies; and (ii) enhancing critical PHC services and assisting the most vulnerable in five targeted
districts, building on the ongoing and largely successful pilot program already being carried out by
UNICEF.    In addition to the district component of the project, there is also support for various
- 30 -



national-level activities. This includes a sub-component of the project on Health Financing Reform. This
sub-component would include training, survey work and technical assistance support in three main areas:
(i) financial planning of the health system (including an analysis of user fees and equity, an estimation of
the contents and costs of a basic health care package, and analysis of health care financing options); (ii) the
feasibility and possible development of health insurance; and (iii) an analysis of private health spending. It
would also include staff training.
This technical assistance under IBTA-Il will support a study to complement these initiatives. The
main objectives of the study are (i) to analyze the pattems and efficiency of resource utilization and the
sources of revenue in the health sector; (ii) to analyze the distributional impact of the health outcomes of
existing health expenditures or public health allocations; (iii) to review the budgeting process, resource
allocation mechanism and inter-govemmental budget transfer system; (iv) to recommend ways in which
health spending might be more effectively targeted; (v) to build up capacity in the Ministry of Health in the
analysis of data on health spending and health service utilization; and (vi) to develop a medium-term
program in the health sector for incorporation in the draft 2003 budget, to strengthen the effectiveness and
pro-poor targeting of expenditures consistent with PRSP priorities.
The study will also answer a number of policy questions as the Government further develops its
health sector strategy. These would include questions on (i) what level of resources is currently available to
the health sector, (ii) the extent to which actual expenditures in the health sector match the approved
budgets, (iii) what have been the trends in health budgets and spending in recent years, (iv) how the use of
these resources matches the Government's priorities and objectives as indicated in its policy documents,
including the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, (v) how effectively these resources are being used to
achieve the objectives of access and equity in the sector, (vi) what is the pattem of spending by geographic
region, level of govemment and type of health service provided, (vii) whether there are some critical health
service delivery inputs and items that are funded insufficiently, (viii) how the budgeting process affects the
efficiency of spending, and what process or organizational changes need to be made to improve efficiency,
(ix) to what extent the public resources are being used by, and benefit, poor people, (x) what changes
should be made in the Government's budget for Year 2003 for the health sector to improve the
effectiveness and equity of spending and (xi) what changes should be made in the investment plan for health
sector spending.
The consultants funded by this TA will attempt to answer these questions by conducting analyses of
health financing, health expenditures, equity effects of health spending, the Govermment's Health Priorities
and Public Spending.
The TA will also help to (i) ensure that staff in the Ministries of Health and Finance are trained in
expenditure analysis techniques; (ii) organize a group of seminars for a group of health finance and budget
experts from the MOH/MOF to train them to carry out an analysis of education expenditures; (iii) present
the results of the study at a health finance seminar organized jointly by the MOF and the MOH, and (iv)
prepare the health budget for Year 2003, aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public
spending in the sector.
Education Finance and Expenditure Analysis (US$287 thousand): Develop a medium term
program in the Education sector to strengthen pro-poor targeting of expenditures consistent with
PRSP.
- 31 -



The Govermment of Azerbaijan is in the process of reforming its education system with a particular
focus on primary (grades 14) and secondary education (grades 5-1 1). The Education Reform Project,
funded by a Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL) from the World Bank seeks to support the efforts of the
Government's Education Reform Program by improving the effectiveness of teaching and learning in
selected grades of general education through (i) supporting innovations in curricula design and content, and
the curriculum development process (where curriculum is defined as including syllabi, textbooks and
teachers guides); (ii) piloting new in-service teacher training programs (based on the new school curricula
and teaching methods) and delivery mechanisms; (iii) evaluating the impact of project interventions through
monitoring and evaluation in pilot teacher education institutions (TEIs) and pilot schools, in order to
provide lessons for broader sector reform. The Education LIL was approved in 1999, and it is expected to
be completed by June 2002. Based on the lessons leamed under the LIL, a follow-up education project will
be prepared in FY03. The technical assistance under IBTA-II will support a study to compliment these
initiatives.
As the Government further develops its education sector strategy, a number of policy questions will
need to be addressed. The proposed technical assistance (LBTA-II) will support a study which will cover
the entire education sector, primary through higher education, including non-formal education activities,
financed by the public budget. The study will focus on four major issues regarding the costs and financing
of education in Azerbaijan. It will analyze education finance, education expenditures, the equity effects of
education spending, and the Government's Education Priorities and Public Spending.
Specifically the study will (i) examine sources of revenue in the education sector by level and types
of education during the past decade; (ii) examine the effects of changes in education revenues on education
outcomes, including enrollments, attendance, and learning outcomes; (iii) examine the efficiency of
education expenditures, both internal and external efficiency; (iv) review the budgeting process, the
resource allocation mechanism, and inter-governmental budget transfers, and their effects on the efficiency
and equity of education expenditures; (v) build up capacity in the Ministry of Education in the analysis of
data on education spending and the impact of education spending; (vi) recommend ways in which education
spending might be more effectively targeted, education programs/services efficiently delivered and
restructured or added to/ reduced for pilot districts; (vii) develop a medium-term program in the education
sector for incorporation in the draft 2003 budget, to strengthen the effectiveness and pro-poor targeting of
expenditures consistent with PRSP priorities.
The TA will also help to build capacity in the Ministries of Education and Finance by (i) ensuring
that staff in the Ministries of Education and Finance are trained in expenditure analysis techniques; (ii)
organizing a group of seminars for a group of education finance experts from the MOE/MOF to train them
to carry out an analysis of education expenditure; (iii) presenting the results of the study at an education
finance seminar organized jointly by the MOF and the MOE; and (iv) assisting the Govenmment to prepare
the education budget for Year 2003, aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending
in the sector.
Implement Medium Term Social Assistance (US$809 thousand): To refine and implement the
medium term strategy for enhancing the targeting of social assistance and for implementing a
Medium Term Social Assistance Program.
A Presidential Decree was issued in March 2001 acknowledging targeting problems and requesting
a revision of social assistance benefits by end-2001 to improve targeting.
- 32 -



The World Bank has already supported the design and implementation of a new household budget
survey, which is now being carried out on a regular basis by the State Statistical Committee. New data
from the reformed household survey system of the State Statistical Committee (SSC) will permit regular
analysis of social protection targeting. This analysis will be complemented with information gathered by
social workers from the MOLSPP local offices in order to construct a more complete assessment of how to
strengthen targeting. This background analysis and revision of programs should serve as the basis for a
more comprehensive social assistance reform strategy that will take into account the complementarities of
different social protection programs.
The Government is preparing a study assessing the targeting efficiency of social protection
programs using data from the revised household survey system. In this respect "Concept of Social
Assistance Reform in the Republic of Azerbaijan - An Issues Paper" has been prepared. The paper covers a
medium-term strategy for enhancing the targeting of social assistance and alleviating the impact on the poor
of new public utility policies. It is important that this new source of information be fed into the policy
making process, and used to make informed decisions on the development of poverty alleviation strategies
and on the design of new social policy measures.
The next step would comprise the Govemment's approval of a medium-term strategy for enhancing
the targeting of social assistance programs consistent with a broader social protection framework and with
the reforms of the utilities sector. The technical assistance under IBTA-II will compliment and support this
effort.
The proposed technical assistance (IBTA-II) has three main objectives: (i) to further build up
capacity in the State Statistical Committee (SSC) to ensure the further institutionalization of the new
Household Budget Survey (HBS) and the delivery of regular high quality household budget survey data; (ii)
to build up capacity in the Ministry of Economic Development (MED) in the use of HBS data for poverty
monitoring and social policy analyses; and (iii) to produce, on the basis of the first annual data set from the
new HBS, results using standard poverty and inequality indicators, and an updated poverty profile for the
country.
There will be three consultants employed on this assignment.
*  One consultant will be employed to work closely with the HBS department of the SSC on checking
and improving the quality of HBS, and furthering its institutionalization. In particular the consultant
will ensure that changes connected with the improved and streamlined questionnaires introduced on
January 2002 have been thoroughly implemented.
* The second consultant will be a sample specialist, who will work with the HBS department of the
SSC, in checking implementation of the new survey sample and advising on updating the sample.
* The third consultant will have experience in the use of household budget surveys for poverty
analysis, and will have experience in using SPSS or similar programs for the manipulation of survey
data.
Update Poverty Profile (US$455 thousand!: To prepare a poverty profile based on revised State
Statistical Agency (SSA) surveys on household living standards.
The SSC has recently revised its methodology for conducting household living standard surveys to
improve estimates of household income and expenditures and other vital data to determine the well being of
the population. The survey is based on a probability sample, and is designed to provide data which are
- 33 -



representative nationally and which can also be used to study differences in regional living standards, and
among different strata of the population. Each gusster 2,000 households are interviewed, each quarter,
providing an annual sample of 8,000 households. The SSC has collected data for three-quarters of 2001,
and is working on improving the quality of the data produced through introducing further checks on data
entry and perfecting the structure of the survey questionnaires. The quarterly household survey process has
now been firmly institutionalized with appropriate funding from the annual state budget and staffing
including the hiring of 20 additional survey interviewers.
The World Bank has already supported the design and implementation of a new household budget
survey, which is now being carried out on a regular basis by the State Statistical Committee. It is important
that this new source of information be fed into the policymaking process, and used to make informed
decisions in the development of poverty alleviation strategies and in the design of new social policy
measures.
The technical assistance under IBTA-II compliments this effort and has as its three main
objectives: (i) the further building up of capacity in the State Statistical Committee (SSC) to ensure the
further institutionalization of the new Household Budget Survey (HBS) and the delivery of regular high
quality household budget survey data; (ii) the building up of capacity in the Ministry of Economic
Development (MED) in the use of HBS data for poverty monitoring and social policy analyses; and (iii) the
production, on the basis of the first annual data set from the new HBS, of results using standard poverty
and inequality indicators, and an updated poverty profile for the country.
There will be three consultants employed on this assignment.
*  One consultant will be employed to work closely with the HBS department of the SSC on checking
and improving quality of HBS, and furthering its institutionalization. In particular the consultant will
ensure that changes connected with the improved and streamlined questionnaires introduced on January
2002 have been thoroughly implemented.
*  The second consultant will be a sample specialist, who will work with the HBS department of the
SSC, in checking implementation of the new survey sample and advising on updating the sample.
* The third consultant will have experience in the use of household budget survey for poverty
analysis, and will have experience in using SPSS or similar programs for the manipulation of survey
data.
Labor Redeployment Implementation (US$459 thousand): Assist the Government to implement
the Labor Redeployment Program adopted by the Government to ameliorate the short term
negative impact of adjustment on individual workers
In Azerbaijan, public employment services (PES) and other agencies are not equipped to mitigate
the impact of group redundancies in addition to dealing with the unemployed in general. Additionally, PES
are normally mandated to assist workers registered as unemployed. International experience suggest that if
workers can be assisted while they are still attached to the workplace (during the period of notification),
they are less likely to join the ranks of the unemployed and the State can save on severance payments and
subsequent social welfare costs.
The Government is committed to undertake significant labor conversion and staff reductions
associated with enterprise privatization and restructuring. A list has been issued of 450 public enterprises
in the machinery, oil, chemical, and food sectors to be privatized during 2001-2003, which may lead to
- 34 -



significant layoffs and related social tensions. IBTA-I has provided support to the Government to develop a
strategic plan to address and mitigate the consequences for workers of mass redundancies. IBTA-II would
continue this support by helping the Government implement the strategic plan for labor redeployment
developed under IBTA-I.
The specific objectives of the assistance under IBTA-II are to help the Government and agencies
responsible for labor and privatization related issues to implement the Labor Redeployment Program
adopted by the Government, to assist with labor redeployment during economic reform and privatization
and to ameliorate the short term negative impact of adjustment on individual workers. In the light of
worldwide and regional experience in divesture of excess labor and social infrastructure during
privatization, and based on a strategy to respond to the social impact of restructuring and lay-offs, taking
into account available resources in firms and the budget, the TA to be provided will support the
Government in (i) defining labor and social infrastructure to be divested; (ii) providing pre-layoff
assistance to workers, (iii) providing post layoff temporary income support and labor redeployment
services, and (iv) undertaking social monitoring of affected workers and communities, particularly those
which are mono-enterprise communities.
The consultant funded by the TA will implement the recommended plan for instituting best practice
state social protection (SSP) in Azerbaijan. The implementation will follow the detailed list of steps
specified and the timetable for the implementation of the recommended steps The consultants will also
design the institutional arrangement for the implementation and the assist the relevant identified
Government organization(s) to launch the implementation of the SSP on the ground.
Project Component 4 - US$2.24 million
Promoting Privatization and Private Sector Development
Implement the Recommendations of the Business Environment Study ( US$1.335 thousand!
Implementation of the recommendations of the FIAS business environment study and to fund the
monitoring process to track progress and also review Corporate Governance issues as they
pertain to improving the performance of the enterprise sector.
The Government has taken measures recently that have resulted in a significant reduction of
obstacles for private sector development The licensing regime is being reviewed, and the legal basis for a
market economy has been introduced based on the new constitution and reforms in the legal system. The
introduction of modern criminal, civil and tax codes lightens the burden and injects objectivity into the tax
regime. A Presidential Decree was issued in late 2000 abolishing all internal inspection/control departments
in the ministries, except for the internal audit department in the Ministry of Finance.
The Government has also taken measures to address corporate governance issues, which often
greatly impede private investment, and especially foreign direct investment. In this regard, the Govemment
has already required international accounting standards (IAS) in the financial and oil sectors, and will
require all joint stock companies over a threshold level of turnover to produce accounts in line with LAS
from 2002, as well as set a timetable for requiring that an annual report including the accounts is made
publicly available.
Despite these measures, much remains to be done. The Government is seeking Bank Group support
for improving the investment climate was non-oil sectors. A diagnostic review of the investment climate has
been initiated in November 2001, with FIAS, to evaluate changes since a 1999 study (BEEPS). The
- 35 -



diagnostic study includes a review of the legal and institutional framework for investment, comparing it
with the situation in competitor countries, evaluating impedimnents and making concrete recommendations.
The diagnostic includes a business environment and costs survey of 100 foreign and domestic firms, to help
identifying major problem areas, provide a basis for a future administrative barriers study and serve as a
tool to measure progress (benchmark) in the future. Based on the results of this survey and supported by
SAC-II, the Government would agree on a set of policy actions to improve the business climate for both
foreign and domestic investment and business creation.
The assistance requested by the Government under IBTA-IH will help the Government to implement
the recommendations of the FIAS study on measures to be taken to improve the business environment. It
will also assist the Government to set up the institutional arrangements needed to monitor the progress of
previously identified benchmarks.
To complement the findings of this study the Government is also planning to conduct an investors'
conference funded by IFC. The objective is to create awareness of the country's business climate and get
feedback from investors to structure its investment environment and privatization program, to maximize the
inflow of foreign direct investment and for local job creation.
The IBTA-I1 will also assist the Government to further strengthen Corporate Governance
mechanisms within key enterprises as it pertains to improving enterprise accountability towards the
government as shareholder and also in preparation for attracting private financing and investment without
recourse to Government. This will include, as mentioned above, moving toward compliance with
International Accounting Standards, as well as other financial and operational controls to safeguard the
interest not only of the present shareholder, which is the Government, but also of future private, and in
particular, minority private, shareholders. If needed, this assistance will also help to put in measures to
prevent further impairment of shareholder interest on the balance sheets of these enterprises by reining in
losses and leakages, if any.
Support Privatization of Gas Distribution (US$455 thousand): Technical and Legal Consultants for the
Privatization Process
The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan has approved a strategy for the privatization of
natural gas distribution in Azerbaijan. The strategy calls for fast-track privatization of a gas distribution
utility enterprise with a service territory that includes, at a minimum, the metropolitan area of Baku.
Possible inclusion of a wider territory in this service territory is the subject of on-going natural gas sector
strategy work, which will also define a privatization strategy for any parts of gas distribution not included
in the initial transaction.
Technical assistance is being provided for the privatization transaction of the gas distribution
utility enterprise under both IBTA-I and IBTA-II. The main objective of this assistance is to assist the
Government of Azerbaijan with the preparation and implementation of a privatization plan for the gas
distribution utility, by first assisting in completing the financial and corporate restructuring of the gas
distribution utility and then in completing the privatization. Inputs to the process on overall strategic
objectives for the gas sector, and the policy and regulatory choices that will be made in order to pursue
those objectives, will come from the natural gas sector strategy exercise now under way.
The TA will support the retention of qualified consultants in finance, gas distribution utility
operations, and legal affairs. The selected consultants will advise the privatization unit of the Ministry of
- 36 -



Economic Development on matters regarding the implementation of privatization. The recruitment of these
consultants will proceed in tandem. However, there will be only one contract for the Financial Advisor and
gas distribution utility consultant with the gas distribution utility consultant being a subcontractor to the
financial adviser. The financial adviser will select, negotiate and conclude the sub contract with the gas
distribution utility Consultant.
The IBTA-I will finance the retainer fee for the financial consultant which will include in part the
fees of the technical consultant as well. The Legal Advisor will be retained under a separate contract to be
funded by IBTA-II. IBTA-II will also fund the balance of the fees of the Technical Advisor not covered by
the retainer fee. The Financial advisor will also receive a success fee for bringing investors to the deal and
this success fee would be linked to the size of the transaction defined by the consideration received by the
utility or the Government from the investor.
The structure of this assistance will in most part be output based, with the overall compensation of
the advisors linked to the amount of investment mobilized. The objectives of the advisors would be set to
obtain the highest possible investrnent commitment for the lowest possible tariff. IDA's involvement in the
preparation of the transaction to bring in the private sector would provide intemational best practice
experience, is expected to substantially reduce the risks of a non-transparent selection process, bring
adequate attention to social and environmental issues as well as equity in the provision of services, and
promote the implementation of reforms needed for the success of the transaction.
Support Privatization of Water Distribution (US$455 thousand): Technical and Legal
Consultants for the Privatization Process
Baku households face substantial costs responding to unreliable and low quality water supply,
lower income households in particular spend as much as 7 percent of their income on coping strategies.
Household surveys indicate 89 percent of the population does not drink directly from the water tap and
between 9 and 13 percent of households report illnesses due to the poor quality of water. The ability of the
water sector to provide services to the population is being jeopardized by rapid deterioration of physical
systems; large targeted investment needs; outdated technology; limited managerial and financial skills; and
an extremely difficult financial situation, compounded by recent earthquake damage to underground pipes.
ARWC is doing an admirable job in maintaining operation of the systems and has improved its institutional
and technical capacity through the implementation of the Greater Baku Water Supply Project, supported by
IDA. With substantial and sustained support ARWC could, over the long-term, be transformed into a
well-run utility. However, the urgency of the water supply and wastewater problems in Greater Baku
requires more decisive action, facilitated by the introduction of private operators.
As in the case of gas, IDA's involvement in the preparation of the transaction to bring in the
private sector would provide international best practice experience, is expected to substantially reduce the
risks of a non-transparent selection process, to bring adequate attention to social and environmental issues
as well as equity in the provision of services, and to promote the implementation of reforms needed for the
success of the transaction. EBRD and IFC have expressed interest in the transaction provided that the Bank
is involved in its design and the set-up of the regulatory framework and reforms needed for its viability.
IDA is looking into mobilizing grant funding for the preparatory studies and providing support in the
supervision of these studies to ensure their quality. Furthermore, IBTA-I, at the Government's request,
would fund the retainer fee for financial and technical advisers to the privatization transaction.
- 37 -



As in the case of gas utility privatization, here too the TA will support the retention of qualified
consultants in finance, water distribution utility operations, and legal affairs. The selected consultants will
advise the privatization unit of the Ministry of Economic Development on matters regarding the
implementation of privatization. The recruitment of these consultants will proceed in tandem. As in the
water privatization, there will be only one contract for the financial adviser and water distribution utility
consultant with the water distribution utility consultant being a subcontractor to the financial adviser. The
financial adviser will select, negotiate and conclude the sub-contract with the water distribution utility
Consultant.
As in the gas case, the IBTA-I will finance the retainer fee for the financial consultant which will
include in part the fees of the technical consultant as well. The legal adviser will be retained under a
separate contract to be funded by IBTA-II. IBTA-Il will also fund the balance of the fees of the technical
advisor (i.e., the water utility consultant), not covered by the retainer fee. The financial adviser will also
receive a success fee for bringing investors to the deal and this success fee would be linked to the size of the
transaction defined by the consideration received by the utility or the Government from the investor.
The structure of this assistance will also for the most part be output based, with the overall
compensation of the advisers linked to the amount of investment mobilized. The objectives of the advisors
would be set to obtain the highest possible investment commitment for the lowest possible tariff.
Project Component 5 - US$0.68 million
Project Management Unit's Operating Cost US$ 682 thousand
Attachment 1
Treasury System
1.     Objectives
1.     The overall objective of this project component is to follow up on the work already undertaken by
the Government in the establishment of the Treasury Department and associated systems and procedures in
line with the recommendations of the IME as incorporated in the Government's reform program.
Specifically the project would assist the Government to design and implement a fully functional, automated
Treasury System, that would serve as an effective instrument for budget execution and cash management.
II.    Detailed Project Description
A.     Policy Reforms and Framework
2.     The IMF has been extensively involved in  advising the Government in developing a policy
framework for the project. The Government has designed its reform program based on these
recommendations.
3.     Significant progress has already been made by the government in Treasury reforms. Thus all
government moneys are lodged in a Treasury Single Account at the Milli Bank (National Bank of



Azerbaijan or NBA). All spending unit Bank accounts (with Treasury approved exceptions) have been
closed and all Government expenditure and receipt transactions are routed through the Treasury offices.
Similarly, selected transactions of extra-budgetary funds are being channeled through Treasury. This has
facilitated:
(i) a reduction of idle balances and better cash management by putting all Government
resources under control of the Treasury;
(ii) better controls during budget execution. Treasury checks whether budgetary expenditures
are in accordance with the approved budget, within the specified spending limits and funds
allocations, prior to approving an expenditure transaction; and,
(iii) more comprehensive accounting and fiscal reporting, thereby contributing to better
financial management.
4.     However, considerable scope remains for further improvement of the Treasury systems and
procedures. Cash management needs to be strengthened, commitment control has to be more rigorously
implemented and there is a need for significant improvement in the capacity to generate meaningful and
timely reports. The implementation of a modem Treasury Information Management System (TIMS) would
assist the government in achieving these and other improvements.
5.     Key policy actions that are being pursued and will be continued during the course of project
implementation, are detailed below:
(i)    The development of a new hierarchical chart of accounts conforming with the GFS
methodology.
(ii)  Implementation of a transaction based Treasury Information Management System
(TIMS) embodying the new chart of accounts.
(iii)  Implementation of effective Public Expenditure Control Regulations to manage the
level and timing of expenditures and the extent of arrears, including: (a) Financial
Control (i.e. the approval and authorization stages of proposals to spend public
moneys before a commitment is entered into); (b) Accounting Control (i.e. including
the certification of claims for payment before a payment is made); and (c) Audit
Control (i.e. the ex post review of expenditure undertaken);
(iv)  Improvements in Cash Management and Budget Execution by: (a) monitoring the level
of balances held in any spending unit accounts at the Commercial Banks on a
daily/weekly basis; (b) establishing Treasury's authority over the level of all bank
accounts, including spending unit bank balances held with the Commercial Banks; (c)
institute effective forecasts of monthly and weekly expenditure requirements and
revenue collections.
(v)    Reduce reliance on physical movements of cash in the Budget Revenue Collection and
Execution processes by effecting general payments of Government through electronic
movements between bank account balances through the banking system rather than
cash movements.
B.     Key Characteristics of the Treasury Information Management System Design
6.     The overall design of the system will be based on the IMF recommendations for the GFMIS. The
Core functional processes and information flows associated with the system are shown schematically in
- 39 -



figure 1.
7.     The Treasurv Information Management System  would be the core Government Financial
Management Information System (GFMIS) and would be used by:
(i) the Central Treasury and the 85 Regional Treasury offices to perform comprehensive
accounting functions and to undertake budget implementation and generate reports for use
by respective offices;
(ii) the cash management department to forecast and monitor cash flows and determine cash
limits for budget organizations;
(iii) the central treasury to access data of all the treasury offices for quality assurance and
other purposes and to carry out consolidation and generate reports for macro fiscal
management purposes;
(iv) the budget department of the MOF to obtain reports for instance on the status of actual
expenditures; and
(v) the Chamber of Accounts to access financial transaction data for auditing purposes.
8.    In a fully automated accounting system, as it exists in most developed countries and several middle
income countries, the basic accounting processes are automated and data captured only once as an
accounting transaction progresses through the system. Such a system, introduced along with a modem
budget classification system and an appropriate chart of accounts, enables expenditures and revenues to be
recorded at a very detailed level and related to specific programs and projects. Data recorded at this level
can be directly used for program and project management. This data is also easily amenable to cross
classification in other ways as required for financial analyses. In the absence of an automated accounting
system data recording is not at as detailed a level and more important, cross classification of data to other
schema is very cumbersome and therefore seldom carried out. Further more the introduction of an
automated accounting system would ensure completeness of data capture (that is no transaction would be
processed outside the system) and rigorous application of all relevant financial controls to all transactions
processed by the system. The information contained in the system data bases would provide the MOF and
other core financial agencies a foundation for a comprehensive management information related to the
country's financial resources. The information contained in the data bases would be available to other core
government agencies on a as required / approved basis. In addition, the system would provide useful
financial information to the ministries, spending units ( in their respective areas) to enable them to better
manage their work programs.
9.     The system will encompass the functional requirements for the budget implementation and
accounting processes and would cover the appropriation, commitment, funds allocation, and payment
processes for both the investment and current budgets. Specifically the budget execution system would
have a capability to:
(i) Record initial budgets and inform spending ministries about their initial budget
appropriatons as approved by the legislature, keep a record of intial budgets, revised
budgets, and budget transfers, for a typical government ministry/ spending unit.
(ii) During the course of a year distribute appropriation and commitment authorization
information  to ministries/ spending units and to record commitments incurred by a
ministry against the approved limits and the appropriation.
(iii) Keep a record of the amounts of funds allocations against the appropriations and any
changes thereto.
(iv) Record expenditure against commitments / budget and funds allocations (e.g. due to
-40 -



purchase orders, or other payments). The system will have facilities to check availability of
appropriation, commitment and funds allocation prior to approving a payment.
(v) Print consolidated payment instructions for actioning by the banking system.
(vi) Record revenue and other receipts against appropriate account heads.
(vii)     If required, print checks against payment instructions and or make arrangements
for the electronic transfer of payment infornation to an extemal paying entity.( e.g. a
Bank).
(viii)Consolidate data from regional treasury offices, as necessary. The system will have good
report writing facilitates and enable easy retrieval and reporting on data in the system data
bases, in a variety of formats. The system would be able to produce the commonly
required accounting and management reports.
(ix) The system would have facilities to restrict access only to duly authorized staff.
Technical Architecture proposed for the Treasury System and Telecommunications Requirements
10.    The architecture proposed for the system by the Government under advice from the resident IMF
advisor envisages a centralized system nmning at the central Treasury office in Baku. The 85 regional
treasuries distributed through out the country would connect to this system in an online mode to process
transactions. Such an architecture has the advantage that it eliminates the need to synchronize system data
bases that would be necessary in a distributed system and would reduce system maintenance costs and
efforts since the application software would only be operating at the Central site. Remote sites would use
this software via an on-line connection, as required. However, the implementation of this a architecture
requires that regional treasury offices be able to communicate with the Central site in an online mode and
this in turn requires that the telecommunications infrastructure in the country be able to support a
connection of at least 56-64 kbs from these sites to the center.
11.    The IDA's team has been assured by the Minister of Communications that at present about 50% of
the 85 cites/ towns where these offices are located have a fiber optic connection with Baku. At present the
remaining cities have conventional copper based cable connections which would be upgraded to fiber optic
connections over the next 2-3 years. The mission was informed that there should be no problem in
providing a 56-64 kbs connection to the center form all cities over the time frame of the project. In response
to this, the mission alerted the authorities that even though a fiber optic connection may exist between a
city/ town and the center, they may need to make some additional investment to over come the so called
"Last Mile Problem" which would connect the actual treasury office site with the hub where the fiber
optic connection begins. The Ministry of Communications stated is ready to establish these additional
connections as may be required by the MOF provided the MOF would bear the costs of this additional
work. Furthermore, the IMF advisor has advised IDA team that 80 % of the budget transactions are
generated from Baku and 2-3 other cities where the communications infra structure is more advanced, even
at this stage.
12.    Based on the above, the communications infrastructure should not pose an insurmountable
problem for the implementation of the centralized architecture being proposed by the Government and the
IMF advisor for the Treasury system. However, this aspect would need to be actually tested from some
remote sites within Baku and selected Treasury offices where the system will first be implemented during
the testing and pilot phases of the project.
-41 -



Fligre 1: Azwbjan Tray lrformafon Management System (TIMB)
Coum FicUnd Procness ind hovnatlon Flow. - Trasuryls respondoblefor nuling paymes;
commercmia o;ks responsite for banking opernmons
ministryad                Flcal Aeparts
Finance   -     -   -- 
bWude        (budget)           , NC
T
@3lirSdi                                      rimud.. 'fenn d           s t  wd r  ;. Ima
n.                                                      _ __xtI
13.    To achieve project objectives and policy actions listed above, the proposed treasury project would
provide technical assistance, computer equipment, software and training to assist the authorities to design,
develop, test and implement processes, procedures and systems, related regulations and training programs
for budget execution and treasury operations. Specifically the project would implement a Treasury
Information Management System described above. This system will first be implemented at a set of pilot
sites and then replicated across the country.
(a)    Details of Technical Assistance
14.      The IMF is providing technical assistance to the Treasury in the development of a new budget
classification structure, a chart of accounts and the functional specifications for a fully functioning treasury
system through an expert resident in Azerbaijan. The IMF would continue to be responsible for advising
the MOF/ Treasury on the substantive aspects of the Budget Execution, Cash Management and Treasury
Operations. The IMF proposes to continue to advise the Government on the finictional aspects of Treasury
operations and to assist the Treasury in the design and installation of the full Treasury System. Specific
areas of technical assistance include:
(i) Review existing budget classifications and coding structures and develop and design a revised
-42 -



structure and chart of accounts conforming with the IMF- GFS classification methodologies
and suitable for both budget preparation and implementation.
(ii)  Assist in the development of the legal regulatory and operational framework and develop
detailed guidelines, procedures, regulations, forms and operating manuals for budget execution
processes required at all levels of Treasury operations to implement the Treasury System and
for payroll management.
(iii)  Assist in the development of methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements
and cash management.
(iv)  Develop the fiscal reporting system of Treasury and improve linkages between the Treasury
fiscal reports and MOF analysis.
16.    The project would supplement this technical assistance as described below:
Technical Aspects:
16.   In the Information systems area technical assistance would be provided to develop the technical
design of the TLS, configure and implement the systems first at a designated set of PILOT sites - the
center, and two regional treasury offices and after testing the system in this environment, replicate the new
system country wide. This would include:
(i) Developing the technology architecture for implementing TIMS and specifying the H/W, SIW
and communications design, systems software and application S/W environment (UNIX,
DBMS & Application development tools)
(ii) Specifying the hardware and software requirements and preparing bidding documents in
accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
(iii) Supervising implementation of TIMS, including;
-technical project coordination and systems integration;
-installation and testing of H/W and S/W;
- configuration/parameterization (as may be required) of application software for budget
execution and treasury operations.
-acquisition, installation and testing of SAW for the treasury system
-developing operational guidelines, security and disaster recovery procedures
-developing procedures and check list for replicating systems at subsequent sites
(iv) assist the authorities in developing training strategies and plan and training MOF staff as
necessary
Project Implementation
17.    Technical assistance would be also be provided to assist the Treasury to administer and manage
the project and assist with Bank procedures (Project Monitoring, Accounting, Disbursement).
(b)    Details of Computer Hardware and Software
18.    Details of computer hardware, software, related equipment to be provided under the project are
summarized below:
Hardware, Systems Software and Application Development Tools, DBMS's.
-43 -



Equipment (servers, work stations, networks, printers, UPS, site preparation), systems software
and application development tools for central facilities at the Treasury Headquarters, and District
treasury offices. Each office would receive an appropriately sized server, a LAN network, a
RDBMS and application development tools, laser and line printers and windows based work
stations and modem connections connecting with the over all treasury network. Details of
equipment to be procured would be determined by the Treasury and Project consultants.
Application Software
Application software for treasury systems at center, regional units, and spending units and
customization, as may be necessary. This includes cost of package software purchase and
configuration and customization as identified by project consultants.
Miscellaneous
Office Equipment and Training facilities for MOF/Treasury, as may be necessary.
(c)    Training
19.    Training is recognized to be a crucial element for project implementation. The training
requirements for the project can be divided into several areas:
(i) Senior level management training / orientation in the use of computer based financial
management information systems.
(ii) End User Training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up under the
project.
(iii) Technical training in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing and
implementing the information systems under the project. e.g. the chosen RDBMS, the
operating systems, application development and CASE tools, etc.
(iv) Training in the provision of end user support to staff who will use the systems.
20.    The project would provide financing for:
(i)    Training courses to be arranged at site or at local or foreign institutes. Staff to be
trained under the project would include those belonging to the Treasury, the MOF and
technical staff of the MOF/ Treasury who will be involved in the development,
implementation and maintenance of the systems.
(ii)   The project would also finance study assignments for government officials in the
budget execution and Treasury operations areas to enable them to benefit from the
experiences of other Governments in these areas. This would include financing of courses,
discussion trips on specific topics by experts from these governments or agencies to
Azerbaijan.
D.     Implementation Strategy
21         The Government's preferred strategy is to seek a one-stop solution where the successful vendor
would be chosen based on the suitability of the overall solution being offered. This is to ensure that there is
a clear understanding on the part of the bidders from the outset that the Government is primarily interested
-44 -



in a successful and efficient response to its business needs. The project is not to be seen as one for the
acquisition of disparate hardware, software and technical assistance but as the end product of a proper
integration of these elements.
22.        Informed by this overall strategy, the TIMS project would first look at feasible alternatives for
an appropriate technological platform and an off the shelf software package that could possibly meet the
Treasury requirements, after any unavoidable customization. This would be followed by acquiring the
Application Software for the Pilot sites. This software would be configured and tested on the computers
acquired for the interim system. After the Pilot system has been implemented and the TD has confirmed the
fit between the new system and treasury requirements, it would be replicated across the remaining sites.
Additional hardware required for the final replication would be procured after the Pilot exercise has been
successfully completed.
IV.    Critical Assumptions and Risks
23.    Critical assumptions and risks associated with project implementation are:
(i) Continued Government commitment to reform of public sector and to strengthening the
basic economic management institutions is a pre- requisite for successful project
implementation. Specifically, in the area of fiscal management, implementation of TIMS
would assist in improving the quality of fiscal management systems which in turn would
introduce and/or enhance transparency in the fiscal and resource allocation and
expeniditure processes. This would affect those who benefit from the current weaknesses.
These interests may act to delay the project actions and/or divert it from its objectives. In
addition, introduction of the new institutional structure of budget execution could require a
reorganization and re- alignment of the roles and responsibilities of related government
agencies, such as within the MOF, the NBA and the treasury and the relationships with the
line ministries. A key element is the introduction of systematic cash flow projections and
monitoring actual cash flows against those projected. This is essential for improved cash
management for the government as a whole. Inplementation of these aspects would need
government support at the highest levels, who do recognize the need for change, to ensure
that the change process is completed smoothly.
(ii) A critical success factor is the formation of a strong project team at the Treasury to work
closely with implementation service providers. The project team must be led by a suitable
project manager with powers to make decisions and must comprise staff with detailed
knowledge of relevant subject matter areas such as cash management, treasury procedures
including cash limits, commitments, verification and accounting. These staff should
ideally be engaged in project work on a full time or near full time basis so that critical
project deadlines are not missed.
(iii) The Government has indicated its commitment to Treasury Systems Reform and has set an
explicit timetable for the implementation of a full treasury system and work under this
project builds upon efforts already underway. These factors mitigate against some of the
risks involved. A phased and gradual introduction of new policies and procedures and a
broad training program in the use of the new systems and methodologies would allow a
wider appreciation of benefits and would enhance ownership.
(iv) The project would need to cope with
(a) the organizational capacities of the Treasury to manage project implementation;
- 45 -



(b) lack of adequate technical skills within the Government;
(c) the ability of govemment to retain staff who have been trained.
24.    To ameliorate these risk the project would provide fnancing for hiring of project implementation
specialists and other technical skills from the private sector as required. Government would need to review
salary scales of staff in key areas to retain them within the civil service. However, it is likely that an
ongoing policy of training would need to be adopted with significant attrition rates expected.
V.     Cost and Financing
25.   Indicative project costs are given below.
Table I
Item                               Assumptions               Estimated Costs
U.S. $ million
Hardware                    Servers, work stations, systems        2.5
software, printers and other
peripherals networking
equipment and software
(LAN/WAN) and installation
At central site and 85 regional
offices. ( 9 large sites, 55
medium sites and 21 small
sites)
Application Software
Software Licenses: 400 licenses         1.2
_@ $3000/- per license
Application Configuration/               1.0
parameterization
Technical Assistance       IT specialists ( software,             0.325
networking and hardware) 24
person months
Treasury Advisor- 18 person            0.300
months
Procurement specialist                 0.075
Training                   Technical and financial                0.100
management courses
Sub- Total                                                         5.5
Total including contingencies                                      6.77
26.    This calculation assumes that each of the 85 regional offices would connect to the Central
Treasury in Baku via an online telecommunications connection with a speed of ( 56-64kbs). The
Application software would operate only at the Center and the district offices would connect to the center to
use the software. If the telecommunications facilities in Azerbaijan do not allow this then a distributed
architecture would need to be implemented with the application software running at each district office.
- 46 -



This would require more sizable servers etc. to be set up at these offices and would have an impact on the
total investment cost.
Grant from USAID
27.      The USAID has agreed to finance some elements of the Treasury system. In particular the USAID
would finance the costs associated with the application software purchase and configuration ($2.5 million)
and also the costs associated with IT related consultancies (0.325 million) and training ($0.100 million) for
a total of about $2.9 million. If for any reason this financing would not be available, IDA would assist the
Govememnt in finding financing from other sources.
VI.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
28.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements are described below:
(a) Implementation Period: FY2002- 2006
(b) Executing Agencies: The Treasury would administer funds under the Project
(c) Project Coordination: A working group will be set up by the Treasury with representatives
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) , National Bank of Azerbaijan (NBA), and other related
agencies to deal with Day to day operational issues.
(d) Accounting, Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation and Auditing: (i) A Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) in the Treasury would be responsible for activities related to project monitoring,
administration, accounting, disbursement, procurement and periodic reporting to the Bank; (ii)
Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank ( March 1982); (iii)
World Bank supervision missions.
Table I: Performance Monitoring Indicators
Objstes            Eemre mooth asd thmely execukon of the budgt, wble muismgngths cost of0oemmeafinencing thrugh the stacblimerd of im,poved
Trauiy operatons and ce meiageit proces ps iocedireea erd em.
ltput Iikabu       .rsess lkidcatse                    Ou at Ixds                          l  ant lnd.ts
ConamtySermces   Egvegeit cfCon2tertxs              Full f,oetLooel deseg of systme, proc¢eus nd  Revised budetary cleuficebo syclom
fises edby1tho ps3eCt                                  proscedwo fos TreesyOpcsctwee completed  effctkwi for ail Oonm cexpondburec
in v   euiouapecte of  Deagm atA developmnt of afdl fineouenil  andsmplemented,            nd severse,
Troeasuy0peraticsn eA  trenrzy systm inmrporstngthe ftncbormlity
CadeMenhremeoi,    recommended byths MP,               Detaled regtdehowr and operahng meals  Eludgetfot FY 03 prepaesd accoedangto
ldfoemahonSydems                                       completed ead mUse,                 the vew claeaiceacon system;
D.aS" eed          Devel.qaa  rs dieue"r . Affen .  W  c.u
Developmect        men;pment;                          Techmcal desgimofTresuzyLsdger Sysems  Fenchond endEconsomc anaysesof
completed esA uiplemented,          budget avaslae from the new sysem,
Development of e planfoe uppaiinS the
Haodware. Systeme * ofumteciepplty for the TreayJMOF for Adequae numbers af dAtrmrad msthe wse of  New menapimetproceeres foz budgt
S cnare eand       leses a gemendt cthe above sytems  the raw I treany and F ayroL Systems,  e cueim ( O sh elloctoo. commtmentl
ApplcetionSoftware                                                                        paymesi processing and receipts) m place
rsqLwed foe the    Developmest of a traig sugyele and plan for  HJW, S/W deteee4 mtlled ndlted,  snd fiuosng.
Treausy Operation  Os implementauim of the rve eedTreessry  Applecalen SIW tbded foe dhe fdlowng
Sysbm at RegporA and  Opentemo System                  muieumfemctmoridtyfor tLhe Treury Leder  Improved aperAhurs managemet
Dtsrict Treasuy Unts                                   Sytem meang and procesang ca       infomaien andemproved contol, of
and Cente.         Acqumt so, Dehver imaaion and teStng of  allocahoo, commitment, payment and recespte  expenditues dirougentO ove nee,
HIW andSIW,                         teneaciom andprodtuieog core finanel repost
reqwred bythe MOF /Tre amzy         Improved CahManagem er for the
GoverweA es oa wbhol,
Ablity to produce fiscel accoursl data
I conastent wnth itemnatool standards
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
A. Enhancing Accountability in Public Fin. Mgmt         0.19        0.70       0.89
B. Improving Public Expenditure Mgmt. Process           0.61        5.95       6.56
C. Reforming Social Expenditures                        0.88        1.16       2.04
D. Promoting Privatization & Private Sector Development  0.63       1.37       2.01
E. Project Management                                   0.59        0.02       0.61
Total Baseline Cost         2.91        9.21       12.11
Physical Contingencies      0.16        0.49        0.65
Price Contingencies         0.16        0.43        0.59
Total Contingencies          0.32       0.92        1.24
Total Project Cost                                    3.22       10.13      13.35
Total Financing Required                              3.22       10.13      13.35
r~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~    ~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;  e --  ig '  ',  I - 
1. Goods                                                0.10       3.61        3.71
2. Technical Assistance                                 2.22       5.57        7.79
3. Recurrent Operational Costs                          0.59       0.02        0.61
Total Baseline Cost        2.91        9.20       12.11
Physical Contingencies       0.16       0.49        0.65
Price Contingencies          0.16       0.43        0.59
Total Contingencies          0.32       0.92        1.24
Total Financing Required                              3.22       10.13       13.35
Costs may not add up due to rounding
-48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Not Applicable.
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Total Project Costs By Year ($million)
Implementation Period
2002    2003      2004      2005      2006     Total
A. Enhancing Accountability in Public Fin. Mgmt  0.15  0.25    0.25      0.21      0.16      1.01
B. Improving Public Expenditure Mgmt. Process  1.06   1.74     1.76      1.44      1.12      7.12
C. Reforning Social Expenditures             0.33     0.56     0.57      0.47      0.36      2.30
D. Promoting Privatization & Private Sector Dev.  0.33  0.55   0.56      0.46      0.35      2.24
E. Project Management (Recurring Op.Costs)   0.10     0.17     0.17      0.14      0.11     0.68
Total               1.96    3.28     3.32       2.71     2.09     13.35
15%     25%       25%       20%       15%
Sources Of Financing
IDA                 137     232      2.36       1.93      1.47     9.45
Cumulative          1.37     3.69     6.05      7.98      9.45
Government          0.10    0.20      0.20      0.30      0.20      1.00
Cumulative          0.10     0.30     0.50      0.80      1.00
USAID               0.49    0.76      0.76      0.48      0.42      2.90
Cumulative          0.49     1.25     2.01      2.49      2.90
Total Project Cost  1.96    3.28      3.32      2.71      2.09     13.35
Cumulative          15%     25%       25%       20%       15%      100%
Numbers may not add due to rounding
- 50 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedure
Tables A summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements. Under the project, goods and
services. will be procured in accordance with the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. Thresholds for
procurement method and prior reviews shown in Table B. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estimated schedules of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C. Estimated dates for
publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Table D. The allocation of the credit
proceeds is shown in Table E. Capacity assessments of the Project Implementation Unit to execute project
procurement are made in Tables F.
Procurement Capacity:
The Project Implementation Unit is assisted by an expatriate individual procurement expert, hired
under the PPF to assist the PIU with procurement issues. He is expected to carry out all procurement
activities timely. The Bank will also provide training to PIU staff involved in the implementation of the
project.
Procurement of Goods. Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995, and revised
in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999. The appropriate Standard Bidding
Documents issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
The project will finance procurement of goods: (i) office equipment; computer hardware and
software, printers, copiers, scanners and fax machines. The following methods of procurement will be
used:
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be applied for goods contracts
estimated to cost above US$100,000.
* International Shopping (IS). Contracts for supplies readily available off-the-shelf or equipment of
standard specification estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate not to exceed
US$240,000 may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations from at
least three suppliers in two different countries.
* National Shopping (NS). Contracts for supplies, for example office equipment, readily available
off-the-shelf or required equipment and parts of standard specification estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 up to an aggregate not to exceed US$100,000 may be procured under NS procedures by
obtaining competitive price quotations in sealed envelopes from at least three suppliers.
Procurement of Services. The contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The
services financed under the credit are for strengthening the country's institutional capacity to improve the
business environment, revenue mobilization and the financial conditions for energy utility companies and to
initiate their restructuring and privatization. Selection of Consultants will be based on the Standard Request
-51 -



for Proposal issued by the Bank with minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank.
* Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) will be used for selection of firms and institutions
except for project auditing which will be selected according to Least Cost (LC) procedures, and for
training/seminars the consulting firms will be selected through Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
*  Selection of Individuals. Since the majority of consulting contracts are to support preparation of
the regulatory framework for improving the business environment, revenue mobilization and financial
conditions of utility companies and other technical assistance, and for these assignments, individual
consultants like academicians, professors from the universities and other experts in the specific fields
are available around the globe, individual consultants will be selected on the basis of their
qualifications by comparing at least three CVs from potential candidates.
*  Selection through Consultants Qualifications:
Incremental Operating Cost:
The credit will finance the incremental operating costs of about US$ 795,000 of the PIU needed to
oversee and manage the project, including: (a) PIU staff salaries; and (b) communications, maintenance,
transportation, rent and operation cost for equipment procured or used under the project. Incremental costs
will be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget.
IDA Review of Procurement Decisions
Goods: All goods procured through ICB and the first two contracts under International Shopping
and National Shopping, will be subject to IDA prior review as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.
Consultants: All contracts for firms over US$100,000 and for individuals over US$25,000 TORs
irrespective of the estimate of the contract will be subject to IDA prior review.
B. Disbursement
The project will finance Goods at the rate of 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory) and 85 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally.
Procurement of services will be financed at the rate of 75% of local individuals, 95% of local firms and
85% of foreign individuals and firms . The project will also finance 75% of the total operating cost. The
project will be implemented over a four years period and will close on December 31, 2006.
Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for
(i) expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 for equipment and less than US$50,000 for
consultant services provided by firms; (ii) expenditures under contracts of less than US$25,000 for
individual consultants; and (iii) the incremental operating costs less than US$15,000. These may all be
claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Documentation supporting these
expenditures will be held by the PIJ for at least one year after receipt of the audit report by IDA for the
year in which the last disbursement occurred and made available for review by the auditors and to IDA on
request.
Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government
would open a Special Account (SA) in a reputable bank and will be operated by Project Implementation
- 52 -



Unit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an
Authorized Allocation of US$500,000. Initially the allocation would be limited to US$200,000 until
disbursements had reached $4 million, after which time the full Authorized Allocation would be claimed.
Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent
of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation, bank statement of the special account, and a reconciliation bank
statement of the Special Account against bank records. The SA would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 53 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement    Methodl
ICB           NCB          Other2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
Expenditure
Category
1. Goods
Computer Equipment       3.80                                                 3.80
including Hardware and  (3.60)                                               (3.60)
Software
Office Equipment                                     0.30                     0.30
(0.28)                   (0.28)
2. Services
Improving Business                                   4.68                     4.68
Environment, Revenue                                (4.13)                   (4.13)
Mobilization and
supporting reform in the
energy sector, etc.
3. Incremental                                       0.79                     0.79
Operating                                            (0.56)                  (0.56)
Cost
4. PPF                                               0.88                     0.88
(0.88)                  (0.88)
Total                    3.80                        6.65                     10.45
(3.60)                      (5.85)                   (9.45)
1/      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA. All costs
include contingencies.
2/      Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the PIU, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the Project.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                      Selection  Method
Expenditure
Category      QCBS      QBS       SFB  LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Costl
A. Firms          5.00                     0.09      0.25                        5.34
(4.50)                   (0.08)   (0.24)                       (4.82)
B. Individuals                                                 0.92              0.92
(0.78)            (0.78)
Total    5.00                     0.09     0.25      0.92              6.26
(4.50)                   (0.08)   (0.24)    (0.78)             (5.6)
1\ Including contingencies
Note:   QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 55 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Method              Prior Review
Expenditure       (US$ thousands)                               (US$ millions)
Category
Over 100                ICB                    3.83
1. Goods             Less than 50              NS                    0.05
Less then 100              IS                    0.12
2. Services           (Indiv.) 25             Other                  0.68
(Firm) 100         QCBS/CQ/LCS/SS              5.11
4. Total                                                             9.79
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   9.79
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
- 57 -



Azerbaijan
IBTA II
Procurement Plan
Description     Type   Number oJ Estimated  Procurement Documents Invitation to Bid  Evaluation Contract  Contract
slices/item cost  Inc method   submitted to bid     Opening          signing  completion
s/       contingency.          Bank
sub-packa (in
ges      USS '000)
Component:
Enhancing
Accountability in
Public Financial
Management
1. I TA for       CS       1        60         IC      July, 02   July, 02  July, 02  Aug, 02  Aug, 02  May, 03
Implementation of
Public
Procurement Law
1.2               CS       5        30         IC       Oct, 02   Oct, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 04
Training/seminars
(ext., local and
internal)
2.1 Implementing  CS       1        445       QCBS      Aug, 02   Sept, 02  Sept, 02  Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 03
Chamber of
Accounts
2.2 Training/     CS       3        150        CQ       Oct. 02   Nov, 02   Nov, 02  Nov, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 03
Seminars                          _
2.3 S/W            G       2        435        ICB      Dec, 02    Jan, 03  March, April, 03  May, 03  Dec, 03
development and                                                               03
H/W procurement
2.4 H/W            G       1         60         is     April, 03  May, 03   May, 03  June, 03  June, 03  Sep, 03
rocurement                     I _
3.1 TA for        CS        1       410       QCBS      July, 02   Aug, 02  Aug, 02  Sep, 02  Oct, 02 March, 03
Modernization of
Treasury
Operation
3.2 Proc. of       G        1       2840       ICB      Feb, 03   March, 03 April, 03 May, 03  June, 03  Dec, 03
Hardware                         _
3.3 Training      CS       I        100        CQ      April, 03  April, 03  April, 03 May, 03  May, 03  Dec, 03
3.4 Proc. of       G       1         30        NS       Feb, 03    Feb,03   Feb,03 March, 03 April, 03  Dec, 03
hardware
Component:
Reforming Social
Expenditure
4.1 Health        CS        1       200       QCBS      Aug, 02    Sep, 02  Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Dec, 03
xpenditure
Analysis
4.2 H/W and S/W    G       1         60         IS     April, 03  April, 03  May, 03  May, 03  June, 03  Sep, 03
4.3 Oracle DBMS    G                 25        NS      April, 03  April, 03  May, 03  May, 03  June, 03  Sep, 03
pgrade                I_I_I                          I_I                                    I        I
5.1 Education      CS       I       235       QCBS      July, 02   July, 02  Aug, 02  Aug, 02  Sep,02  Aug, 04
- 58 -



inance &
xpendlture
nalysis__                                                           _ _ _ __                              _ _ _
2 Procurement of  G        1        60         IS       Sep, 02   Sep, 02   Nov, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Feb, 03
omputer and
isociated
quipment
1 TA for         CS        1       500       QCBS      April, 02  April-02  June-02  June-02  July-02  Aug-04
-finement and
nplement of
edium term
rategy for
iancing of social
;sistance                      I
2 TA for          cs       1        80         IC      Aug, 02    Aug, 02   Sep, 02  Sep, 02  Oct, 02  June, 03
Lhancing of social
sistance
3 Procurement of  G        1       235        ICB      Nov, 02    Dec, 02   Jan, 03  Feb, 03  March, 03 May, 03
:mputer and
sociated
Iuipment                                  .
1 Implementing   CS        1       350       QCBS      Sep, 02    Oct, 02   Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Jan, 03  Aug, 04
e Labor
edeployment
rogra in_                         _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
2 Computer and    G       1         120       ICB      Nov, 02    Nov, 02   Dec, 02  Jan, 03  Feb, 03  May, 03
Iuipment for
Lbor
-deployment
I Updating       CS       1        470       QCBS      Sep, 02    Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02   Jan, 03  Aug, 04
werty Profile
'omponent:
rnproving Public
,xpenditure
lanagement
rocess                                                                   _
.I TA for setting  CS     1        290       QCBS      Aug, 02    Aug, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Dec, 04
p PIP                          I_                                       _
.2 Procurement    G       1         60         IS      Sep, 02    Sep, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Apr, 03
f Computer and
.ssociated
quipment
omponent:
upporting
nterprise
.estructuring
).1 TA for       CS       3        1180      QCBS      Aug, 02    Aug, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Dec, 04
uild Business
nvironment
).2 Procurement  G        1        200        ICB      Apr, 03    Apr, 03  May, 03 June, 03  July, 03  Oct, 03
F Computer and
sociated
- 59 -



Equipment
Business
Environment
Component:
Promoting
Privatization
11. I Support     CS       1        470       QCBS     Aug, 02    Aug, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Dec, 04
Privatization of
Gas Distribution
11.2 Support      CS       1        470       QCBS     Aug, 02    Aug, 02   Oct, 02  Nov, 02  Dec, 02  Dec, 04
Privatization of
Water
Distribution                                                   .
Component:
Audit
12.1 TA for       CS       3        90         LC     Apr-03/04/   May       May      June     June   Aug-03/0
Project Audit .                                           05      03/04/05  03/04/05 03/04/05  03/04/05   4
Component:
Operating Cost
13.1 Extemal      CS       2        300        IC      June, 02   June, 02  June, 02  July, 02  July, 02  Aug, 04
Expefise *
13.2 Local        CS       4        450        IC      June, 02   June, 02  June, 02  July, 02  July, 02  Aug, 04
Expertise/Trainin
13.3 Office       G        3        45         NS      June, 02   June, 02  June, 02  July, 02  Aug, 02  Aug, 04
equipment and
vehicle
TOTAL                              10450                                                    l        l
G= Goods; CS= Consultant Services; ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; QCBS = Quality and Cost
Based; I = Individual consultants; LC = Least Cost Selection ; NS = National Shopping; IS =
International Shopping
* - under operating costs a Senior Procurement and Financial Management Consultant hired through PPF
-60 -



Annex 6, Table D
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element               IC3             NCB           is            NS           Consultants     Other
methods
1.     Procuremrent    US$100,000     NIA           Belcw         Below        Firms  over
method thresholds      and above                    US$1 00, 000  $50,000      USS
100,000
Individuals
over
US$25,000
2. Pnor Review         AU             All           First two     Firs two     All
I__ _ _ __ _ _ __   I__  Conract  contracts
3. Ex-post Review      None All contracts are subject to pnor review due to the s;eaalized nature of the goods
and services.
Section 2. Capacity of th Implementing Agencyin Procurenentand Technical Assitance Requiremmts
4. Brief statement     A expatriate procurement spediahst is hired in the PI thrcugh PPF  The positioa wil
continue for frst one ane half year of the implementation of project The procurnment
specialist will prepare all rqussite procurement documents and train government officals in
the Bank procirement methods Prior to his leaving he wi.l assist PRl to select a local
procurement specialist who will work with PIU tlll completion of the proie:t
5. Country Procurement Assessment RDport or Ocuntry    6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement
ProcurementStrategy Paper status Underpreparatior:     actions of the first year ready by r.egotiations? Yes
The preparation of bid documents and Request for
Proposals and Biddmg Documents for at least two
assignments will be ready for the Bank review by the
date of negotiatLons of the project. The procurement
consultant will assist in the preparation of RFP and
bidding documents followving Bank Guidelines
Section 3. Traininu Informaton and Devel. Jment or Procuremetat
7. Esimated date of    8. Estimated    9. Indicate if  :0. Domestic Preferenc,    11.         DoMnestic
Project    Launch      date     of    contracts are    for Goods                  Pref&eence for Works
Workshop               publication    subject   to                                if applicable
of  General     mandatory        Y es                      NWA
07/3t102               Procurement    SPN        in
Notice          Development
04;1 6/02       Business
Yes.
12. Retroactive financmg.          No.                 :3 Advancedprmcurement      No
14. Blain rtfty tie Procurement Mftorlg Svtem ad bbnnatUon yslem: Information on procurement woild be
collected and recorded to pro-ide (4) prompt reporting of contract awards by the Borxuwz; (ii) full quarterly reports to
IDA, and (Iti) changes in procurement scaedule4 inluding advertising bidding contra* awards and completion dates
All contract documentation will be keptby the PIU and made avalable to IDA for exc.postreview. All receipts anc other
supporting docu.ents for Statement of Expenses (SOEs) will be maintained or. file in the PIU and made available b IDA
f,r review during sup ervisionmissions.
Section 4. Proctirment Staffing
15. brcate name of Prxu-rent Staffa part of tih Project Team mvsponsitlefor theprocurement In tie projec.
Name- Gurcharaa Sinmgh Procurement Speaalist     Extensioa 80890
16 A$latn befty the expectd rle of tin e'  Offlce in Procurement: Liaison woin.
- 61 -



Annex 6, Table E
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Disbursement of the credit proceeds will be administered by the Cabinet of Ministers. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed over three and a half years. IDA would finance: Goods at the rate of 100
percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 85 percent of
expenditures for other items procured locally. Procurement of services will be financed at the rate of 75%
of local individuals, 95% of local firms and 85% of foreign individuals and firmns. The project will also
finance 75% of the total operating cost. The project will close on December 31, 2006.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Goods                                          3.88               100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 85% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Technical Assistance                           4.13                 75% of local individuals;
(Consultants services, training, study tours,                         95% for local firms;
and workshop expenses)                                             95% for foreign individuals
& firms
Incremental Operating Costs                    0.56                         70%
PPF                                            0.88
Total                          9.45
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) as follows:
(a) Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(b) Individual consultants: contracts less than US$25,000 equivalent;
(c) Consulting firms: contracts estimated less than US$50,000 equivalent; and
(d) Training and study tours: expenses less than US$20,000 equivalent.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the PIU or the Department of Economy and
Financial Credit Policy in the Cabinet of Ministers, and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions and auditors.
- 62 -



Azerbaijan
Proposed IBTA 2 Credit
Report on the
Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementation Agency to Conduct Procurement
Basis of Report:
1. This report is based on the discussions held between the Procurement mission which visited Baku in
January, 2002 and the staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of IBTA 1 and 2 that will implement
the proposed IBTA 2 credit subject in accordance with the letter of Prime Minister.
2. Attachment 1 to this report refers to the public procurement environment in Azerbaijan. Attachment 2
is a summary of findings and actions concerning the public procurement system in Azerbaijan.
Scope of the Review:
3. The capacity review includes the assessment of the capacity of the implementing agencies to carry out
the different phases of the procurement cycle. It addresses the legal aspect; procurement cycle management;
organizations and functions; support and control systems; record keeping; staffing; general procurement
environment; and general risk assessment. Thresholds for prior review and an action plan to build the PIU's
capacity are recommended.
Project Procurement Activities:
4.   The project would finance the procurement of goods and services for the above components the
majority of the consulting assignment and good will be procured through Quality Cost Base Selection
(QCBS) and Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB). Other procurement may be carried out through the
following:
Individual Consultants (IC); Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ); and Least Cost Method
(LC)
National Shopping (NS)
Intemational Shopping (IS)
5.   Organization of Implementation. The Economic Department of the Cabinet of Ministers will have
overall responsibility for project implementation. They will be assisted by the PIU. The PIU's capacity will
be strengthened further in order to carry out implementation of the proposed IBTA 2 credit.
6. Assessment of PIU's Capacity to Conduct Procurement.
(a)   Legal aspects . In order to implement the IBTA I credit in an efficiently and timely manner and
ensure monitoring, the PIUJ was established on October 15, 1996 under the auspice of Cabinet of
Ministers.
(b)   Procurement Organization and Cycle. A Sr. Procurement Consultant has been appointed for
- 63 -



implementation of IBTA 2. The procurement consultant will work with the PIU Ex. Director. The PIU
Ex. Director also has received a reasonably good procurement experience by managing and
successfully implementing IBTA 1. He had also obtained about 4 weeks Procurement training from
International Labor Organization in Turin.
(c ) Support and Control Aspects . The PIU has access to the government legal advisors, technical
and financial departments as well as all ministries including the State Procurement Agency. The PIU is
subject to audit by independent auditors.
7.     Risk Analysis. Azerbaijan has a Procurement Law which is based on principles of economy,
efficiency and transparency. It is now amended to fit in line with World Bank procedures, and it become
effective on January 31, 2002. It has an independent public procurement agency which is active in ensuring
effective implementation of the public procurement law. Nevertheless, this is a "high risk" country from the
procurement point of view.
8.    General Procurement Environment. Professionals which are involved in procurement are well
respected. The salaries were established in accordance to the Bank's recommended rates and agreed
between Consultants and the Government. The Procurement process is carried out in accordance with the
Bank's procedure.
General Risk Assessment:
9. The recommendation is to rate the agency at the level of average risk. The reasons are summarized as
follows: (i) practice of the public procurement law is recently enacted on January 31, 2002; (ii) the PIU had
obtained good experience in implementation of the World Bank procurement. However, it is difficult to
draw any meaningful conclusion on the present capacity to run national competitive bidding in accordance
with the law; (iii) the highly bureaucratic system creates opportunities for corruption; and (iv) while there
are anti-corruption provisions in the Criminal Code and State Procurement Law, the general perception is
that there are no decisive actions to combat corruption.
10.   Action Plan to Strengthen the Agency Capacity. Based on the analysis compiled in the
Attachment 1, the following action plan is recommended:
a. The complete procurement under IBTA 2 will be centralized in the PIU. The PIU will work in
close coordination with other beneficiaries of World Bank SAC 2 and IBTA 2 Credit and Cabinet
of Ministers.
b. One intemational procurement specialist (PS) is assigned to assist the PIU in implementing
procurement activities for the project. The PS has experience with World Bank procurement
procedures and practices. The PS was hired for a 18 months period.
c. The staff involved in procurement would be further trained during the projects preparation time.
Bank will also encourage the PIU staff to attend formal training and Bank organized seminars.
d. PIU) would define the composition of the tendering committees that will be responsible for every
step of the bidding/contracting process (preparation of the biding documents/request for proposals,
advertising, invitation to bid, pre bid conference, evaluation, contracting, contract administration),
flow of documents and signatory powers.
- 64 -



e. The Bank's standard request for proposal, bidding documents and standard evaluation report will
be used.
f. The Bank will organize a project-launch workshop after the Board approval to provide additional
procurement knowledge about Bank procurement procedures tailored to the specific needs of the
credit.
g. Independent auditors for the project would conduct annually both a financial and procurement
audit.
h. A procurement book containing the Bank's standard procurement documents will be provided to the
PIU just after project Board presentation.
i. For each year of the project implementation two supervision missions will be carried out, with a
PAS.
Suggested Threshold for Prior Review:
11.      Proposed prior review thresholds are on the conservative side reflecting the average risk rating.
Based on the thresholds below, all procurement actions would be cleared by the Bank.
Prior review threshold requirements are for consulting firns, and contracts for individual
consultants, over $50,000 and $20,000, respectively. Irrespective of threshold, the TORs and short lists for
all consulting contracts should be approved by the Bank. It is recommended that the following thresholds be
applied under the proposed IBTA2:
ICB: Goods     ->  s 100, 000
IS             -   $100,000
NS             -    $ 50,000
First two International and National Shopping contracts shall be subject to World Bank prior review.
- 65 -



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                  Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ 100.000 (equivalent)                                            High X
Works US$ ) n/a                                                           Average
Consulting US$ 100,000 (equivalent) for firms and $25,000                  Low
for individuals
Post Review Ratio: two in 5 contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  Form prepared by: Gurcharan Singh PAS
One   every  6  months  (includes  special procurement   assigned to the project)
supervision for post-review/audits). The supervision mission
should include a procurement specialist during the first two
years of the work. (However, this is only a recommendation
and the budget for supervision is not within the control of the
procurement specialist.)
Signagp:<
Date:           Feb 28,1002
Comments:
This is an assessment of the established PIU that is carrying
out IBTA 1 credit. The result of the analysis is, however, that
the country is assessed as high risk from the public
procurement point of view. However in view of the fact that
the PIU hired an experienced senior procurement expert who
is familiar with Bank procurement as well, and the deputy
director of the PIU has reasonably good experience in
procurement, the overall risk assessment could have been in
the average category. However, during implementation of the
IBTA-I the PIU had a number of procurement problems
including misprocurement.
The threshold package shall be Goods exceeding $100,000
will be procured through ICB: Goods costing less than
$100,000 may be procured through IS ; Goods less than
$50,000 or equivalent will be procured through NS.
Project Management Summary of Assessment:
Results of the assessment
The significant strengths that provide a basis for relying on the project financial management
system include: (i) the experience of the PIU of implementing IDA-assisted projects and satisfying financial
management requirements; and (ii) the unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued,
under the previous project (IBTA-1) by the auditor.
Readiness for Implementation and Risks
- 66 -



The financial management arrangements of the projects are adequate: the capacity of the PIU has
been fully assessed during the appraisal; a satisfactory financial management system is in place (which
assisted the PPF); the project auditor has been appointed. The only matters requiring attention prior to the
start of project implementation relate to the fine-tuning of the project's accounting software to incorporate
and reflect final disbursement categories, disbursement percentages and project activities (as agreed on at
Negotiations) and also any specific reporting requirements that may be established by the Government.
Steps will be taken to ensure that the PIU accounting and disbursement staff are fully trained.
Country context
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Azerbaijan is under preparation. The
Initiating Concept Memorandum (ICM) outlined that the public finances management needs strengthening.
In conjunction with the CFAA, the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II), and the ensuing
technical assistance provided under the Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA-II), are
supporting the Government with the introduction of appropriate policy actions and financial accountability
refonns - such as improving budget execution through improved Treasury operations; and strengthening
legislative oversight by making the Chamber of Accounts (the country Supreme Audit Institution) to
become fully operational.
Project information system
The PIU has demonstrated its ability to timely produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) using a customized project accounting software "IC". The software
chart of accounts is being expanded to opportunely capture project funding and expenditure classifications.
The PIU will be producing a set of FMRs every six months through the life of the project.
Implementation of this project will extend over four and a half years. Given the generally weak
institutional capacity in Azerbaijan, effective project implementation arrangements can mitigate some of the
implementation risks. To obtain greater ownership and commitment from all stakeholders, and to fully
exploit the knowledge and technical capability already in place, an agreement has been reached with the
Government to assign the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for IBTA-I to oversee project
coordination and implementation for IBTA-II.
In terms of institutional and implementation arrangements, the day-to-day project coordination and
implementation responsibility lies with the PIU under the direct supervision of the Ministry of Economic
Development (MED). In view of the multi-sectoral nature of the project, and the need for frequent
inter-ministerial coordination in the decision-making and monitoring process, the Department of Economy
and Financial Credit Policy (DEFCP) within the Cabinet of Ministers, which has experience in dealing
with international financial institutions. would also assist in the implementation of the project. This dual
responsibility is intended to facilitate project execution and, at the same time, to ensure enlarged oversight
over project activities.
Key features of the proposed implementation arrangements are as follows:
* All work relating to project fiduciary functions (procurement, disbursement, financial management) as
well as project monitoring are centralized in the PIU and assigned to experienced consultants. Financial
management procedures are duly explained in a comprehensive Financial Management Manual prepared by
the PIU. Ring-fencing is a response to the need of introducing and maintaining an adequate control
framework over the operation of sensitive, potential risky areas.
- 67 -



* Existing staff of the IBTA-I PIU will perform IBTA II-related functions as part of their normal duties.
In particular, there are an accountant and a disbursement officer in place, to ensure adequate authorization
and separation of duties.
* Administrative and executive authority with respect to all other aspects of project implementation solely
rest with Government personnel. This will ensure borrower's ownership and commitment to smooth and
effective project execution.
* To this end, each beneficiary agency is asked to nominate one or more senior officials to liaise with the
international and local experts to be engaged under the IBTA II for the various project components, and to
ensure that they perform the work as scheduled and of satisfactory quality from the technical viewpoint.
Only after the designated official in the beneficiary agency signs off will requests for payment be
processed by the PIU. This is aimed at ensuring efficient and cost-effective delivery of outputs under the
project, together with enlarged scrutiny over project transactions.
* The beneficiary agencies include the following: (i) Ministry of Economic Development and DEFCP
(oversight and coordination of IBTA II); (ii) Ministry of Finance (public expenditure reform; reform of
audit and financial controls; Treasury operations; (iii) Ministry of Economic Development (public
investment program; private sector development); (vi) Ministry of Health (health expenditures reform); (vii)
Ministry of Education (education expenditures reform); (viii) Minister of Labor and Social Protection
(social assistance reform and labor redeployment); (ix) State Agency for Procurement (public procurement
reform); (x) Chamber of Accounts (extemal audit reform).
Audit arrangements:
An independent, private sector auditor acceptable to the IDA has been appointed for the audit of all
project accounts. Annual audits will be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines on project auditing
and financial reporting as outlined in The World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance with the International Standards
on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report for the
project will include separate opinions for the project financial statements, the Special Account, and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The Borrower will submit to the IDA audited financial statements and
the audit report within six months following the fiscal year-end.
Funds Flow
Project funds will flow from: (i) the IDA, either via a Special Account which will be replenished
on the basis of SOES or by direct payments on the basis of specific withdrawal applications; or (ii) the
Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the basis of payment requests prepared
by the PIU.
Disbursement arrangements:
IDA funds will be disbursed under traditional procedures including use of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and direct payments. All supporting documents for expenditures financed on the basis
of SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the implementing team for at
least one year after disbursements and made available for review by IDA representatives and external
auditors. Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation of
full documentation relating to those expenditures. Although the PIU has recently strengthened its capacity
to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), there is no plan to move to report-based disbursement.
- 68 -



Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate a
Special Account specifically for this project with the Intemational Bank of Azerbaijan, which is acceptable
to the IDA. The commercial bank will issue a comfort letter, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure and attachment. The administration of the Special Account, including preparation of
withdrawal applications and replenishment of the account, will be the responsibility of the PIU.
In parallel, a Project Account in local currency will also be established to facilitate payment for
project expenditures financed from counterpart-funds. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will
deposit initially USD 50,000 equivalent in the Project Account to cover contractual obligations for the first
few months of project execution, with replenishments made as this amount is drawn down.
Supervision Plan
During project implementation, the IDA will supervise that the project maintains
satisfactory financial management arrangements in two main ways: (i) off-site, by reviewing the
project's six-monthly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) as well as the project's annual audited
financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii) on-site, during the IDA's regular,
periodic supervision missions, by reviewing a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special
Account. As required, an accredited Financial Management Specialist (FMS) will assist in the
supervision process
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
ErojectXSc,heduleiTt,. -                                               -F: Ž^? -;2-A- b! t.us';T.@> ,,. PlannedP  cal if
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                   8
First Bank mission (identification)             07/19/1999                    12/12/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     04/01/2002                   04/01/2002
Negotiations                                    05/14/2002                   05/14/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/30/2002
Prepared by:
Note: The project schedule was revised following the prepartion of the SAC-Il in the second part of
2001 and is reflected above.
The project was prepared with the participation of: the Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economic
Development; Ministry of Education; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Labor and Social Protection;
Chamber of Accounts; State Procurement Agency.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     SpeciaIity^
Samuel Otoo                       Sector Manager
John Kendall                      Peer Reviewer
Anthony Cholst                    Peer Reviewer
Pervaiz Rashid                    Lead Specialist, Quality Assurance
Akbar Noman                       Resident Respresentative
Chirstian Petersen                Lead Economist
Ali Hashim                         Treasury Operations
Sudhee Sen Gupta                  Private Sector Development
Gurcharan Singh                   Procurement Specialist
Richard James                     Consultant
Khalifa Lkramullah                Consultant
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani             Country Lawyer
Junko Funahashi                   Country Lawyer
Roberto Tarallo                   Financial Management Specialist
Nina Budina                       Country Economist
Farid Alexandre Mamedov           Operations Officer
Mismake Galatis                   Team Assistant
Mansour Farsad                    Task Team Leader
- 70-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan includes the following:
* Role, responsibility and staffing of the borrower for project preparation, including designation
of a project preparation team (IDA and Borrower).
* Arrangements for local/foreign consultant inputs.*
* Timetable for project preparation.
* Milestones for progress review and any discussions by the IDA.
* Key outputs of project implementation.
* Modalities of project implementation and analytical tools, e.g., beneficiary participation in
project design, beneficiary surveys, use of logical framework
* The proposed public consultation/participation process
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Public Sector Strategy Paper, March 1999.
* Aides Memoire from preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, 2001-2002.
* Back To Office Reports, 2001-2002.
* Letters to Government.
C. Other
Documents relating to Project Preparation Facility (Q 196-0 AZ), e.g. Transmittal Memo, Letter of
Agreement, approved Budget, etc.
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA                       Cancel   Undiab.     Orig  Fmm Revld
POSS131      2002 SAC 2                                       000      6000                         0 00    30 38    -30.27     0.00
P040716      2001 HIGHWAY                                     0.00     40 00                        0.00    39 23      0 00     0 00
P069293      2001 HEALTHREFUL                                 000       6.00                        0.00     4.84     -019      000
P070973      2001 FIN SCT TA                                  000       5 40                        000      5.39      0.00     0 00
P008284      2000 IRRIG/DRAINAGE REHAB                        0.00     42 00                        0.00    32 63      1.75     0.00
P058969      1999 CULTHERITAGEPRSV                            000       750                         0.00     604       477      00o
P057959      1999 EDUC REF                                    0.00      500                         0.00     227       251      000
P035813      1999 AGRlcDEVTaCREDIT                            000      3000                         000     21.17      9.10     000
P035770      1999 PILOTRECON                                  000      2000                         000     10.40     1093      000
POss504      1999 RECNSTR PILOT (IDP)                         0.00     1000                         0.00     83       -0 92     0 00
P055155      1998 URG ENV INVST-AZ                            0.00     20.00                        0.00    16.24     15 78     2 38
P040544      1997 FARM PRIV                                   000      14.70                        0 00     1.00      217      0 00
P008287      1997 GAS REHAB                                   0.00     20.20                        0.27     6 39      8.39     8 05
P008283      1996 IBTA                                        000      18.00                        0.22     1 79      4.51     0.00
P008288      1995 BAKUWS                                      0.00     6100                         0.00     1.84     11.15     719
Total:      000     358.80                        049     187.98     3968     17.62
AZERBAIJAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of April 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partfc
1999                   Amoco Caspian                      27.08      0.00      0.00      3.31     27.08     0.00       0.00      3.31
1998                   Azerb. JV Bank                      0.00      1.00      0.00     '0.00      0.00      1.00      0.00     0.00
1997/98                Baku Coca Cola                      3.50      2.30      0.00      0.00      3.50     2.30       0.00     0.00
1999                   Baku Hotel                         13.13      0.00      0.00      0.00     13.13     0.00       0.00     0.00
1999                   Early Oil Fin                      12.74      0.00      0.00      1.56     12.74      0.00      0.00      1.56
1999                   Lukoil Overseas                    15.92      0.00      0.00      1.95     15.92     0.00       0.00      1.95
1999                   Turkish Petrol                     10.75      0.00      0.00      1.32     10.75     0.00       0.00      1.32
1999                   Unocal Chirag                      16.01      0.00      0.00      1.96     16.01     0.00       0.00      1.96
Total Portfolio:             99.13      3.30      0.00     10.09     99.13      3.30      0.00     10.09
Approvals Pending Commitnent
FY Approval           Company                                 Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
2001                  Azer JV Increase                         0.00       0.06        0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitnent:               0.00        0.06        0.00       0.00
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AZERBAIJAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central     Low-
Azerbaijan      Asia   Income       Development dlamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                        8 1       475     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     650      2.010      420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       5 3       956      1.030
Average annual growth, 199541
Populatilon (%)                                        0.9        01        1 9
Labor force (X)                                        1.8        0.6       2 4     G1rI      '                     Gross
per           .        '       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199541)                                capita            .         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   68
Urban populaton (X of total population)                 58        67        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        71        69        59
Infant mortalIty (per 1,000 live births)                16        21        77
Child malnutritlon (% of children under 5)              10                               Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (%of populatton)       .       90        76
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                               3        38
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age Population)  106       100        96                  Azerbagan
Male                                                 108       101       102                   Low-income group
Female                                               105        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              ,,               53         57
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                                    17.5      27 2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                               40 7      41 0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                       196      30 9
Gross national savings/GDP                                       15.1      26 0
Current account balance/GDP                                      -2.4      -1 3     Domestic
Interest Pavments/GDP                                            0.7       0.5                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  22 5       22 8                      .
Total debt service/exports                                        8.1       4 6
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           27      11.1       90         8.1            -     Azerbayan
GDP per capita                                1 7     10.1       81         7.1                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 9.0     17.8      24 4       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                         soT
Agriculture                                                      18.1      181 e1
Industry                                                        36.4      35 1      40
olw Oil and gas                                                25 5      21 3      20
Services                                                         38 3      38.5      0
De s      97         o'05       5
Private consumption                                             69.9      59 0      40
General govemment consumption                                    10.5      10 1    JGD1                    -     GDP
Imports of goods and services                                   38.4      37 4
1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            20        12.1       9.1    so
Industry                                              -3 5       6.7        5 8    4 '
o/w Oil and Gas                                     -10.0      150        8 5     20
Services                                              150        11.9       90
Private consumption                                    48        88       -10 5    20
General govemment consumption                          1.9      12 8       -05 
Gross domestic Investment                              9.2       0 3      58 1                   Exports     0   Imports
Imports of goods and services                          5 6       89        12 3
Note. 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators In the countrv (In bold) compared with Its Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 73 -



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      s-
Consumer prices                                                18       2.0     400
Implicit GDP deflator                                         12 4      3 2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                 *
Current revenue                                               212      216      200
Current budget balance                                         3        4 7             -     GDP deflator  _-  CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                        .0 ..             .6      0 9
TRADE
(UJSS millions)                            1981    1991       2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                          1,877    2.046     2,s00
Commodity 1                                  .       .      1,044    1,081
Commodity 2                                 ..       .       563      365     2.000
Manufactures                                ..       .         -9     205     1.500
Total Imports (cif)                           .      336     1,539     1,465    1,000
Food                                                  .               228
Fuel and energy                                            .            6       so:
Capital goods                               ..       ..      147      138
Export price Index (1995=100)                 .,      ..       180      156 8s             95   97   9so           01
Import price index (1995=100)                 .        .       109      102                 KExports      EmportS
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                      16 .  15  153
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                          .     2.137    2,336      0
Imports of goods and services                                2,024    2.130  ^       *fl
Resource balance                              ..       .       113      206    -10       *
Net income                                    ..       .      -310     -356     15
Net current transfers                        ..        .        73       77                  I    I*
Current account balance                                .      -124      -73     25
Financing items (net)                        ..        .       182      147     30
Changes in net reserves                                .       -58      -74    -3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       ..        .       680      725
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)              ..      ..    4,472 0  4,654 2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                  ComposItion of 2001 debt (USS mill.j
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..       .     1,184     1,296
IBRD                                        ..      ..         0        0
IDA                                         .        ..      216      259                 s158           259
Total debtservice                              .               181      113
iBRD                                       2. ..               0        0         F. 145
IDA                                         .        ..        2        2
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             .    .             0                                            c 267
Offclail creditors                          .        ..       80      297
Private creditors                          ..        .        45       19          E 267
Foreign direct Investment                   ..      ..       119      256
Portfolio equity                            .           ..     0        .                      D 202
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..         .        ..    A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Dlsbursements                                .       ..                43     8 - IDA   0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         .       ..        0        0     C-IMF                      G - Short-temm
Net flows                                   ..      ..         .       43
Interest payments                          ..                  2        2
Net transfers                                   ..        .            41
Development Economics                                                                                            5/21/02
- 74 -



To              ~~~~~~RUSSIAN  roKy-A
GEO     R G I A              R              FEDERATION      TO]                                AZ ER BAI JAN
R.                    o                        0  SELECTED CTIES AND TOWNS
I)                           *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL.
1                                       -  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOADS
..r                            -   R~~~~~~~~~~~AIUROADS
- Shon. ,,,      -)                                                            - RIVERS
.n>>7 Togluoz    K%r),J1)  Re-or9                                                       --  INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES
ARMENIA                                             ==ko
. - ) ot w A 4 K.B                            I J A NS 
CASPIAN       SEA
4W'
t X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K R,0.                                         00g 00tA ISFofUSSA , \-o 010  I dn,
(             ,            1                    -          ui  \ _     \.- Caspisn-  _
UKRAINE    J           ..   KAZAIGISTAN
RUSSIAN
ChuI6                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION
ISLAMIC   REPUBLIC   OF IRAN
-<      -   1,       S    ryR,,-,,,&", /IRAQ  ISLAMIC REP OFIRAN  14









IMAGING
Report No.:        23836   AZ
Type:     PAD



