                                                                                       35481
                                    Republic of Azerbaijan


          SecondInstitutionBuildingTechnicalAssistanceProject(Credit3663-AZ)
  ProposedProjectRestructuringand Amendmentof the DevelopmentCreditAgreement




Summary

 1.     This is to seek approval of the Boardto amend the development objectives and scope of
the Second InstitutionalBuildingTechnical Assistance Project (IBTA-2) in Azerbaijan, resulting
from the need to provide urgent support to address the threat posed by Highly Pathogenic Avian
Influenza (HPAI). The restructuring of the project i s undertaken in parallel with other Bank
efforts to fight against the global threat posed by HPAI, in particular the Global Program for
Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI) approved by the
Board on January 12, 2006. Given the urgent situation facing Azerbaijan, this restructuring i s
processedunderthe Bank's emergency policy, OP/BP 8.50.

2.      OnFebruary 13, 2006 the Government of Azerbaijan formally requestedthe restructuring
of IBTA-2 in order to utilize project savings of about US$5.1 million to support its efforts to
prevent and contain the risks of Avian Influenza.       IBTA-2 i s financed under Credit 3663-AZ
(SDR7,470,000, equivalent at the time to US$9,450,000), which was approved by the Board on
June 18, 2002 and became effective on December 24, 2002. The project's original components
comprised: (i) enhancing accountability in public financial management; (ii)improving the
public expenditure management process; (iii)    reforming social expenditures; and (iv) promoting
privatization and private sector development. To date, under the first component, the project has
contributed to building capacity at the Chamber of Accounts and to improving public
procurement legislation, while under the second component it has built initial capacity to
formulate a public investment program and to implement the country's new Treasury
Information Management System. Under the third component, the project has strengthened
capacity for poverty analysis.

3.      Savings have accumulated under IBTA-2 from several sources.                  First, several
components were delivered at a lower cost than originally anticipated, compounding the savings
accumulated from the appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar. It has therefore been
unnecessary to draw on the project's contingencies allocation, which has been maintained in its
entirety. Finally, the Government has sought grant funding for activities to improve the business
environment and has, reasonably, decided to precede privatization with adjustments in utilities
tariffs and introduction of a targeted social safety net, rendering the funding allocated under the
fourth component of lower priority at this time.

 I.TheAvianInfluenzaThreatinAzerbaijan

 4.      There have been widespread reports of deaths of wild birds along the Caspian Sea
 shore and of poultry in Azerbaijan. On February 10, 2006, official tests carried out by the OIE
 (World Animal Health Organization) reference laboratory in Weybridge (UK)on some wild bird
 samples from Azerbaijan were positive for the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain of avian flu. The
 Veterinary Department reported to the OIE on February 24, 2006 that the disease had been
 confirmed in domestic poultry. In addition, several animal and human avian flu cases have
 affected areas of eastern Turkey, very close to the border with Azerbaijan and other countries in
 the South Caucasus. Since the large majority of domestic birds in Azerbaijan (around 78
 percent) are kept in household backyards in close contact with humans, the risk of spreading
 from domestic birds to humans i s high, although no human cases have been confirmedto date.

 5.      Early February 2006 assessment missions by WHO and FAO/OIE diagnosed the
 country surveillance and containment capacity as weak on both the veterinary and human
health sides. The main issues identified included: (i)the need to strengthen inter-ministerial
 coordination and to integrate initial action plans developed by the veterinary and human health
 authorities; (ii)critical supplies are insufficient, inadequate and unevenly distributed; (iii)
training for HPAI is ad hoc and needs to be stepped up significantly; (iv) HPAI diagnostic
capacity i s insufficient, particularly on the human side -while veterinary services recently
purchased new diagnostic equipment (Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction), but capacity for
sampling, preparation, and interpretation of results i s weak; (v) insufficient quantity, quality and
use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and disinfecting equipment; (vi) deficiencies in the
infrastructure of laboratories, affecting their bio-safety; (vii) inadequate isolation capacity and
patient care facilities (no Intensive Treatmendcare Unit) of the HPAI management hospital
(Hospital 7 in Baku); (viii) lack of protocols and guidelines (assessment, investigation,
containment, culling, compensation, treatment of patients with influenza-like illness); (ix)
insufficient stockpile of antiviral drugs and a usage strategy needs to be developed; (x) no
systematic vaccination against seasonal influenza of personnel at risk; and (xi) weak supply of
clear and consistent information, creating confusion and reduced trust in public institutions. The
Bank and other donor partners are working actively with the Government to address these issues.

6.      I n response to the risks posed by the Avian Influenza threat, the Government has
developed and begun implementation of an Action Plan for Prevention and Containment of
HPAI, under the coordinationof theAzeri Commissionon Avian Influenza. The Commission
includes all relevant Ministries, under the chairmanship of First Deputy Prime Minister Mr.
Abbas Abbasov. A working group has been established by the Ministries of Health, Agriculture,
and Ecology and Natural Resources. The Joint Plan incorporates the main recommendations of
the WHO and FAO/OIE missions, and provides a good basis for strengthened actions on the
animal and human health sides, although greater efforts are still needed to integrate, reconcile,
address gaps and avoid overlaps between activities planned by the different ministries. The Plan
includes the following main actions: (i)  banning of the import of live birds and poultry products
from countries at risk (Turkey, Russia, and Iran among others); (ii)requirements that poultry
farms follow strict sanitary-epidemiological and veterinary regulations; (iii)increased
monitoring of bird deaths and illnesses and human influenza; (iv) a public awareness campaign
through the mass media to keep the population informed; (v) restriction of chicken sales to



                                                  2

 controlled shops and supermarkets; (vi) banning of wild bird hunting and sale; (vii) bird
 shootings for research purposes in major hot spots and protected areas; (viii) vaccination of
 chickens against Newcastle disease, which i s endemic in Azerbaijan and with symptoms similar
 to Avian Influenza (AI); and (ix) disinfection of vehicles passing the borders with neighboring
 countries. Most commercial poultry farms have asked their employees (and, if possible, their
 neighbors) not to keep domestic birds at home. In exchange, employees are receiving free
 chicken meat from the farms, in part because market demand for poultry products has dropped
 significantly. The total funding neededto implement the Joint Action Plan i s still under review
 by the Government and donors, but is tentatively estimated to be at a minimum in the range of
 US$18-20million.


 11.     IBTA-2ProjectDevelopment Objectives

 7.      The IBTA-2 project development objectives would be amended to include minimization
 of the threat posed to humans by HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry and
 preparation for the control and response to an influenza pandemic and other infectious diseases.
 To achieve the additional project objectives, the project will support: (i)prevention; (ii)
 preparedness and planning; and (iii)response and containment. Achieving these goals will
 contribute to diminishing the burden of disease and loss of productivity, limiting the regional
 spread of HPAI, and enhancing economic and social safety at the national, regional, and global
 levels.


111.    Project Restructuring

8.      The ongoing components of IBTA-2 are expected to be implemented by June 30, 2006,
leaving an estimated US$5,145,000 of credit funds available for cancellation or reallocation. On
the basis of the Government's request to the Bank of February 13, 2006, the project would be
restructured and the uncommitted funds allocated to finance the following four new components:

9.      Component I Veterinary Services. This component will support national prevention
                       -
and control strategies proposed by the Republic of Azerbaijan to cover its needs in the short and
medium term based on the assessments of the AI preparedness of the National Veterinary
Services and the vulnerability of the livestock sector to new emerging infectious diseases. This
component will support the following five areas of activity: (i) enhancing HPAI prevention and
preparednesscapability; (ii) strengthening of veterinary services, disease surveillance, diagnostic
capacity and applied research for HPAI and other zoonoses; (iii)   strengthening of HPAI control
programs and outbreak containment plans as well as capacities to implement those plans; (iv)
improving bio-security in poultry production and trade, isolating its potentially adverse effects
on other aspects of people's lives, and (v) assistance in the design of a compensation fund for
both commercial and small backyard poultry growers, which will help to mitigate economic
losses.

10.     Component I1 Human Health. This component will address short and medium term
                       -
needs with respect to core public health functions. Building an effective national public health



                                                3

 response requires an enabling environment and the necessary resources to quickly scale up
 proven interventions nationwide.    Thus, the restructured project will help to operationalize
 elements of the Government's Joint Plan of Action, thereby expanding and intensifying the
 responses rapidly. The emphasis will be on reducing the risks of animal to human transmission
 and on reducingthe impact of a global pandemic, if one were to develop.. Several tools will help
 achieve these aims: (i) year-round surveillance; (ii)
                                                     effective and accurate methods of diagnosis;
 (iii)planningfor socialdistancinginterventions; and(vi) strengthenedmedicalservices. The
 interventions supported under the restructured project will be based on Azerbaijan's
 epidemiological and programmatic needs, and well-assessed options for meeting them. The
interventions will be grouped in two sub-components: (i)      enhancing Public Health Program
planning and coordination; and (ii)strengthening of National Public Health Surveillance
 Systems.

 11.    ComponentI11 PublicAwareness. This component is designedto promote awareness
                         -
and coordination for the execution of the contingency plans and the national AI strategy. It is
designed to safeguard human health, in particular for animal health workers, poultry backyard
producers and their families, and consumers, by improving knowledge and consequently
behaviors. It i s also designed to contain the damage to large scale poultry production. A
comprehensive communication strategy has been partially elaborated, in cooperation with the
international community and national authorities.    Support will be provided to the relevant
government agencies and NGOs for communication activities, in order to increase the
commitment of government, private sector, and civil society organizations, and raise awareness,
knowledge and understanding among the different groups of stakeholders about the risk and
potential impact of AI.      Activities will include: (i)deveIopment and dissemination of
communication materials for producers, consumers, technicians, medical personnel, children and
teenagers, etc.; (ii)
                    design and realization of training courses, seminars, workshops and other
events for extension and veterinary staff, health workers at the regional and district levels,
teachers and media people; and (iii)strengthening effective coordination and collaboration
among national agencies, NGOs and the internationalcommunity.

12.     Component IV     - Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation. The
component would support costs associated with: (i)project management and coordination,
including the provision of technical assistance for procurement, financial management and
training; and (ii)project monitoring and impact evaluation assessments.


IV.FinancingPlan

13.     Azerbaijan's current financing needs to fight HPAI have been estimated to be about
US$18-20 million by government and the international community, based on the
abovementioned FAONHO missions and follow-up work by the Bank and other donors. This
estimate may increase depending on further development of the emergency situation.            A
breakdown of cost categories and possible funding sources i s presented inTable 1below.




                                               4

                    Table 1.Azerbaijan HPAI: Short and Medium Term
                                          -
                             EstimatedNeedsand FundingSources
                                                                          Imple-
             Component                   Vet.    Human       Public     mentation,
             Financier                 Services  Health Awareness          M&E        TOTAL

  Total EstimatedNeeds                   10.0      6.0         2.5          0.3        18.8

  Total IdentifiedFinancing              9.4       4.4         0.9          0.3        15.0
   Government                            3.0       0.3         0.1          0.1         3.4
   ProposedIBTA-2 Restructuring
   (WB)                                  3.7       1.o         0.2          0.2         5.1
   OngoingAgricultural Develop-
   ment andCredit Project-1(WB)          0.2                                            0.2

   OngoingHealthLIL(WB)                            0.4                                  0.4
   ProposedADCP-2 Project
   (WB)                                  2.0                   0.3                      2.3
   ProposedHealth ReformProject
   (WB)                                            1.2        0.2                       1.4
   Asian DevelopmentBank
   (ADB)                                 0.2                                            0.2

   UNICEF                                                     0.1                       0.1
   U S Agency for International
   Development(USAID)                    0.2       0.3        0.1                       0.7

   Otherpartners                                   1.2                                  1.2
 FinancingGap                            0.6       1.6        1.6           0.0         3.8



14.     World Bank Support. The Bank i s already providing some immediate support for
critically needed veterinary and hospital equipment and supplies are being provided under two
ongoing World Bank financed projects (ADCP-1 and Health LIL) that include veterinary
services and humanhealth amongtheir respectivemain development objectives. Unfortunately,
both projects are in the final stages of implementation and therefore only very limited
uncommittedfunding i s available. Additional support for the A I response is planned under two
new projects now under preparation, Agriculture Development Credit Project-2 (ADCP-2) for
animal health services, and the Health Reform Project for human health needs. Although these
two projects will be presentedfor Board consideration within the next 3-4 months, they are not
likely to become effective until later in 2006.   For these reasons, and given the urgency of
assisting Azerbaijan in its efforts to prevent and contain the spread of avian influenza at the
present time, it proposedto restructure IBTA-2 in order to draw on the uncommittedbalance of
Credit 3663-AZ.

15.     Partner Coordination. The Bank is participating in extensive coordination efforts
which are being carried out by UNICEF, ADB, EU, FAO, OIE. WHO, WFP, UNDP, UNHCR,
UNIFEM, USAID, JICA, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the



                                               5

International Medical Corps (IMC) and British Petroleum (BP). A working group on
communication has been established and is operational. As indicated in the financing table
above, many donors are or expect to contribute financial or in-kind support to help the
Governmentimplementits AIresponseplan.


V. ImplementationArrangements

16.    Management of the restructured project will be carried out by the Project Management
Unit of the State Agency for Agricultural Credits inthe Ministryof Agriculture, under a separate
special account covering the IBTA-2 Avian Flu components. As this unit has been handling
implementation of the ongoing ADCP-1 project in a satisfactory manner and therefore has
experience with World Bank procurement and financial management requirements, it is
considered the best option for rapid implementation. The Unit's technical capacity will be
strengthened, particularlyinthe area of humanhealthandcommunications.

17.    The closing date of Credit 3663-AZwouldbeextendedfrom the current June 30,2007 to
March30,2008.




                                             6

                      Annex 1 Reallocation of Credit Proceeds
                                 -

1.   The reallocationof credit proceedswould beundertakenaccordingto table A l . l below.


                     Table Al.l Reallocation of Credit Proceeds

                                           Original       Revised          Change
               Category                  Allocation      Allocation         (SDR)
                                            (SDR)          (SDR)
  1      Goods                           3,080,000.00    2,280,000.00      -800,000.00
  1(a)   Goodsfor AI-Vetern. Serv.                0.00   2,100,000.00     2,100,000.00
  1(b)   Goods for AI-Other                       0.00     890,000.00       890,000.00
  2      Consultants& training           3,195,000.00    1,230,000.00    -1,965,000.00
  2 (a)  Consultants& training for A I            0.00     280,000.00       280,000.00
  3      OperatingCosts                    450,000.00      120,000.00      -330,000.00
  3 (a)  Op. Costs for A I                       0.00       55,000.00        55,000.00
  4      PPF                               695,000.00      256,3 13.10     -438,686.90
  5      Unallocated                         50,000.00     48,686.90          -1,313.10
  6      Works                                   0.00     210,000.00        210,000.00
         TOTAL                           7,470,000.00    7,470,000.00               0.00




                                         7

                                 Annex 2 Sector Background
                                           -
 1.     InAzerbaijan, agriculture accounted for approximately 12.3 percent of nationalGDP and
40 percent of employment in 2004. In addition, agro-industry (including textiles) represented
over 50 percent of total manufacturing employment. The sector has a critical role to play in the
government's strategy for non-oil sector diversification.

2.      As a result of farm privatization and other reforms, small-scale agriculture has led a
recovery in sectoral output: by 2003, overall agricultural output had increased by a total of 53
percent over 1995 levels (although still only 79 percent of the 1990 levels). The contribution of
small farmers to this revival i s evidenced by the substantial increase in production from
household and private farms. The livestock privatization process has been smooth, and has
helped Azerbaijan avoid the dramatic decline in herd sizes seen in some other CIS countries.
Total livestock numbers were twice as high in 2002 as they were in 1990 and are now mainly in
the hands of smallholders.

3.      Poultry contributes about 1percent of total GDP, 6 percent of agricultural output, and 14
percent of livestock GDP. The total value of the industry (meat and eggs) was about US$90
million in 2004. The estimated number of chickens was around 17.5 million in 2005, although
this could be underestimated due to the large number of chickens and other domestic birds in
household backyards. According to official estimates, there are 4.2 chickens per rural inhabitant,
a ratio similar to the average of developing countries. Household backyards and small scale
poultry farms account for 78 percent of domestic birds and produce about 53 percent of poultry
meat and 66 percent of eggs. The remainder i s produced by about 20 large agricultural
enterprises. In 2004 Azerbaijan imported 2.4 million birds and 26,000 tons of poultry meat for a
total value of $14.2 million. Only eggs are exported (22 million or 3 percent of total production).
The current average price of 1 kg of chicken meat and dozen of eggs is about $2.5 and $1.1
respectively.

4.      The overall responsibility for animal health in Azerbaijan rests with the State Veterinary
Service under the Ministry of Agriculture. The share of total public expenditures for agriculture,
forestry and fisheries was about 4.9 percent in 2005. A new law that envisages streamlining of
the State Veterinary Service was approved in November 2005. The ongoing Bank-financed
ADCP-1 project is supporting private veterinary pilots, and it is expected that the follow-up
ADCP-2 project will expand support to the Veterinary Service.




                                               8

                   Annex 3 Environmentaland SocialSafeguardAspects
                             -

 1.     The proposed restructuring and amendment of the development objectives and scope of
IBTA-2 has changed the Environmental Category of the project from "C" to "B."           Although
project activities supporting AI prevention, preparedness and planning, and response and
containment are not expected to generate significant adverse environmental effects, they do
present a moderate environmental risk. Overall the prevention-focused activities are expected to
have a positive environmental impact, as the investments infacilities, equipment, and training for
laboratories will improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and
testing procedures by meeting international standards established by the OIE. This would be
reinforced by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for
the culling and disposal of animals duringAIoutbreaks.

2.      The Borrower i s preparing an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to address the
moderate adverse environmental effects. For the Veterinary Services component, the EMP will
address zoonotic disease containment       and waste management as pertain to special waste,
emissions and materials at laboratories, and training for veterinary services workers, to include
procedures for safe handling of AI materials; safe culling of infected and at-risk poultry and
disposal of carcasses. For the Human Health component, the EMP will focus on equipment,
refurbishingand training for reference and regional diagnostic laboratories to adopt international
environmental standards in AI-related disease containment and waste management. Given the
urgency of processing the proposed restructuring and credit amendment, the Bank has, under OP
4.01, as outlined in paragraph 12, and consistent with emergency restructuring under OP/BP
8.50, agreed to a delay of the preparation of the EMP by the Borrower. Completion of the EMP
will form condition of disbursement for the Veterinary Services component specified above.

3.     While no formal social impact assessment has been conducted, the impact of the AI
project activities on key stakeholders should be beneficial.         Main stakeholders include
commercial and small backyard poultry farmers, veterinary and public health service workers,
laboratory staff, and consumers. The Government has requested support from the project to
design a compensation fund for both commercial and small backyard poultry growers, which will
helpto mitigate the economic losses. Public concerns about consuming poultry and information
about personal safety measures will be addressed through the information communications
component. The project does not raise any resettlement issues.




                                                9

                                   Annex 4  -FiduciaryAspects

 FinancialManagement

 1.     The unit that i s implementing the ongoing ADCP will have the overall responsibility for
 management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, financial management -including project
 accounting, financial reporting, disbursements, auditing arrangements, and procurement
management of the project activities supporting the avian influenza prevention and response.
Assessment of the Project Management Unit's (PMU) existing financial management systems
concluded that systems and controls efficiently and reliably provide information requiredto
manage and monitor the implementationof the restructuredProject. There are no overdue audit
reports.

2.1     The IDA Credit will be disbursed against: (i)the Withdrawal Procedure, including
disbursement through the Special Account, direct payment to third parties and on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); and (ii)    the Special Commitment procedure. To facilitate
project implementation, the Borrower will open a separate Special Account for IDA funds for the
proposed Avian Flu component on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special
Account will be replenished regularly, at least every three months, and audited in conjunction
with the annual audit of the project. In addition, the Borrower will open a separate Project
Account for counterpart funding in a local bank satisfactory to IDA with an initial deposit in
local currency equivalent of US$lOO,OOO, and thereafter maintain a balance in the account to
finance project expenditures untilcompletion of the project.

3.     Financial Covenants. The PMU will be required to maintain a financial management
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements adequate to reflect
operations, resources and expenditures related to the project. The quarterly Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after end of each quarter.
The project records and accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report submitted to IDA no later than six
months after each year audited. The audit report will consist of a single opinion on the financial
statements of the project, including Special Account Reconciliation, disbursements made on
basis of Statementsof Expenditure, as well as a Management Letter.

ProcurementArrangements

4.       As described in OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA), in addition to
emergency assistance, IDA may support operations for prevention and mitigation in countries
prone to specific types of emergencies. Such operations may assist in: (i)  developing a national
strategy, (ii)
             establishing an adequate institutional and regulatory framework, (iii) carrying out
studies of vulnerability and risk assessment, (iv) reinforcing vulnerable structures, and (v)
acquiring hazard-reduction technology.

5.      Given the threat that HPIA may pose to the economy and to the health and well-being of
the population, the Bank's support under the restructured IBTA-2 project i s being processed
underERA procedures. Procurement underthe Projectwill becarried out inaccordance with the



                                                10

Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1995, revised
January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999), and with the provisions
stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement and amendments. Agreements covering
procurement methods, thresholds, and other conditionality are consistent with ERA guidelines
anddeterminedfor the AzerbaijanRepublic accordingto its capacity and experience with World
Bank procurement. The activities coveredunder the Credit will be implementedon the basis of
annual work plans to allow for neededflexibility in adjusting activities to account for in-country
experience and the lessons from implementationby other countries participating in the multi-
country GPAI. Accordingly, the followingapproachto procurementwill be adopted.

6.      ImplementingAgency Assessment. The Bank has carried out a procurement capacity
assessment of the ADCP PMU. The project team found the PMU capable to carry out the
procurement for the proposedtask. Staff in the ADCP PMUare experienced with procurement
following World Bank guidelines, including with all the procurement methods to be included
under the restructuredproject. Procurement under the ongoing ADCP has worked well. The
same qualified staff will be responsible for procurement under the amended IBTA-2. The
restructuredproject hasbeenclassifiedincategory "B", signifyingmediumrisks.

7.      ProcurementPlan. A Procurement Plan (PP) coveringthe initial 12month periodwill
bepartof the project implementationplan. The updatedPPfor the secondyear will be submitted
to the Bank for approval beforethe end of the previous year and will use a pre-definedstandard
format which will, as a minimum, list: (i) goods and services to beprocuredduringthe following
calendar year, (ii) their value; (iii) the methodof procurement; and (iv) the timetablefor carrying
out the procurement. At the time of approvingthe annual work program, IDA will agree on the
consistency with the application of the Bank procurement guidelines to the specific procurement
lots expectedduring the year and their methods of procurement. If needed, particularlyin case
of developmentof the emergency situation, the plancouldberevisedandre-submitted.

8.       Procurement Methods and Thresholds. The Financing Agreement defines the
appropriate methods and thresholds for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), Limited InternationalBidding (LIB),or Shopping in accordance
with ERA guidelines.         Thresholds for project procurement methods and prior review
requirements have been indicated on the basis of the Bank's assessment of the capacity of the
ADCP unit which will be responsible for procurement, the estimated risks of corruption in the
country, and the country's capacity of construction and manufacturing industries. The annual
Procurement Planwill also monitor the aggregate amount procuredunder non-ICB procurement
method.




                                                 11

                        Table A4.1 ProcurementMethods and Thresholds




  Goods
  National Shopping: Goods    >US$lOO,OOO
  Direct Contracting                                    Inaccordance withpapa. 3.7 of the
                                                        Procurement Guidelines
  ICB: Works                  >US$400,000
  NCB: Works                  <US$400,000
  Small Works (Works)         <us$100,000

  Quality and Cost Based      >us$200,000
  Selection (QCBS) for        (International shortlist)
  Consultant Services         <us$100,000
                              (National shortlist)
  Selection Based on          <us$100,000
 Consultants' Qualifications
 Individual Consultants                                 Services for assignments that meet the
                                                        requirements set forth inthe first sentence of
                                                        para. 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 Single-Source Selection                                Services for tasks incircumstances which
                                                        meet the requirements of para. 3.10 o f the
                                                        Consultant Guidelines, with the Bank's prior
                                                        agreement.

9.       Prior Review by the Bank. The Development Credit Agreement shall set forth those
contracts which shall be subject to Bank's prior review processes. All other contracts shall be
subject to post review.

10.      Advertisement. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) shall be published in the on-
line edition of Development Business in March 2006. Special Procurement Notices (SPN) for all
ICB goods contracts and Requests for Expression of Interest for consulting assignments with
firms exceeding the value of US$200,000 equivalent shall be published in the Public
Procurement Bulletin, a local newspaper of a wide circulation and the on-line edition of the
UNDB and posted onthe websites of the State Procurement Agency.

11.      Inaccordance with the Bank's anti-corruption efforts, B T A - 2 will not engage services of
firms and individuals debarred by the Bank. The listing of debarred firms and individuals i s
located at: http:llwww.worldbank.o~~htmi/opr/pt.o/debarr.html.



                                                  12

12.     UNAgencies as Procurement Agents. For several years, a number of specialized UN
and bilateral agencies operating in the Region have provided support to various government
entities in the procurement of drugs, vaccines, specialized test equipment and supplies, and other
materials. Using this type of assistance will be part of the Project's procurement arrangements.
In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines Section 3.9, the Project may include the use of
Specialized Agencies of the United Nations (WHO, FA0 and UNICEF) as suppliers of goods
(mainly for drugs and vaccines and some medical supplies such as reagents), following their own
procedures of procurement.      In addition, using UNDP as procurement agent is possible in
accordance with Sections 3.10 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. The procurement agents
will follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines under the standard agreement between the Bank
and the respective agency.

13.     Procurement under Emergency Assistance Provisions. Following ERA procedures,
the Project allows for direct contracting with the prior review of the World Bank.

14.     Procurement Audits.       Because the Project has a strong element of decentralized
implementation, and to help IDA carry out post-reviews of procurement actions, consultants will
be contracted (as a cost to the Project) to carry out annual procurement audits of a sample of
contracts, under Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank.




                                                13

