Report No. PID8055
Project Name             Azerbaijan-Second Institution Building (@)
Technical Assistance Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Other Public Sector Management
Project ID               AZPE66100
Borrower(s)              AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency
Address DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN
INVESTMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic
of Azerbaijan
Address: Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Nail Fataliev, Deputy' Head
Department on Economy and Financial
Credit Policy
Ministry of Finance
Address: Samed Vurgun 83, 370601 Baku,
Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Heidar Asadov
Deputy Minister of Finance
Tel: (994-12) 93-07-43
Fax: (994-12) 98-79-69
Ministry of Economic Development
Address: Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Ulvi Nayil
Seyid-zadeh, Head, Department Foreign
Investment and International Economic
Cooperation
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        May 28, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 14, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 18, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Public sector and institutional reform has become a critical issue at this
stage of Azerbaijan's development process. This is because experience
elsewhere has shown that when public institutions do not clearly set the
rules of the game and the necessary systems of checks and balances are not
in place, opportunities can emerge for rent seeking behavior. This
behavior often impedes growth by inhibiting healthy entrepreneurial
activity and competition, leading to misallocation, and to ineffective use
of a country's scarce resources. The project seeks to assist the
Government in introducing public sector and institutional reforms to
better define the rules of the game and to put in place the processes for



the transparent application of these rules, as well as the necessary
checks and balances to reduce the opportunity for rent seeking behavior.
These reforms will become all the more important because revenues from
energy resources will increase over the next few years and mechanisms will
need to be established to ensure efficient and effective use of these
resources in support of the development objectives and a more equitable
and inclusive growth. Reform of the public sector is needed to accelerate
the development of the non-oil economy, to improve financial discipline,
and to increase efficiency of poverty-reducing public expenditures. As is
discussed below, reforming the public sector has major dimensions: in the
management of financial resources, in the management of human resources,
and, more important, in the formulation and implementation of public
policies and programs. The Government strategy recognizes that financial
reporting and audit capacity needs to be strengthened. This requires
coordination and cooperation mechanisms between the existing audit
entities so that the audit entities can institute basic systems for
transparency and accountability across the country. The public procurement
process also needs to become more competitive and transparent.The
Government's objective for strengthening the expenditure management
process and capacities is to make the budget function as a mechanism for
priority setting and decision making in the allocation of resources to
priority social needs. Many of the key elements of a budgetary system in
Azerbaijan are underdeveloped. The budgetary process and procedures must
provide a realistic and prioritized resource allocation and must ensure
that public services funded through the budget are appropriate and
adequate to the needs of the population. The public expenditure management
process must ensure that the gains expected from energy exports are
efficiently used and that the Treasury operation and associated systems
and procedures serve as efficient instrument for budget execution.Service
delivery also needs to be more efficient. Rationalizing of social
expenditures and building up the capacity to monitor the impact of these
expenditures are critical to targeting such expenditures to the poor.
Additionally, the current policy framework for the electricity and gas
sectors should be carefully reassessed to make them sustainable. Serious
governance and economic issues need to be addressed in order to improve
service delivery in these areas. The Government has made substantial
progress in the privatization program with the privatization of small and
medium-size businesses and of land and equipment in agriculture. Under the
new program, as set out in the Law and Presidential Decree on the Second
Privatization Program, smaller enterprises can be privatized by order of
the Minister of Economic Development and larger enterprises by order of
the President. Around 70 auctions of small and medium-size enterprises
have been held since the start of the program. The Government is currently
preparing for the President's consideration a list of 450 public
enterprises in the machinery, oil, chemical, and food sectors to privatize
in the course of the program, and has also announced a list of enterprises
to be privatized during the 2001-03 period. The authorities have requested
IDA involvement to ensure the integrity of the process through compliance
with international standards of transparency. The Government has also
taken measures to significantly reduce obstacles for private sector
development. The licensing regime is being reviewed, and the
introduction of modern criminal, civil and tax codes will lighten the
burden of the tax regime and will increase its objectivity. A Presidential
Decree was issued in late 2000 abolishing all internal inspection/control
departments in the ministries, except for the Internal Audit Department in
-2 -



the Ministry of Finance. A diagnostic review of the investment climate was
initiated in November 2001, with FIAS, to evaluate changes taking place
since a 1999 survey on business environment and enterprise performance.
The diagnostic study includes a review of the legal and institutional
framework for investment, comparing it with the situation in competitor
countries, evaluating impediments, and making concrete recommendations.
2. Objectives
The Government of Azerbaijan has made significant progress in achieving
economic stability and recovery during the past three years. Strong reform
momentum has been notable in the areas of macroeconomic policy, financial
sector reform and privatization On the other hand, deep structural
reforms in the areas of governance and the public sector have moved more
slowly. To improve the transparency and effectiveness of public resources
for the provision of goods and services, IDA is preparing this technical
assistance credit to provide the needed resources and expertise to the
officials to implement the required reform policies. More specifically,
the proposed IBTA II is intended to provide technical assistance to
support the policy measures to be implemented under the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC-II discussed at the Board on March 12, 2002), which
focuses on: improving transparency and accountability in public financial
management; strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing public
expenditures and monitoring their impact; improving the strategic priority
setting and transparency of public expenditures; and promoting private
sector development. In line with these objectives, the proposed Credit is
prepared with the twin goals of providing assistance in the design and
implementation of the Government's reform program, and of helping to build
up the institutional capacity and skills to carry out these programs. The
proposed Credit is divided into the following components: (i) to enhance
accountability in public financial management; (ii) to strengthen public
expenditure management capacities, including the implementation of a fully
functional, automated Treasury system; (iii) to reform social
expenditures; and (iv) to promote privatization and private sector
development. The activities under these components will help the
Government to improve the delivery of public services through reforming
institutional arrangements that they provide better incentives for service
providers to perform efficiently and effectively. These activities will
also improve the budget management process and hence the efficiency of
budgetary resources, and will increase accountability in the public sector
through better monitoring and analysis of information from beneficiaries.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group's support for the successful implementation of the reform
process in Azerbaijan is crucial. The Bank Group is well placed to respond
to Government requests for assistance by combining policy advice with
financial and technical assistance. The Bank's comparative international
experience will assist Azerbaijan in its attempt to reform the public
sector. The Bank Group has also done extensive work in most of the areas
covered by the proposed project and could benefit the Government through
its institutional knowledge in successful public sector reform programs.
It has also developed close and cordial working relationships with major
counterparts, thereby enhancing its credibility and the acceptability of
its policy advice. Over the course of the past two years, the policy
environment in Azerbaijan has changed. The success of the stabilization
program, growing foreign investor interest, and the prospects and risks of
-3 -



large-scale oil revenues have combined to strengthen the reforms. Renewed
reforms did not stem from a need to deal with a debt or related financing
crisis. The advent of the PRSP process provided an important opportunity
for the IMF and the World Bank to re-engage the dialogue with the
Government on a medium term economic development strategy with the twin
objectives of tackling poverty and strengthening governance. The
Government's I-PRSP envisages a broad-ranging program that aims to achieve
major reforms in public sector management, the business environment and
social development during the next two to three years. Important measures
have already been adopted in a number of areas, leading to the approval of
the PRGF arrangement by the IMF in July 2001. The proposed IBTA-II Credit
would support the implementation of policy measures designed to catalyze
further action in some of the most politically sensitive and technically
complex areas of the Government's program.
4. Description
The proposed project consists of five components to address the key issues
identified in Section B, above. These components comprise: (i) enhancing
accountability in public financial management services; (ii) strengthening
public expenditure management capacities; (iii) reforming social
expenditures; (iv) promoting privatization and private sector development;
and (v) financing the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to support the
implementation of this Credit. The components, and their subcomponents
are summarized below.Enhancing Accountability in Public Financial
Management ($1.01 million)This component includes: (i) providing the
Government with the means to implement the Public Procurement Law and
recommendations of the forthcoming CPAR through appropriate and effective
institutional arrangements; and (ii) assisting the Chamber of Accounts to
design and develop an appropriate professional and institutional capacity
and to maintain a legislative framework to enhance the public sector
financial management and to implement recommendations of the forthcoming
CFAA.Strengthening Public Expenditure Management Capacities ($7.12
million)The two subcomponents will assist the Government in: (i)
strengthening the appraisal capacity of the public investment program by
setting up a Public Investment Appraisal Division in the Ministry of
Economic Development.; and (ii) assisting the Government to design and
implement a fully functional, automated Treasury System, that would serve
as an effective instrument for budget execution and cash
management.Reforming Social Expenditures ($2.30 million)This component
covers the following four subcomponents: (i) reviewing and analyzing
health expenditures to strengthen the effectiveness and pro-poor targeting
of these expenditures consistent with PRSP priorities; (ii) examining
education expenditures to strengthen the effectiveness and pro-poor
targeting of these expenditures consistent with PRSP priorities; (iii)
defining an effective medium-term safety net strategy that will enhance
targeting of social assistance, will support the poorest and most
vulnerable groups, and will mitigate the social impact of new public
utility policies; (iv) building up capacity in the State Statistical
Office and Ministry of Economic Development to ensure delivery and regular
analysis of high quality household budget survey data; and (v) undertaking
significant labor conversion and staff reductions associated with
enterprise privatization and restructuring, among other things, by
providing pre-layoff assistance to workers and post layoff temporary
income support and labor redeployment services.Promoting Privatization and
Private Sector Development ($2.24 million) The activities under this
- 4 -



category would support: (i) implementing the recommendations of the
business environment study (conducted by FIAS) and providing funding for
the monitoring process to track progress made in this area; (ii) providing
financial advice and technical and legal consultants for the privatization
process of Gas and Water distribution.Project Management ($0.68
million)The Credit would also support the project implementation and would
cover the cost of project management.
1 - Enhancing Accountability in Public Fin. Mgmt.
2 - Improving Public Exp. Management Process
3 - Reforming Social Exp.
4 - Promoting Privatization & Private Sector Development
5 - Project Management (Op. Costs)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $1.00
IBRD
IDA                      $9.45
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (USAID)      $2.90
Total Project Cost       $13.35
6. Implementation
Implementation of this project will extend over four- and -one-half years
to finance technical assistance in key sectors of the economy where such
support is critically needed. Given the generally weak institutional
capacity in Azerbaijan, effective project implementation arrangements can
mitigate some of the implementation risks (see Section F). The Government
has assigned the existing Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for IBTA-I
to cover project coordination and implementation for IBTA-II. The
day-to-day project coordination and implementation responsibility lies
with the PIU whose responsibilities include monitoring the implementation
progress under the proposed Credit, as well as coordinating various
participating ministries, project beneficiaries, and procurement agencies
to ensure a consistent approach in the implementation of the project. The
PIU will also be responsible for the monitoring and control of IDA funds,
the administration of the special account, and the preparation of the
consolidated progress report and Project Completion Report.The PIU will be
under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Economic Development.
However, in view of the need for frequent inter-ministerial coordination
and decisions, the Department of Economic and Financial Credit Policy
(DEFCP) of the Cabinet of Ministers will also assist in the implementation
of the project. The PIU staff will be led by a manager who would have
overall responsibility for the project. He will be assisted by a financial
specialist with responsibility for project finance and accounting, and a
procurement specialist who would advise and assist with all procurement
procedures and monitor their implementation. The PIU will also have two
support staff. Key features of the proposed implementation arrangements
are presented below, and further details are given in Annex 6:nf All work
relating to project procurement, disbursement, financial management, and
project monitoring will be centralized in the PIU and assigned to
experienced consultants. n The current staff of the IBTA-I PIU will also
perform IBTA II-related functions as part of their normal duties. In
particular, the accountant and the disbursement office will ensure
appropriate authorization of the documents.n Administrative and executive
- 5-



authority with respect to all other aspects of project implementation
solely rest with Government personnel. This will ensure borrower's
ownership and commitment to smooth and effective project execution.n Line
ministries and agencies will appoint appropriate senior officials for
handling the implementation of technical assistance components for their
ministries. These activities would need to be coordinated with the PIU.
Only after the designated official in the beneficiary agency signs off
will requests for payment be processed by the PIU. The beneficiary
agencies include the following: (i) Ministry of Economic Development and
DEFCP (oversight and coordination of IBTA II); (ii) Ministry of Finance
(public expenditure reform; reform of audit and financial controls;
Treasury operations; (iii) Ministry of Economic Development (public
investment program; private sector development); (vi) Ministry of Health
(health expenditures reform); (vii) Ministry of Education (education
expenditures reform); (viii) Minister of Labor and Social Protection
(social assistance reform and labor redeployment); (ix) State Agency for
Procurement (public procurement reform); (x) Chamber of Accounts (external
audit reform).Financial Management and Accounting Project Financial
Management: A financial management system for the project will be
maintained within the PIU where project accounting, reporting, monitoring
and auditing arrangements will be carried out. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with the borrower's regulations, with
internationally accepted accounting principles as well as IDA's
guidelines. The Ministry of Economic Development and the DEFCP will
handle all coordination with IDA, including the preparation and submission
of withdrawal requests. In order to assist the PIU in maintaining an
appropriate financial management system acceptable to the Bank, the PIU
has already purchased a commonly used accounting software "lC" preparing
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Audits: The annual audits will be
carried out in accordance with the relevant international standards and
Bank guidelines as outlined in The World Bank Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual
(exposure draft). A short list of auditors have been provided to the IDA
and the auditors for the project has been selected and appointed.
Disbursements/Project Financial Reporting Requirements: The PIU is
already familiar with producing FMRs. During the initial period and
before the PIU gains more experience in producing FMRs, disbursements may
use traditional methods i.e., Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
reimbursements, direct payment, etc. Once the PIU has gained experience
with the financial management system (FMS) and reporting under Financial
Management Reports, the project would move to FMR-based disbursements.
Flow of Funds/Special Account: To facilitate timely implementation of
project activities, the Government will establish a Special Account. In
addition, a Project Account in local currency will be opened to facilitate
payment for project expenditures financed from counterpart funds. The
Ministry of Finance will initially deposit $50,000 in the Project Account
to cover contractual obligations, with replenishment made as this amount
is drawn down. The administration of the Special Account and Project
Account, including preparation of withdrawal applications and
replenishment of the accounts, will be the responsibility of the PIU. The
authorized allocation to be disbursed to the Special Account will not
exceed a maximum amount of 10 percent of the Credit amount. Replenishment
applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents. The minimum application size for payments directly from the
- 6 -



Credit Account for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the
Special Account authorized allocation.
7. Sustainability
The proposed IBTA-II project aims to improve public sector management.
Although it focuses on short- to medium-term priority needs, they are
essential elements that would contribute to the longer-term sustainable
growth of the economy. Project sustainability will also be enhanced
through dialogue with stakeholders and through implementation of policy
measures under SAC-II. Although the primary objectives of the proposed
project are to improve selected aspects of the functioning of the public
sector, the proposed project emphasizes sustainability which goes beyond
the narrow confines of the project itself, through the measures described
below:fn Most of the technical assistance (TA) related to public sector
reform is oriented to building up capacity, and providing training, in
critical areas such as public expenditure management, Treasury operations,
audit and financial controls - which will promote accountability and
efficiency in the long run.fn Many of the TA activities will deal with
specific actions to improve governance. For example, TA to strengthen the
capacity for public procurement and audit, the implementation of Treasury
operations and the associated legal and institutional framework would
improve the overall level of governance in the country.fn Improved
expenditure policies will be reflected in a consistent medium-term
expenditure framework, based on clear priorities, and timely information
for effective targeting and monitoring, especially for poverty.fn Enhanced
financial and fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability in public
finances will help to strengthen governance and encourage investment
activities.fn The proposed project emphasizes establishing robust systems
for project procurement and financial management.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Technical assistance projects have a mixed performance record both within
the Bank Group and in the ECA Region. Without adequate technical
assistance in place, however, essential policy and institutional reforms
cannot be implemented successfully and are unlikely to be sustainable.
International experience has shown that ownership and commitment are best
nurtured by consultation with all relevant stakeholders and with
responsibility for project design and implementation devolved to the
lowest level consistent with capacity and economies of scale. Key
country-specific lessons which have been learned and applied in the design
of the proposed project from the first Institution Building Technical
Assistance Credit (IBTA-I) for Azerbaijan, which is nearing completion,
and from other TA/investment operations in Azerbaijan, include:fn Technical
assistance operations need to be well designed and need to be kept on
track during implementation to minimize focus on purchase of computers,
without strong capacity building or institutional development actions.
The technical assistance needs have been reflected in detailed terms of
reference for the various project activities. n Successful technical
assistance not only assists in completing a set of agreed actions but also
helps to put in place sufficient capacity and a sustainable process by
which reforms can be institutionalized in different branches of the
Government. Such institution-building actions and processes are difficult
and long-term by nature, and require considerable technical assistance to
implement and sustain. Hence, the task team has hence tried to keep the
implementation period of the project to at least four-and-a half years for
- 7-



the needed absorptive capacity to be built up within Government.n
Procurement and financial management capacity within Government is quite
limited: unless it is strengthened, such poor capacity may adversely
affect project implementation and sustainability because the sequencing of
the reform process may be disrupted by the lack of availability of the
needed technical assistance when required.n Implementation arrangements
should receive careful attention, as managers in implementing line
ministries may find it difficult to manage consultants and perform the
day-to-day follow-up. The PIU needs to have access to decision-makers, the
authority to enforce compliance by line ministries, and the credibility to
bring people from different ministries together to implement the
projects.All of the above have been reflected in the project design,
which:n Focuses on the strengthening of processesn Emphasizes preparation
of consensus-based action plansn Stresses implementation and oversight of
the reform process by the borrowern Stresses the importance of effective
procurement and financial management arrangementsn Links the provision of
technical assistance as much as is feasible to meeting SAC-II
conditionality.n Has been developed with strong participation of the
Government agencies and other stakeholders
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mansour Farsad
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2963
Fax: 202-522-2751
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 31, 2002.
- 8 -



