Page  1
1
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
Avian Influenza (AI) Project 
 
Environmental Management Plan  
 
Baku, July 14, 2006 
 
E1445 
Page  2
2
Table of Contents 
 
Abbreviations 
 
Introduction and Summary 
 
I. 
Global, regional and national sector issues 
 
(a) Introduction 
 
(b) Socioeconomic Context 
 
(c) Key Issues 
 
(d) The regional dimension  
 
(e) The national dimension 
 
II. 
 Project Development Objective and Project Components 
 
III. Policy 
context 
 
(a) IDA/IBRD Safeguards Policy 
(b) Azerbaijan Legislation 
 
(c) WHO and FAO/OIE Guidelines 
 
IV. 
 Project Region 
 
V. 
Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures by Component 
 
VI. Monitoring 
 
VII. 
Institutional Arrangements and Budget 
 
VIII. 
Public Consultation Arrangements 
 
Annex 1: 
FAO/OIE AI Strategy 
Annex 2: 
WHO AI Strategy 
Annex 3: 
Project summary 
Annex 4:           Wild birds in Azerbaijan and migration map 
Annex 5:   
Biocontainment 
Level Requirements 
Annex 6: 
International Best Practice in Safety of Research Laboratories 
Annex 7 - A: 
Mitigation Plan for Carcass and Waste Material Disposal by Burial 
Annex 7 
–
B:   Mitigation Plan - Carcass Disposal by Incineration in Pits
 
Annex 8 -  A: 
Mitigation Plan for Laboratory Safety and Waste Management 
Annex 8 -  B: 
Monitoring Plan for Carcass and Waste Material Disposal by Burial 
Annex 9 -  A: 
Monitoring Plan- Disposal of Poultry by Incineration in Pits 
Annex 9 -  B
:
Monitoring Plan for Laboratory Safety and Waste Management
 Monitoring 
 
Annex 10:         Report on Dissemination and Public Consultation of EMP  
Page  3
3
ABBREVIATIONS
 
AI 
 
Avian Influenza 
 
AI PIU
 
Avian Influenza Project Implementation Unit 
 
ADCP 
 
Agricultural Development and Credit Project 
 
AZIVRS  
 
Azerbaijan Institute for Veterinary Research and Studies  
 
BSL
 
Bio-Safety Level 
 
EA  
 
 
Environmental Assessment
 
EIA 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
 
EMP
 
Environmental Management Plan 
 
FAO
 
UN Food and Agricultural Organization  
 
GPAI   
 
Global Program on Avian Influenza  
 
HPAI 
 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza  
 
IBRD
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
 
IDA
 
International Development Agency 
 
MENR
 
Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources  
 
MOA 
  Ministry 
of 
Agriculture
 
OIE
 
UN World Organization for Animal Health 
 
PCRs
 
Polymerase Chain Reaction Devices  
 
PPE
 
Personal Protection Equipment 
 
SAAC 
 
State Agency for Agricultural Credit  
 
SVS 
  State 
Veterinary 
Services 
 
TF 
 
Trust Fund 
 
WB 
 
World Bank 
 
WHO
 
World Health Organization 
Page  4
4
Introduction and Summary 
 
The World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank 
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus improve 
decision making (OP 4.01, January 1999).  The Bank favors preventive measures over mitigatory 
or compensatory measures, whenever feasible. 
 
The Azerbaijan Avian Influenza (AI) Project has been assigned World Bank environmental 
category B, since it involves moderate environmental impacts that can be managed during 
implementation of the project.  Although project activities supporting AI 
prevention, 
preparedness and planning, and response and containment are not expected to generate significant 
adverse environmental effects, they do present a moderate environmental risk from inadvertent 
spread of the AI virus and waste management.  Overall the AI prevention and response-focused 
activities are expected to have a positive environmental impact, as the investments in facilities, 
equipment, and training for veterinary and public health service staff and laboratories will 
improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and testing 
procedures by meeting international standards established by the World Organization for Animal 
Health (OIE).  This would be reinforced by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into 
protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal of animals during AI outbreaks.   
 
This environmental management plan addresses the moderate adverse environmental effects of 
the Veterinary and Human Health Components.  For the Veterinary Services component, the 
EMP addresses zoonotic disease containment  and waste management as pertain to special waste, 
emissions and materials at laboratories, and training for veterinary services workers, to include 
procedures for safe handling of AI materials; safe culling of infected and at-risk poultry and 
disposal of carcasses.  For the Human Health component, the EMP focuses on equipment, 
refurbishing and training for reference and regional diagnostic laboratories to include key 
environmental issues in zoonotic disease containment and waste management.  The EMP 
provides mitigation plans and monitoring plans to ensure appropriate attention to environmental 
issues, and tracking progress or problems in their management. 
 
I. 
Global, regional and national sector issues 
(a) Introduction 
1. 
The continuing outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), which begun in 
late 2003 in several Southeast Asian countries and have occurred more recently in Europe, have 
been disastrous to the poultry industry in the two regions and have raised serious global public 
health concerns.  As of March 2006, more than 140 million domestic poultry had either died or 
been destroyed and over 174 people had contracted the infection (of which 94 have died).  Recent 
increases in the number of known cases of avian influenza (AI) transmission have raised concerns 
over the potential emergence of a pandemic, which could have devastating effects on human 
health and livelihoods. 
2. 
At the same time, it is important to emphasize that there are many uncertainties about 
whether and when a pandemic might occur, as well as about its potential impact.  Humans are not 
very susceptible to the disease, but if infected with the Asian H5N1 strain, they can exhibit a high 
Page  5
5
case fatality rate.  The geographical spread of HPAI, the human dimension, and the potential 
enormous social and economic impact are unprecedented.  Economic losses to the Asian poultry 
sector alone are estimated to date at around $10 billion.  Despite control measures the disease 
continues to spread, causing further economic losses and threatening the livelihood of hundreds 
of millions of livestock farmers, jeopardizing smallholder entrepreneurship and commercial 
poultry production, and seriously impeding regional and international trade, and market 
opportunities.  The rural poor, who rely for a larger share of their income on poultry, have been 
particularly hard hit with income losses. 
 
3. 
It is impossible to anticipate when the next influenza pandemic may occur or how severe 
its consequences may be.  On average, three pandemics per century have been documented since 
the 16
th
 century, occurring at intervals of 10-50 years.  In the 20
th
 century, pandemics occurred in 
1918, 1957 and 1968.  The pandemic of 1918 is estimated to have killed almost 50 million people 
in eighteen months, with peak mortality rates occurring in people aged 20-45 years.  The 
pandemics of 1957 and 1968 were milder, but many countries nevertheless experienced major 
strains on health care resources.  If a major pandemic were to appear again, similar to the one in 
1918, even with modern advances in medicine, an unparalleled toll of illness and death could 
result.  Air travel might hasten the spread of a new virus, and decrease the time available for 
preparing interventi
ons.  Countries’ health care systems could be rapidly overwhelmed, 
economies strained, and social order disrupted.  Through interventions as proposed in this Project, 
and in collaboration with other national and international partners, it should be possible to 
minimize a pandemic’s consequences in Azerbaijan through advance preparation to meet the 
challenge. 
(b) Socioeconomic Context 
4. 
The recent epidemics or outbreaks of animal origin (e.g. SARS, avian influenza, Lassa 
virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, Nipah virus, West Nile virus) have demonstrated the potential 
and real global impact of zoonotic diseases on the health and well-being of the public, as well as 
the enormous humanitarian, socio-economic, and trade damage that this group of diseases can 
cause to both developed and developing countries.  They have also underscored the important 
role of official veterinary and public health services in disease prevention and control, as well as 
the importance of strengthening the capacity of these services in compliance with the World 
Health Organization (WHO) and the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) international 
standards (e.g. the local, regional, and global quarantine powers under the International Health 
Regulations; and the international standards, guidelines and recommendations under the OIE 
Terrestrial Animal Health Code).  The epidemics have also demonstrated that there is an urgent 
need for a global response to improve the local and regional preparedness and rapid response 
capacity to the threat from zoonotic disease.  
5. 
Influenza is a zoonotic disease (animal to human transmission) of international 
importance because of the ability of the virus that causes the disease to mutate for a potential 
wide-scale human-to-human transmission.  Outbreaks of influenza in humans occur annually, as a 
result of antigenic drift in the Influence A virus with a severity which varies from year to year, 
but is typically moderate to mild.  Nonetheless, these outbreaks occur in all countries and exert an 
impact primarily through morbidity and reduced economic productivity because of illness.  In 
contrast, severe influenza pandemics occur infrequently, as a result of antigenic shift, but have 
Page  6
6
been unprecedented in the number of infections and deaths caused over a short time-period.  The 
worst such event in the 20
th
 Century, the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918-19, had the highest 
mortality rate among healthy young people.  Less severe pandemics occurred in 1957-58 and 
1968-69, but still had high attack rates, high case fatality, and major impact on economic activity.  
The severity of these influenza pandemics resulted from infection with a sub-type of influenza 
virus to which humans had not been previously exposed and so had no immunity.  Such a new 
sub-type of influenza (known as H5N1) is currently causing large outbreaks in birds and domestic 
poultry in East and Central Asia and Europe, creating widespread concern that the risk of a new 
and potentially severe human pandemic is high
1
.
6. 
Addressing economic and social impacts must be an integral part of a comprehensive 
response
.
A
pandemic would have devastating economic and social consequences, including 
large-scale loss of livelihoods as well as lives.  The potential economic costs of avian influenza 
are apparent in countries such as Vietnam, where impacts are already evident on the poultry 
sector, associated input and distribution channels, and the rural poor who rely on poultry for a 
larger share of their income.  Even if a pandemic does not occur, there could be important socio-
economic effects resulting from the response to the perceived risks.  Countries confront choices 
in balancing preparation versus action since both imply economic costs.  At least three types of 
economic costs or impacts should be considered under a human pandemic scenario: (i) effects of 
sickness and mortality on potential output; (ii) private preventive responses to an epidemic; and 
(iii) public sector responses.   
 
(c) Key Issues 
 
7. 
A coordinated global response should involve three types of strategic activities: (i) 
preventing the occurrence and spread of the disease in domesticated animals, thus lowering the 
virus load in the environment, (ii) preventing and/or mitigating the effects of an outbreak in 
humans, and (iii) in the event of a pandemic, helping affected populations cope with its effects.  
There is a need to formulate a global response based on a common vision for undertaking these 
three sets of activities.  Such a vision should entail immediate measures while ensuring that these 
measures fit within a coherent longer-term strategy with respect to both animal and human health 
considerations.  Key issues that have been identified include: 
 
·
Prevention and control of avian influenza is multi-sectoral in nature.  
It involves many 
players, including those in the areas of health, agriculture, environment, economics, finance, 
and planning among others.  At the country level, in particular, an integrated, multi and inter-
sectoral response is needed based on shared objectives.  Responses must address both the 
animal health and human health dimensions and also appropriate social measures 
(quarantines, transport restrictions, mass communication strategies). 
 
1
Antigenic drift refers to a change in surface proteins of a given strain of influence virus in response to antibodies in 
human hosts who have been exposed to it. It occurs continually in both type A and B influenza strains, thus the reason 
to re-engineer the influenza vaccine on a regular basis to prevent seasonal outbreaks or epidemics. Antigenic shift 
refers to the reassortment of the animal influenza strain with the circulating human strain in the process of moving from 
an animal to humans. This antigenic shift is more of a concern since when it occurs, it results in pandemics due to 
generalized susceptibility to infection in humans. 
Page  7
7
·
The risk of a human pandemic is real.  
The H5N1 strain currently affecting several Asian 
countries has proven highly fatal to humans.  The risk that a pandemic virus will emerge 
depends on opportunities for human exposure and infection, which will persist as long as the 
H5N1 virus continues to circulate in animals.  With the present situation, the potential of the 
HPAI virus to become transmissible among humans needs to be a serious concern.  If the 
virus adapts itself to human-to-human transmission, lives may be threatened on a large scale.
 
·
Avian Influenza virus is constantly evolving with unpredictable results
.
The HPAI viruses 
are of particular concern because they undergo constant genetic change that can have 
unpredictable results.  The constant and rapid evolution of the virus necessitates a global 
approach to controlling the disease. 
 
·
Market conditions have caused HPAI to spread rapidly.  
The conditions for the emergence 
and local spread of HPAI have been exacerbated by the intensification and concentration of 
livestock production in areas of high-density human populations.  The danger of international 
spread of HPAI has increased by the dynamics of regional and international trade and the 
movement of people.  A global approach to avian influenza, therefore, will have relevance to 
strategic control of other livestock diseases, including zoonoses. Nevertheless, country 
strategies developed and owned by the governments facing the threat of avian influenza 
should be the foundation of a global response.    
 
·
The geographic coverage of a response should be determined by both immediate and 
anticipated needs.  
 Asia is today the most affected region, but the disease is currently 
spreading to other areas of the world at an alarming rate and recent scientific evidence 
indicates that wild birds play a role in the spread of the virus from one country or region to 
another.  The response should, therefore, combine control measures in countries where the 
virus has been already detected, with prevention measures in countries at risks (countries 
neighboring infected countries and/or in migratory bird fly way paths).  A minimum level of 
preparedness is essential in all countries.   
 
·
An appropriate balance between short and long-term actions needs to be taken.  
Immediate 
action is needed in a number of areas.  The immediate to short-term objective is to reduce the 
risk to humans by preventing further spread of HPAI in those countries that are currently 
infected.  The long-term vision of the strategy is to minimize the global threat and risk of 
HPAI in domestic poultry and humans, through progressive control and eradication of HPAI.  
Achieving this goal will diminish the global threat of a human pandemic, stabilize poultry 
production, enhance a robust regional and international trade in poultry and poultry products, 
increase human and food safety, and improve the livelihoods of the rural poor.    
 
·
Global and regional aspects of the response need to be addressed and coordinated
.
Actions 
to secure borders and control international trade/travel in the event of a pandemic, as well as 
measures to limit the effects of disease transmission by migratory birds, are trans-boundary 
issues requiring regional and/or international coordination.
 
Global and regional efforts 
should build on existing mechanisms such as the joint OIE/World Bank initiative for the 
Prevention and Control of Global Emerging and Re-emerging Diseases of Animal Origin, and 
the joint Global Framework for Progressive Control of Transboundary Animal Diseases (GF-
Page  8
8
TADs), a joint FAO/OIE initiative and regional organizations such as the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.
 
8. 
The FAO/OIE’s Global Strategy.  
The long-term vision of the strategy prepared by 
FAO and OIE in collaboration with WHO is to minimize the global threat and risk of HPAI in 
humans and domestic poultry, through progressive control and eradication of HPAI, particularly 
that caused by H5N1 virus, from terrestrial domestic poultry.  The global strategy will be 
implemented over three time frames: immediate to short (1-3 years), short to medium (4-6 years) 
and medium to long-term (7-10 years).  During this period the spread of HPAI, mainly of the 
H5N1 strain, will have been progressively controlled in domestic poultry of all infected countries, 
and prevented from affecting those countries not currently infected, but at high risk.  The strategy 
originally prepared to control HPAI in Asia is being revised by FAO and OIE to take into account 
the current spread on the disease outside Asia.  The strategy will be complemented by more 
detailed country specific HPAI control plans.  FAO/OIE have also issued specific 
recommendations for avian influenza and OIE has recently issued recommendations for each 
region, in addition to its standards and guidelines provided for the prevention and control of 
HPAI in animals. 
9. The 
Recommended Strategic Action
 plan prepared by 
WHO
 for Responding to the 
Avian Influenza Pandemic Threat lays out activities for individual countries, the international 
community, and WHO to prepare for a pandemic and mitigate its impact.  The objectives of the 
plan correspond to the opportunities and capacities to intervene and are structured in three phases: 
(i) pre-pandemic 
–
supporting the FAO/OIE’s control strategy;  increasing collaboration between 
animal and health services; strengthening EWS, (ii) emergence of a pandemic – containing or 
delaying spread at the source - and (iii) pandemic declared and spreading internationally – 
reducing morbidity, mortality and social disruption; conducting research to guide response 
measures.  WHO has also prepared a global plan and guidelines for pandemic preparedness and is 
in the process of developing a model country plan that will allow countries to assess their state of 
preparedness and identify priority needs.     
 
10. 
The Bank 
has developed a global facility through a multi-country adjustable program 
loan (MAP).  In parallel, the Bank is discussing with the EU, WHO and FAO/OIE, and bilateral 
donors the establishment of a multi-donor trust fund (TF) that primarily supports country level 
activities in conjunction with a smaller and complementary role at the regional and global level.   
 
(d) The regional dimension  
 
11. 
Cases of the H5N1 strain of avian flu have already occurred in more than 30 countries in 
the Middle East, Asia, Europe and Africa, including most recently in Azerbaijan, Austria, 
Croatia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Romania, and Turkey.  There are also possible cases in 
Macedonia and Slovenia.  The Russian outbreak of HPAI H5N1 has to date affected six 
administrative regions, beginning in the Ural Mountains and moving west to within 200 km of 
Moscow.  With AI reported in one country in the Balkan Peninsula (Croatia), other countries in 
the Balkan peninsula and the Caucasus are at risk due to their proximity to two main flyways, the 
East Africa-West Asia Flyway and the Central Asia Flyway.  Both flyways cross areas in North-
eastern Europe, where avian influenza in wild and domestic fowl has been diagnosed.  From a 
geographical point of view, the Caucuses and Central Asia represent a vast area in which 
Page  9
9
introduction of AI is likely to occur, and where the sensitivity of the system for early detection of 
HPAI is low.  All EU countries have plans to fight a possible avian flu pandemic.  All countries 
in ECA have or are developing similar plans.   
 
(e) The national dimension 
 
12. 
There have been widespread reports of massive die off of wild birds along the 
Caspian Sea shore in Azerbaijan. On February 10, 2006, official tests carried out by the World 
Animal Health Organization (OIE) reference laboratory in Weybridge (UK) on some wild bird 
samples resulted positive for the H5N1 strain of avian flu. The veterinary department reported to 
the OIE that the disease has been confirmed in domestic poultry on February 24, 2006. In 
addition, several animal and human avian flu cases affected areas of eastern Turkey very close to 
the border with Azerbaijan and other countries in the Caucasus.  Since the large majority of 
domestic birds (around 78 percent) in Azerbaijan are kept in household backyards in close contact 
with humans, the risk of spreading from domestic birds to humans is high, even though no human 
cases have officially been reported. 
 
II. 
 Project Development Objective and Project Components 
 
13. 
The overall objective of the Project is to minimize the threat posed to humans by 
HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry to prepare for the control and response to 
an influenza pandemic and other infectious diseases.  To achieve this objective, the project will 
support (i) prevention, (ii) preparedness and planning, and (iii) response and containment. 
Achieving these goals will contribute to diminishing the burden of disease and loss of 
productivity, limiting the regional spread of HPAI, and enhancing economic and social prospects 
at the national, regional, and global levels.   
 
14. 
The Project consists of the following four components:  
 
(i) Veterinary 
Services 
(ii) Human 
Health 
(iii) 
Public Awareness  
(iv) 
Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
III. Policy 
context
 
(a) IDA/IBRD Safeguards Policy 
15. 
  The World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for 
Bank financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus 
improve decision making (OP 4.01, January 1999).  EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and 
type of analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the proposed 
project. EA evaluates a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of 
influence; examines project alternatives; identifies ways of improving project selection, siting, 
Page  10
10
planning, design, and implementation by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for 
adverse environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts; and includes the process of 
mitigating and managing adverse environmental impacts throughout project implementation. The 
Bank favors preventive measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures, whenever feasible. 
 
16. 
EA takes into account the natural environment (air, water, and land); human health 
and safety; social aspects (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property); 
and transboundary and global environmental aspects. It also takes into account the variations in 
project and country conditions; the findings of country environmental studies; national 
environmental action plans; the country's overall policy framework, national legislation, and 
institutional capabilities related to the environment and social aspects; and obligations of the 
country, pertaining to project activities, under relevant international environmental treaties and 
agreements. The Bank does not finance project activities that would contravene such country 
obligations, as identified during the EA.  
 
17. 
The Azerbaijan Avian Influenza (AI) Project has been assigned World Bank 
environmental category B, since it involves moderate environmental impacts that can be managed 
during implementation of the project.  The EA process for the AI project is addressed through this 
EMP.  Key considerations to be taken into account during the EA process include:  
 
·
Generic initial screening to determine appropriate environmental assessment;  
·
Compliance with existing environmental regulations in Azerbaijan; 
·
Linkages with social assessment; 
·
Analysis of alternatives;  
·
Public participation and consultation with affected people and organizations; and 
·
Disclosure of information. 
 
(b) Azerbaijan Environmental Legislation and procedures 
 
18. 
Environmental legislation
.
Activities carried out under the project will conform to 
current laws in Azerbaijan and sound environmental principles. Environmental protection in 
Azerbaijan is governed by the Law on Environment Protection (1999). The Law establishes the 
main environmental protection principles, and the rights and obligations of the State, public 
associations and citizens regarding environmental protection.  It establishes the requirements for 
the preparation of environmental impact assessments, environmental quality standards, 
requirements for permitting the activities that affect the environment, prevention and reduction of 
environmental pollution, environmental monitoring and control, the role of the public and 
sanctions imposed on law violators.  Other laws governing specific issues such as sanitary-
epidemiological welfare, land reform, energy, health, water, forests, cadastre and land use, 
industrial and domestic wastes, fauna, fish breeding, ecological safety, water supply and 
wastewater, atmospheric protection and specially protected areas have been adopted since 1992.  
In addition, a large number (some 75+) of Decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers have been issued 
to help interpret the body of environmental legislation and related Presidential Degrees and 
Orders. 
 
Page  11
11
19. 
According to Article 42 of the Law on Environmental protection, the Ministry of 
Environment (MOE) is the competent authority for reviewing the EIA request and documentation 
prepared by independent experts hired by the project developer prior to initiation of a new 
investment project.  Other key laws forming the legal basis for EIA are the Law on Ecological 
Safety (1999) and the Provision on the Process of Environmental Impact Assessment in 
Azerbaijan (1996).  This EMP will be submitted to the head office of the MOE in place of an EIA 
application for the AI project.  In the process of reviewing the EIA application the MOE 
evaluates the following criteria:   
 
·
Whether the proposed project envisions new technologies; 
·
The volumes and complexity of the proposed processes or technologies; 
·
The expected environmental consequences; 
·
Whether the proposed project would create significant changes for the local population; 
and  
·
Public response to the proposal. 
 
20. 
Veterinary and emergency regulations
.
The relevant legislative and policy documents 
governing veterinary services and AI response include:  
 
·
Law of the Azerbaijan Republic on Veterinary Service;  
·
Law of the Azerbaijan Republic on Emergency Situations;  
·
2006
Annual Work Plan of the State Veterinary Agency under the Ministry of Agriculture;  
·
Law of the Azerbaijan Republic on Sanitary Epidemiological Health  
·
Joint Action Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health and Ministry of 
Internal Affairs to sustain epidemiological and epizootological stability in the Azerbaijan 
Republic for 2005-2008; 
·
Joint Action Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health and Ministry of 
Ecology and Natural Resources aimed at preventing of the highly pathogenic Avian 
Influenza in Azerbaijan Republic;  
·
Minutes of the Cabinet of Ministers meeting regarding measures aimed at preventing the 
spread of the highly pathogenic Avian Influenza to the Azerbaijan Republic; 
·
Action Plan for Prevention and Containment of HPAI adopted by the State Commission 
on
March 04, 2006  
 
21. 
 In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers developed a draft resolution with respect to the 
“List of Especially Dangerous Animal Diseases Prevented, Diagnosed and Liquidated in the 
Veterinary Sector through the State Budget Funding” prepared by the State Veterinary Agency 
under the Ministry of Agriculture in accordance with the Law on Veterinary Service, Articles 14 
and 21, which resolution also includes Avian Influenza. 
 
22. 
The Law on Veterinary Service, Articles 14 and 24, provide for registration of Avian 
Influenza and veterinary and sanitary measures taken in areas of incidence, including quarantine, 
monitoring relocation of birds, vaccination, compulsory culling of birds and disposal of bodies, 
and sanitary works and disinfection. 
 
Page  12
12
23. 
Article 24 of the Law on Veterinary Service also provides for compensation for 
damages to owners of animals. A regulation and mechanism are to be designed for compensatory 
payments. 
 
24. 
In emergencies and extraordinary situations, the special quarantine police force of the 
Ministry of Internal Affairs and resources of the Ministry of Emergency Situations will be used 
when implementing anti-epizootological measures in infection zones. 
 
25. 
Construction standards and regulations. 
In Azerbaijan, engineering survey, design 
and construction standards and regulations are governed by the State Construction Committee. 
Rules for conducting supervision and control procedures by the State Construction Committee 
were approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2003. Subject to the State Construction Committee 
regulations, all construction operations are to be carried out with due regard to the environmental 
requirements. Following the existing construction rules, construction or renovation works are to 
be carried out on the basis of the approved project (design) documents only. State Construction 
Committee issue special licenses to conduct engineering survey and design operations (no license 
is required for construction operations).  
 
(c) WHO and FAO/OIE Guidelines 
 
26. 
The strategies for AI containment and response by the FAO/OIE and WHO are 
reviewed briefly in the section on global sectoral issues above. More information on these 
guidelines is presented in Annexes 1 and 2 below.   
 
IV. 
 Project Region 
 
27. 
The project will operate throughout Azerbaijan, as it is fully possible that AI will 
appear in wild birds and domestic poultry in all areas of the country.  Initial areas of concern are 
regions that host large populations of migratory waterfowl. (Annex  4) 
 
V. 
Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures by Component 
 
28. 
Activities under AI projects are not expected to generate significant adverse 
environmental effects as they are focused largely on public sector capacity building and improved 
readiness for dealing with outbreaks of avian influenza in domestic poultry and a potential human 
pandemic.  These prevention-focused activities are expected to have a positive environmental 
impact as the Project's investments in facilities, equipment, and training for veterinary and public 
health services and laboratories will improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian 
influenza handling and testing procedures.  This would be reinforced by the mainstreaming of 
environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal of animals 
during AI outbreaks.  In addition, waste generated in upgraded laboratory facilities will be 
managed using existing national guidelines that are consistent with international good practice. 
 
29. 
 The main areas of environmental risk from project activities are the inadvertent spread of 
the AI virus during culling, transport and disposal of carcasses, animal waste, litter, and used 
protective gear; contamination of surface and groundwater from use of disinfectants; and 
Page  13
13
laboratory 
biocontainment
 and waste management.  In addition, minor environmental 
disturbances may occur during renovation of laboratories and hospitals.  The project 
environmental mitigation plan is attached as Annex 6. 
 
(i) 
Veterinary Services
:
Equipment, refurbishing and training for diagnostic 
laboratories
to include key environmental issues in zoonotic disease 
containment  and waste management as pertain to special waste, emissions 
and materials; training for veterinary services and poultry sector workers
to 
include procedures for safe handling of AI materials; safe culling of infected 
and at-risk poultry and disposal of carcasses.  Formal compensation 
for 
culled animals should target owners/primary beneficiaries (e.g., specifically 
including women where they are the primary backyard producers).  
 
(ii) 
Human Health:
 
Equipment, refurbishing and training for diagnostic 
laboratories and hospitals
to include key environmental issues in zoonotic 
disease containment  and waste management 
 
(iii) 
Public Awareness
:
No environmental issues, but an important component 
for design and delivery of communications tools for good hygiene, safe 
culling and disposal of animal carcasses, animal waste management. 
 
(iv) 
Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation
:
No 
environmental issues; implementation of the EMP will be monitored through 
this component. 
 
A
more detailed project description is available in Annex 3 
 
30. 
Mitigation Measures for Veterinary Services Component
.
This component will support 
national prevention and control strategies in the short and medium term based on the assessments 
of the avian influenza preparedness status of the capacity of National Veterinary Services to cope 
with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) epidemic and the vulnerability of the livestock 
sector to new emerging infectious diseases.  This component will support the following four areas 
of activity: (i) enhancing HPAI prevention and preparedness capability; (ii) strengthening of 
Veterinary Services, disease surveillance, diagnostic capacity and applied research for HPAI and 
other zoonoses; (iii) Strengthening HPAI control programs and outbreak containment plans as 
well as capacities to implement those plans; and (iv) improving bio-security in poultry production 
and trade. 
 
31. 
Disposal of infected materials.
In Azerbaijan, the existing animal carcass disposal 
method is digging of burial pits and use of quicklime to prevent earthworms bringing 
contaminated material to the surface after pit closure. This method is accepted in other countries 
(Australia, Canada) with due attention to factors such as the amount of material for disposal, 
location of the burial site, proximity to water catchment areas, soil characteristics, etc.  Other 
options for disposal include cremation, incineration, pit burning, rendering and composting.  
Properly sited and constructed burial pits are the recommended disposal option in Azerbaijan as 
this is the locally preferred method, incineration facilities are very limited in capacity, and due to 
Page  14
14
the increased risk of spreading the virus by transporting carcasses and litter to remote disposal 
facilities.  Of particular concern however is the risk to groundwater from poorly sited pits. The 
Project aims to address the risks of inadvertent spreading of the virus during disposal of carcasses 
through (i) training of veterinary services staff in proper handling of potentially infected 
materials; (ii) training for farmers and commercial poultry workers on proper burial pit 
construction and operation;  (iii) provision of PPEs and other supplies; (iv) ensuring guidance is 
provided from the Ministry of Environment regarding siting of burial pits to avoid groundwater 
contamination. 
 
32. 
Use of disinfectants
.
Contamination to surface and groundwater from use of disinfectants 
necessary for sanitization of infected premises will be mitigated by (i) promoting use of least 
toxic appropriate disinfectants (soaps and detergents), and (ii) providing training to veterinary 
services personnel and poultry growers on measures to limit use of toxic disinfectants and prevent 
untreated drainage or runoff into surface or groundwater systems. 
 
Laboratories
.
Depending on the final allocation of funds by the Government and other donors, the 
project may finance purchase of one or more polymerase chain reaction devices (PCRs) for 
analysis of tissue samples to detect H5N1 virus.  Operation of PCRs involves manipulation of the 
virus, and requires that the laboratory function at 
biocontainment
 level 3 (BSL-3), which is 
suitable for work with infectious agents that may cause serious or potentially lethal diseases as a 
result of exposure by the inhalation route.  The two risk periods are handling and especially 
necropsy of dead birds and culture and multiplication of the virus in eggs. The risks are 
minimized by 1) handling carcasses and samples in Category 3 biosafety cabinets and 2) avoiding 
if possible culture of the virus.  The Bank has recommended to minimize culture and will only 
support culture if the virus is handled in Cat 3 cabinets when there is a chance of aerolisation. A 
risk assessment should be carried out and this should be part of the Health and safety training 
package.  Currently one PCR is in operation in Azerbaijan at the Republican Veterinary 
Laboratory in Baku under BSL-2 conditions, which is not recommended from a 
biocontainment
 
hazard management perspective.  Prior to purchase and delivery of the PCRs, the laboratory(ies) 
will be provided with BSL-3 cabinets to minimize the risks involved in handling live virus. These 
laboratories will also receive operational reviews and training for staff to ensure their ability to 
function at BSL-3.  .  Guidance on specific requirements for BSL-2, -3, and -4 is attached at 
Annex 5.   
 
33. 
The project will address laboratory waste management by basing training and upgrades to 
laboratory infrastructure and equipment on guidelines such as “International Best Practice in 
Safety of Research Laboratories” developed by the US National Institutes of Health.  The 
guidelines are attached below as Annex 5. 
 
34. 
Minor construction associated with rehabilitation of laboratories will be carried out in 
accordance with Azeri regulations and practice regarding construction permitting, environmental, 
health and safety permits. 
 
35. 
Mitigation Measures for Human Health Component.
This component will address short 
and medium terms needs with respect to core public health functions.  The Project will help to 
operationalize some elements that are contemplated as part of the GPAI, expanding and 
intensifying the responses rapidly.  As it is unlikely that the global spread of a pandemic influenza 
Page  15
15
virus could be prevented once it emerges, the emphasis is on reducing its impact.  Several tools 
will help achieve this aim:  (i) year-round surveillance; (ii) effective and accurate methods of 
diagnosis; (iii) planning for social distancing interventions; and (vi) strengthened medical 
services.  The interventions supported under the Project will be based on Azerbaijan’s 
epidemiological and programmatic needs, and well-assessed options for meeting them.  The 
interventions will be grouped in two sub-components: (a) Enhancing Public Health Program 
Planning and Coordination, and (b) Strengthening of National Public Health Surveillance 
Systems.  The component will provide equipment upgrades to medical laboratories..  Laboratory 
improvements financed under the project will include training on safety and waste management in 
accordance with the guidelines at Annex 5. 
 
36. 
The project would finance also creation of low pressure units in hospitals. This would be 
carried out in accordance with Azeri regulation and practice regarding construction permitting, 
environmental, health and safety permits.   
 
VI. Monitoring 
 
37. 
The environmental monitoring and evaluation guidelines for project were developed to 
monitor environmental performance and identify any implementation problems so that these can 
be addressed promptly.  These guidelines provide clear and functional roles and responsibilities, 
and provide monitoring indicators in order to measure the success of the mitigation measures.  
The monitoring plan is attached at Annex 8 A. 
 
38. 
The PIU within the SAAC under the Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for 
overall project implementation. The PIU and the project will be supervised by the World Bank 
task team. The PIU will hire a consultant with an environmental background who  will be 
responsible for overall monitoring of the implementation of mitigation measures for the AI 
project.  The incumbent will also serve as the environmental specialist for the ADCP-2, which is 
also managed by SAAC. S/he will provide periodic environmental monitoring reports to the PIU 
director and MENR  and will notify (through the PIU management)  the relevant authorities in the 
event of problems or issues connected with the mitigation measures.  Monitoring of the EMP 
implementation will form a part of the overall project monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
VII. 
Institutional Arrangements and Budget 
 
39. 
The AI PIU is responsible for ensuring adequate budget and procurement of goods, works 
and services for implementation of the EMP mitigation and monitoring measures, and for 
supervision.  The AI PIU is also responsible for full coordination with the Veterinary Service, 
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Emergency Situations, and Cabinet of 
Ministers on matters connected with implementation of the EMP.  
 
40. 
Budget for implementation and monitoring of the EMP is provided under Component 4, 
Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation. 
 
Page  16
16
VIII. 
Public Consultation Arrangements 
 
41. 
The  environmental aspects of the project were discussed with the officials of the State 
Veterinary Service, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources. The draft 
EMP has been publicly disseminated in Azeri by the SAAC through the MENR and MOA  
announcing availability of the document in local press and on the SAAC an websites, and by 
making paper copies available in the MENR
’s Public Information Center (Aarhus Center).  
42. 
A public consultation on the draft EMP was held on May 31, 2006. A summary of 
discussion at this round table is provided in Annex 10.   The draft EMP has been  revised after the 
meeting to take into account inputs from the consultation, as appropriate.  The final version of the 
EMP will be made publicly available in Azerbaijan, provided to the World Bank, and used by the 
AI PIU in the implementation of the project. 
 
Annex 1: 
FAO/OIE AI Strategy 
Annex 2: 
WHO AI Strategy 
Annex 3: 
Project description 
Annex 4:   
Wild birds migration map 
Annex 5:            
Biocontainment
 Level Requirements 
Annex 6: 
International Best Practice in Safety of Research Laboratories 
Annex 7 - A: 
Mitigation Plan for Carcass and Waste Material Disposal by Burial 
Annex 7 
–
B:   Mitigation Plan - Carcass Disposal by Incineration in Pits
 
Annex 8 -  A: 
Mitigation Plan for Laboratory Safety and Waste Management 
Annex 8 -  B: 
Monitoring Plan for Carcass and Waste Material Disposal by Burial 
Annex 9 -  A: 
Monitoring Plan- Disposal of Poultry by Incineration in Pits 
Annex 9 -  B
:
Monitoring Plan for Laboratory Safety and Waste Management
 Monitoring 
 
Annex 10:         Report on Dissemination and Public Consultation of EMP  
Page  17
17
Annex 1 
 
Summary of the FAO and the OIE Global Strategy for the Progressive Control  
of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) 
 
1. 
Vision and goal.  
The long-term vision of the strategy is to minimize the global threat and risk 
of HPAI in humans and domestic poultry, through progressive control and eradication of HPAI, 
particularly that caused by H5N1 virus strain, from terrestrial domestic poultry in Asia.  Achieving this 
goal will diminish the global threat of a pandemic, stabilize poultry production, enhance a robust 
regional and international trade in poultry and poultry products, increase human and food safety, and 
improve the livelihoods of the rural poor. 
 
2. 
A
phased approach
.
The global strategy will be implemented over three time frames:  
immediate to short (1-3 years), short to medium (4-6 years) and medium to long term (7-10 years).  
During this period the spread of HPAI, mainly of the H5N1 strain, will have been progressively 
controlled in domestic poultry of all infected countries of Asia, and prevented from affecting those 
Asian countries not currently infected, but at high risk. 
 
3. 
The immediate to short-term objective is to reduce the risk to humans by preventing further 
spread of HPAI in those countries that are currently infected by H5N1. 
 
4. 
Over the medium to long-term (7-10 years), a more focused approach to HPAI will be mounted 
to progressively eradicate the disease from the remaining compartments of infected domestic terrestrial 
poultry in the region.  The medium-to-long term strategy will consider all control measures, including 
vaccination, zoning and compartmentalization as defined in the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code.  
For the long-term success of this strategy, restructuring of the poultry sectors in the region will need to 
be seriously considered.   
 
5. 
To prevent the threat of HPAI from spreading to avian influenza-free countries, the long-term 
strategy supports the development of active surveillance programs and emergency preparedness plans 
for non-infected, at risk countries.  The application of OIE standards relating to the international trade 
of poultry and poultry products will further assist in preventing the spread of HPAI virus across 
continents. 
 
6. 
Capacity building
.
Inadequate capacity in many countries is the principal limiting factor for 
effectively and quickly stamping out and controlling infectious diseases.  Thus, the strategy suggests 
building a strong and sustainable human and physical resource capacity in the countries, to respond in a 
more effective and timely manner in detecting and stamping out not only HPAI outbreaks, but also 
other newly-emerging infectious zoonotic and trans-boundary animal diseases.  Capacity building will 
be wide ranging and include all aspects of disease control as well as policy development and socio-
economic impact analysis. 
 
7. 
Strategic research.  
The global strategy recognizes that the dynamics of the current rapid 
spread and persistence of HPAI remain unclear.  Therefore, the strategy will facilitate strategic research 
to investigate the epidemiology of avian influenza, evaluate the efficacy of vaccines in domestic poultry 
Page  18
18
to reduce the virus shedding in domestic fowl including duck reservoirs, and work in close 
collaboration with regional and international advanced research institutions to promote the development 
of improved vaccines and rapid diagnostic tests.  Risk analysis of various poultry production systems 
and along marketing chains will be carried out to better target effective disease control. 
 
8. 
Implementation.  
Implementation will be at the national, regional and international levels.  At 
the national level, well-defined country specific projects will be formulated, which will be underpinned 
by the formation of sub-regional HPAI support units.  Through these units, sub-regional disease 
diagnosis and surveillance and socio-economic and policy analysis networks will be established.  These 
sub-regional networks will provide the lead in the development of harmonized technical standards and 
regional policies related to the management of live animal movement, compensation plans, capacity 
building, disease reporting requirements and long term planning to restructure poultry sectors. 
 
9. 
At the international level, coordination of the national programs and sub-regional networks will 
be under the umbrella of GF-TADs (global framework for the control of trans-boundary animal 
diseases), a joint FAO/OIE initiative.  The international coordination will provide technical 
backstopping to the sub-regional networks and national programs, promote international cooperation, 
and mobilize and coordinate resources for HPAI control. 
 
10. 
Partners.  
The main partners in implementation of the strategy will be infected and non-
infected at-risk countries, and regional organizations, all of which are committed to controlling trans-
boundary animal and zoonotic diseases.  Given the zoonotic nature of the HPAI, and the complex 
interface between farming systems, livestock trade, food safety and public health, a strong international 
partnership among FAO, OIE and WHO will be continued.  A number of other partners will be 
involved, important among these would be the private sector, NGOs, and regional national agriculture 
extensions systems (NARES). 
 
11. 
Resources.  
The implementation of the strategy will require funding to support the national, 
regional and international HPAI control programs as outlined above. 
 
Framework for Implementation 
 
12. 
A Framework for Implementation has been developed by FAO/OIE, promoting national, 
regional, and international initiatives.  It includes the following: 
 
National initiatives:
 
·
Development of a National Strategy for each country specific to its own conditions.  It would 
address farming systems, presence/absence of water fowl, presence of human cases or not, trade 
orientation, implementation capacity, and wildlife migration patterns;  
·
Preparation of contingency and emergency preparedness plans;  
·
Development of economic impact and policy frameworks;  
·
Prevention of avian influenza to non-infected at-risk countries through awareness, reporting, and 
early detection; and effective control regimes 
·
Improvement in epidemiological information on source of infection and transmission dynamics in 
farming system and marketplaces. 
Page  19
19
 
Regional initiatives
:
·
Standardization of diagnosis and reporting techniques among countries;  
·
Sharing of disease information between countries;  
·
Development of a regulatory framework for management of animal movements; and 
·
Promotion of adherence to OIE guidelines to facilitate regional trade. 
 
Global initiatives
:
·
Strengthening of partnerships (FAO, OIE, WHO, UNDP, donors); 
·
Support for global networks (OIE Global Service Center supported by WB/DGF and donors); 
·
Support for sub-regional networks -- OIE/FAO epidemiology collaborating centers and Avian 
Influenza Network (OFFLU);  
·
Further development of control strategies for trans-boundary animal diseases (utilizing the GF-
TADs mechanism); 
·
Development of a Global Early Warning System (FOA/OIE/WHO); 
·
Coordination of research on improved tools for avian influenza control; 
·
Provision of global vision for avian influenza control; and 
·
Mobilization of resources through donor liaison and advocacy.
 
Page  20
20
Annex 2  
Summary of the World Health Organization (WHO) Strategy 
 
1.
 
The strategic plan lays out activities for individual countries, the international community and 
WHO to prepare for a pandemic and mitigate its impact.  The objectives of the plan correspond to the 
opportunities to intervene and are structure in the following three phases: 
 
Phase - Pre-Pandemic: 
 
(i)
 Reduce opportunities for human infection.
 
An immediate priority is to halt spread in poultry 
to reduce human exposure to the virus.  More intensive collaboration is needed between the animal and 
health sectors.  Communication activities targeting stakeholders, particularly rural poultry holders, 
should be strengthened.  Workers carrying out the culling of poultry must be protected against infection 
by clothing and equipment.  
 
(ii) 
Strengthen the early warning system.
 
To assess risks to public health and guide protective 
measures, information is needed on the extent of influenza infection in animals and humans and on 
circulating viruses.  National surveillance systems must be improved urgently in potentially affected 
countries.  When outbreaks in animals occur, active human case detection should be pursued by a 
coordinated animal-human health team.  
 
Phase - Emergence of a Pandemic: 
 
(iii)
 
Contain or delay spread at the source.
 
Aggressive containment measures such as isolation 
and prophylactic use of antiviral drugs may slow pandemic spread and allow time for response 
measures.  An international stockpile of antiviral drugs for an emergency response should be 
established, starting with a stockpile for targeted early use.   
 
Phase 
–
Pandemic Declared and Spreading Internationally: 
 
(iv) 
Reduce morbidity, mortality, and social disruption
.
Although mass vaccination is the 
preferred intervention, serious issues related to the time lag between emergence of the virus and vaccine 
production as well as production capacity constraints must be addressed.  Anti-viral supply and 
production capacity are also limited.  Therefore, the main responses in the immediate term should be 
classic “social distancing measures” such as quarantine, bans on mass gatherings, and travel 
restrictions, backed up by a well-designed communication strategy.  For the longer term, options with 
industry to improve antiviral and vaccine capacity need to be explored.   
 
(v) 
Conduct research during pandemic
.
Research is needed for policy development and 
adjustments for current and future epidemics.  The main elements include: assessing the epidemiologic 
characteristics; monitoring the effectiveness of the interventions; and evaluating the medical and 
economic consequences.   
 
Recommended Strategic Actions  
 
Page  21
21
2. 
In view of the immediacy of the avian influenza threat, WHO recommends that all countries 
undertake urgent action to prepare for a pandemic.  Advice on doing so is contained in the recently 
revised 
WHO global influenza preparedness plan
 (2005) and a new 
WHO checklist for influenza 
pandemic preparedness planning (2005).  
Table 1 describes the phases of increasing public health risk 
associated with the emergence of a new influenza virus subtype that may pose a pandemic threat, and 
the overarching public health goals under each phase. 
 
Table 1:  Phases of Increasing Public Health Risk Associated with the Emergency of a New 
Influenza Virus Subtype that May Pose a Pandemic Threat 
 
PHASES                                                                                        OVERARCHING PUBLIC HEALTH GOALS   
 
Interpandemic period 
Phase 1. 
No new influenza virus subtypes have been detected       Strengthen influenza pandemic preparedness 
in humans.  An influenza virus subtype that has caused human      at the global, regional, national and  
infection may be present in animals.  If present in animals, the      sub-national levels. 
risk of human infection or disease is considered to be low. 
Phase 2.  
No new influenza virus subtypes have been detected       Minimize the risk of transmission to humans; 
in humans.  However, a circulating animal influenza virus              detect and report such transmission rapidly 
subtype poses a substantial risk of human disease.                          if it occurs. 
Pandemic alert period                                                                       
Phase 3. 
Human infection(s) with a new subtype, but no               Ensure rapid characterization of the new virus      
human-to-human spread, or at most rare instances of spread         subtype and early detection, notification         
to a close contact.                                                                            and response to additional cases. 
 
Phase 4. 
Small cluster(s) with limited human-to-human                Contain the new virus within limited foci or 
transmission but spread is highly localized, suggesting that           delay spread to gain time to implement 
the virus is not well adapted to humans.                                          preparedness measures, including vaccine 
 
development.   
 
Phase 5. 
Larger cluster(s) but human-to-human spread still          Maximize efforts to contain or delay spread, 
localized, suggesting that the virus is becoming increasingly        to possibly avert a pandemic, and to gain 
better adapted to humans, but may not yet be fully                        time to implement pandemic response 
transmissible (substantial pandemic risk).                                      measures. 
Pandemic period 
 
Phase 6. 
Pandemic: increased and sustained transmission in          Minimize the impact of the pandemic. 
general population. 
 
a
The distinction between 
phase 1
 and 
phase 2
 is based on the risk of human infection or disease 
resulting from circulating strains in animals. The distinction is based on various factors and their relative 
importance according to current scientific knowledge. Factors may include pathogenicity in animals and 
humans, occurrence in domesticated animals and livestock or only in wildlife, whether the virus is enzootic 
or epizootic, geographically localized or widespread, and/or other scientific parameters. 
 
b
The distinction between 
phase 3
,
phase 4
 and 
phase 5 
is based on an assessment of the risk of a 
pandemic.  Various factors and their relative importance according to current scientific knowledge may be 
Page  22
22
considered.  Factors may include rate of transmission, geo-graphical location and spread, severity of illness, 
presence of genes from human strain (if derived from an animal strain), and/or  other scientific parameters. 
 
Source:  WHO 2005 
 
In order to accomplish the public health goals described for each phase, WHO recommends 
strategic actions that can be undertaken to capitalize on each opportunity to intervene.  Given the many 
uncertainties about the evolution of the pandemic threat, including the amount of time left to prepare, a 
wise approach involves a mix of measures that immediately address critical problems with longer-term 
measures that sustainably improve the world’s capacity to protect itself against the recurring pandemic 
threat. 
 
3. 
The strategic actions are: 
 
Reduce opportunities for human infection
,
including: 
 
·
Support to the FAO/OIE control strategy; 
·
Intensify collaboration between the animal and public health sectors; 
·
Strengthen risk communication to rural residents; and 
·
Improve approaches to environmental detection of the virus 
 
Strengthen the early warning systems
,
including: 
 
·
Improve the detection of human cases; 
·
Combine detection of new outbreaks in animals with active searches for human cases; 
·
Support epidemiological investigation; 
·
Coordinate clinical research; 
·
Strengthen risk assessment; 
·
Strengthen existing national influenza centers throughout the risk-prone regions; and 
·
Give risk-prone countries an incentive to collaborate internationally. 
 
Contain or delay spread at the source
,
including: 
 
·
Establish an international stockpile of anti-viral drugs; 
·
Develop mass delivery mechanisms for anti-viral drugs; and 
·
Conduct surveillance of antiviral susceptibility. 
 
Reduce morbidity, mortality and social disruption, 
including: 
 
·
Monitor the pandemic in real time; 
·
Introduce non-pharmaceutical interventions; 
·
Use of antiviral drugs to protect priority groups; 
·
Augment vaccine supplies; 
·
Ensure equitable access to vaccines; and 
·
Communicate risks to the public. 
 
Conduct research to guide response measures
,
including: 
Page  23
23
 
·
Assess the epidemiological characteristics of an emerging pandemic; 
·
Monitor the effectiveness of human interventions; and 
·
Evaluate the medical and economic consequences. 
Page  24
24
Annex 3 
Restructuring of the Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project 
to Address the Avian Influenza Emergency
 
The Government of Azerbaijan and the World Bank have agreed to restructure the 
Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA-2) to address the avian 
flue emergency. The ongoing components of IBTA-2 are expected to be implemented by 
June 30, 2006, leaving an estimated US$5,145,000 of credit funds available for the 
restructured project.   
 
A.  
Development Objectives of the Restructured Project 
 
The restructured project will reduce the threat posed to humans by HPAI infection and 
other zoonoses in domestic poultry and prepare for the control and response to an 
influenza pandemic and other infectious diseases.  To achieve the additional project 
objectives, the project will support: (i) prevention; (ii) preparedness and planning; and 
(iii) response and containment. Achieving these goals will contribute to diminishing the 
burden of disease and loss of productivity, limiting the regional spread of HPAI, and 
enhancing economic and social safety at the national, regional, and global levels.  
 
B.  
Project Restructuring 
 
The restructured project will finance the following four new components (see page 4 for 
the approximate budget):  
 
·
Component I - Veterinary Services
.
This component will support national 
prevention and control strategies proposed by the Republic of Azerbaijan to cover 
its needs in the short and medium term based on the assessments of the AI 
preparedness of the National Veterinary Services and the vulnerability of the 
livestock sector to new emerging infectious diseases.  This component will 
support the following five areas of activity: (i) enhancing HPAI prevention and 
preparedness capability; (ii) strengthening of veterinary services, disease 
surveillance, diagnostic capacity and applied research for HPAI and other 
zoonoses; (iii) strengthening of HPAI control programs and outbreak containment 
plans, including poultry vaccination, as well as capacities to implement those 
plans; (iv) improving bio-security in poultry production and trade, isolating its 
potentially adverse effects on other aspects of people's lives, and (v) assistance in 
the design of a compensation fund for both commercial and small backyard 
poultry growers, which will help to mitigate economic losses. 
 
Page  25
25
·
Component II 
–
Human Health
.
This component will address short and 
medium term needs with respect to core public health functions.  Building an 
effective national public health response requires an enabling environment and the 
necessary resources to quickly scale up proven interventions nationwide.  Thus, 
the restructured project will help to operationalize elements 
of
the Government’s 
Joint Plan of Action, thereby expanding and intensifying the responses rapidly.  
The emphasis will be on reducing the risks of animal to human transmission and 
on reducing the impact of a global pandemic, if one were to develop..  Several 
tools will help achieve these aims:  (i) year-round surveillance; (ii) effective and 
accurate methods of diagnosis; (iii) planning for social distancing interventions; 
and (vi) strengthened medical services.  The interventions supported under the 
restructured project will be based on Azerbaijan’s epidemiological and 
programmatic needs, and well-assessed options for meeting them.  The 
interventions will be grouped in two sub-components: (i) enhancing Public Health 
Program planning and coordination; and (ii) strengthening of National Public 
Health Surveillance Systems. 
 
·
Component III - Public Awareness
.
This component is designed to promote 
awareness and coordination for the execution of the contingency plans and the 
national AI strategy.  It is designed to safeguard human health, in particular for 
animal health workers, poultry backyard producers and their families, and 
consumers, by improving knowledge and consequently behaviors. It is also 
designed to contain the damage to large scale poultry production. A 
comprehensive communication strategy has been partially elaborated, in 
cooperation with the international community and national authorities.  Support 
will be provided to the relevant government agencies and NGOs for 
communication activities, in order to increase the commitment of government, 
private sector, and civil society organizations, and raise awareness, knowledge 
and understanding among the different groups of stakeholders about the risk and 
potential impact of AI.  Activities will include: (i) development and dissemination 
of communication materials for poultry producers and processors, consumers, 
technicians, medical personnel, children and teenagers, etc.; (ii) design and 
realization of training courses, seminars, workshops and other events for 
extension and veterinary staff, health workers at the regional and district levels, 
teachers and media people; and (iii) strengthening effective coordination and 
collaboration among national agencies, NGOs and the international community. 
 
·
Component IV - Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation
.
The component would support costs associated with: (i)  project management and 
coordination, including the provision of technical assistance for procurement, 
financial management and training; and (ii)  project monitoring and impact 
evaluation assessments. 
 
Page  26
26
Annex 4
 
Wild Birds in Azerbaijan and migration map 
 
Wild Birds in Azerbaijan
.
Some 360 species of birds have been recorded in Azerbaijan. 
These range from the large - such as flamingos and eagles - to many kinds of waterfowl, 
colorful bee-eaters and rollers, the amusing, improbable Hoopoe, and numerous small 
brown warblers that even strain the identification skills of experts. The avian show keeps 
changing throughout the year. 
 
Winter
.
Azerbaijan's relatively mild winters attract many birds from farther north in 
Russia to winter. Millions of birds pass over or stop in Azerbaijan, especially during 
winter. Thousands of waterbirds - both large and small - concentrate in Azerbaijan's 
many wetlands and are located along the coast and inland. Wetland birds include 
swans, geese, ducks, flamingos and shorebirds (known as "waders" to the British) 
like Black-tailed Godwits, curlews and snipe. Along the coast, Common and Great 
Black-headed Gulls can be seen. Hen Harriers and a few Peregrine Falcons and 
Saker Falcons hunt over land; the latter two, may be illegally captured for lucrative 
sale to Arab falconers. Some species of small birds that nest farther north also come 
to Azerbaijan for the winter. Large flocks of Meadow Pipits and Bramblings, for 
instance, roam the open areas, feeding on seeds. In the mountains, most birds of the 
alpine zone, like Guldenstadt's Redstart and the Great Rosefinch, are forced lower in 
winter by snow; some even migrate down into the river valleys. 
 
Spring
 migration peaks in April and May. All sorts of small birds, such as shrikes, 
warblers and flycatchers, stay to nest or pass on through. Early arrivals from the 
south include Hoopoes, Barn Swallows and wheatears, all easily seen along 
roadsides. This type of bird tent to live closer to humans, a factor which may 
facilitate transmission. However their smaller size makes them less visible and 
therefore they may cause less concern. This would increase risk. Common Cranes or 
Steppe Eagle pass on their way to Russia or Kazakhstan. Yellow and blue bee-eaters 
and electric blue rollers. Along the coast, cormorants, terns and shorebirds stream by. 
Wild bird presence in wetlands is reduced because most of the waterfowl and 
shorebirds depart for northerly climes, beginning in late February. 
 
Summer
.
This is the time most birds reproduce. In the marshes, herons, Pigmy 
Cormorants and the ducks that have remained behind are quite conspicuous, while 
Purple Swamphens, Moorhens and Water Rails skulk in the reeds. The forest birds, 
such as tits and woodpeckers, in the mountain forests and remnant lowland patches, 
break away from the winter flocks to set up paired housekeeping. Alpine birds move 
upslope to the meadows below snowline. 
 
Page  27
27
Autumn
.
Bird migrations in fall are not as concentrated as they are in spring. There is no 
reproductive command pushing them, just the need to find a food supply for winter. 
Certain shorebirds start to arrive by late summer, followed by small land birds in 
September. Migration begins to be quite obvious in October with a variety of land 
and waterbirds and ends with the great influx of waterfowl (ducks, geese and swans) 
between October and December. Throughout the fall, raptors such as eagles and 
hawks pass through, especially along the coast. Waterbirds, too, have preferred 
flyways. The majority of them follow the coast, some cutting across the Absheron 
Peninsula, some going around it. While many birds fly further south along the coast 
beyond Azerbaijan to Iran, others turn westward and head into the Kur River 
lowlands toward interior wetlands or on to the Black Sea. 
 
The areas in Azerbaijan in which migrating birds travel and rest are indicated in Figure 1. 
Migrating birds fly this route twice each year, in autumn and spring. The spring migration 
starts in the middle of February, and finishes at the end of May. These birds travel from 
the African continent, up through Iran, over Azerbaijan then onwards to Russia and 
Siberia. The birds fly return on this path during the autumn migration, which begins at the 
end of August and continues until mid December, heading south to warmer climes.  Some 
migrating birds only travel as far as Azerbaijan during the migration. This happens in 
both directions with different species of bird.  
 
The number of migrating birds was estimated to have doubled in 2005, and due to the 
very cold winter in Russia, the migration started earlier: in the last week of January. 
Seventy two species of seabirds were witnessed on the migration, from a total of 224 
species of migrating birds on this flyway.  
 
The birds on the spring migration often come in close contact with people, poultry and 
wild birds in settlements. Birds on the autumn migration tend to remain closer to the sea 
coast, thus impacting minimally on the local bird population of Azerbaijan.  
 
There are also internal migrations within Azerbaijan. Most specifically, these occur from 
the mountains to the plains (and back) and between national parks in the southern half of 
the country.  Sample collectors, in the field of ornithology, wear gloves and special (but 
not
disposable) coats to collect parasitology specimens (blood and faeces).   
 
Page  28
28
 
Map of Azerbaijan displaying bidirectional migration routes of migratory (i.e. not 
national wild birds) wild birds with areas of maximum risk of transmission between 
migratory birds, national wild birds, poultry and humans
.
Page  29
29
Annex 5 
 
Guidance on the Biocontainment Levels for Laboratories 
 
Biocontainment
 Level 
REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
LABORATORY 
2
3
4
A) Laboratory siting and structure   
1.
Not next to known fire hazard 
Yes  
Yes 
Yes  
2.
Workplace separated from other 
activities 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
3.
Personnel access limited 
Yes 
Yes  
Yes  
4.
Protected against entry/exit of 
rodents and insects 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
5.
Liquid effluent must be sterilized 
 
Yes and 
monitored  
Yes and 
monitored  
6.
Isolated by airlock. Continuous 
internal airflow 
 
Yes  
Yes 
7.
Input and extract air to be filtered 
using HEPA or equivalent 
 
Single on extract  
Single for 
input, 
double for 
extract  
8.
Mechanical air supply system with 
fail-safe system 
 
Yes Yes 
 
9.
Laboratory sealable to permit 
fumigation 
 
Yes  
Yes  
10.
Incinerator for disposal of carcasses 
and waste 
Available
Yes 
 
Yes on site 
 
B) Laboratory facilities 
11.
Class 1/2/3 exhaust protective 
cabinet available 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
12.
Direct access to autoclave 
Yes  
Yes with 
double doors  
Yes with 
double doors  
13.
Specified pathogens stored in 
laboratory 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
14.
Double ended dunk tank required 
 
Preferable Yes 
 
Page  30
30
15.
Protective clothing not worn 
outside laboratory 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
16.
Showering required before exiting 
laboratory 
 
Yes 
 
17.
Safety Officer responsible for 
containment 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
18.
Staff receive special training in the 
requirements needed 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
C) Laboratory discipline  
19.
Warning notices for containment 
area 
Yes Yes 
Yes 
 
20.
Laboratory must be lockable 
Yes 
Yes  
Yes  
21.
Authorized entry of personnel 
Yes  
Yes  
Yes  
22.
On entering all clothing removed 
and clean clothes put on 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
23.
On exiting all laboratory clothes 
removed, individual must wash and 
transfer to clean side 
 
Yes 
 
24.
Individual must shower prior to 
transfer to clean side 
 
Yes 
 
25.
All accidents reported 
Yes  
Yes  
Yes  
D) Handling of specimens 
26.
Packaging requirements to be 
advised prior to submission 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
27.
Incoming packages opened by 
trained staff 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
28.
Movement of pathogens from an 
approved laboratory to another 
requires a license 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
29.
Standard Operating Procedures 
covering all areas must be available
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
(Source: OIE) 
Page  31
31
Annex 6 
 
International Best Practice in Safety of Research Laboratories
2
Procurement / Transport 
y
Minimize acquisition / quantity of hazardous materials, minimize storage time needed 
y
I
dentify mechanism of waste disposal before acquisition 
y
For chemicals, have Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) accessible/confine deliveries to areas that are 
equipped to handle them (and train relevant personnel) 
y
Ensure container is intact and appropriately labeled (US regulations detail how hazardous materials have to be 
identified, packaged, marked, labeled, documented and placarded) 
y
Transport in appropriate (secondary) containers 
y
Use triple packaging system for infectious and potentially infectious substances 
y
Adhere to international air transport regulations 
Storage / Management 
y
Inventory should have name as printed on the container 
y
For chemicals: include molecular formula for further identification and to provide a simple means of searching 
chemicals; include CAS (Chemical Abstract Service) registry number for unambiguous identification of chemicals 
despite the use of different naming conventions 
y
Source 
y
Size of container 
y
Hazard classification, as a guide to safe storage, handling, and disposal 
y
Date of acquisition, to ensure that unstable chemicals are not stored beyond their useful life, and Storage location 
 
Procedures 
y
Dispose of materials anticipated to not be needed within a reasonable time frame 
y
Use approved containers; make sure storage containers remain intact and sealed 
y
Dispose of chemicals prior to expiration date, monitor reactive chemicals 
y
Replace deteriorating labels before information is obscured or lost 
y
Follow regulations for safe storage in stockroom or lab 
y
Avoid storing chemicals on bench tops or lab hoods 
y
Store volatile chemicals in ventilated cabinet (near hood) 
y
If ventilation is not required, store in closable cabinet or on shelf with lip to prevent sliding 
y
Do not expose stored chemicals to heat or direct sunlight 
y
Observe all precautions regarding the storage of incompatible chemicals 
y
Provide vented cabinets beneath hoods for storing hazardous materials 
y
Use chemical storage refrigerators for storing chemicals 
y
Have fire protection system (sprinklers) 
y
Follow storage limits for flammable and combustible liquids 
y
Restrict access to storage facility 
Protocols / Facilities for Use in Research 
y
Wear and use appropriate personal protection materials to minimize exposure 
y
Wash hands  
y
Reduce the possibility of creating splashes or aerosols 
y
Contain in biological safety cabinets operations that generate aerosols 
2
US National Institutes of Health 
Page  32
32
y
Use good housekeeping 
y
Use mechanical pipetting devices 
y
Promptly decontaminate work surfaces 
y
Never eat, ring, smoke, handle contact lenses, apply cosmetics, or take medicine in the lab 
y
Take special care when using sharps 
y
Keep lab doors closed when experiments are in progress 
y
Use secondary leak-proof containers to move or transfer cultures 
y
Decontaminate infectious waste before disposal  
y
Post appropriate warning signs 
y
Mark emergency equipment, maintain it, inspect it; list telephone numbers to call in case of accident 
y
Control access 
 
For Radioisotopes 
y
Use only in designated areas 
y
Allow the presence of essential staff only 
y
Use personal protective equipment 
y
Monitor personal radiation exposures 
y
Use spill trays lined with disposable absorbent materials 
y
Limit radionuclide quantities 
y
Shield radiation sources 
y
Mark radiation containers with the radiation symbol, including radionuclide identity, activity, and assay date 
y
Use radiation meters to monitor working areas, protective clothing, and hands after completion of work 
y
Use appropriately shielded transport containers 
y
Remove radioactive waste frequently from the working area 
y
Maintain accurate records of use and disposal of radioactive materials 
y
Screen dosimetry records for materials exceeding the dose limits 
y
Establish and regularly exercise emergency response plans 
y
In emergencies, assist injured persons first 
y
Clean contaminated areas thoroughly
 
y
Write and keep incident reports
 
For Animal laboratories 
y
Require good microbiological techniques 
y
Establish policies and protocols for all operations and for access to vivarium 
y
Establish appropriate medical surveillance program and supervision for staff 
y
Prepare and adopt safety or operations manual 
y
Post warning signs 
y
Decontaminate work surfaces after use 
y
Use appropriate biological safety cabinets or isolator cages; handle and decontaminate animal bedding and waste 
materials appropriately 
y
Transport material for autoclaving or incineration safely, in closed containers 
y
Treat, report, and record injuries
 
Training of Personnel 
Employer develops Chemical Hygiene Plan containing (models available from U.S. government and from some 
professional societies) 
y
Employee information and training about the hazards of chemicals in the work area: 
o
How to detect their presence or release 
Page  33
33
o
Work practices and how to use protective equipment 
o
Emergency response procedures 
y
Circumstances under which a lab operation requires prior approval from the institution 
y
Standard operating procedures for work with hazardous chemicals 
y
Criteria for use of control measures 
y
Measures to ensure proper operation of fume hoods and other protective equipment 
y
Provisions for additional employee protection for work with select carcinogens and toxins 
y
Provisions for medical consultations and examinations for employees 
y
Labs should establish their own safety groups at the department level (include students and support staff) 
y
Labs should provide training in safety and waste management for all lab workers, including students in 
laboratory classes 
y
Labs should incorporate institutionally supported lab and equipment inspection programs into their overall health 
and safety programs 
y
Review exit / evacuation routes 
y
Know how to report fire, injury, chemical spill, or summon emergency response 
y
Know first aid 
y
Know location and use of emergency equipment such as safety showers and eyewashes 
y
Know location and use of fire extinguishers and spill control equipment (have appropriate kits readily available) 
y
Lab personnel should establish ongoing relationships and clear lines of communication with emergency response 
teams  
y
Include information on safe methods for highly hazardous procedures commonly encountered by lab personnel 
that involve: 
o
Inhalation risks 
o
Ingestion risks 
o
Risks of percutaneous exposures  
o
Bites and scratches when handling animals 
o
Handling of blood and other potentially hazardous pathological materials 
o
Decontamination and disposal of infectious material 
Segregation / Triage of Waste 
Multihazardous waste 
–
goal is reduction of waste to a waste that presents a single hazard. 
y
Consider frequency and amount of waste generated; assess risk  
y
Identify / characterize waste: 
o
Physical description 
o
Water reactivity 
o
Water solubility 
o
pH and possibly neutralization information 
o
ignitability / flammability 
o
presence of oxidizer 
o
presence of sulfides / cyanides 
o
presence of halogens 
o
presence of radioactive materials 
o
presence of biohazardous materials 
o
presence of toxic constituents 
y
Minimize waste’s hazards 
y
Determine options for management of hazards 
y
If appropriate, take steps to neutralize waste or render it non-hazardous 
y
When possible, select a single management option 
y
Establish procedures for dealing with unstable waste, or waste that requires special storage or handling 
Page  34
34
y
Store safely: 
o
Designated room or facility modified to contain the waste (with ventilation and effluent 
trapping) 
o
Protect workers 
o
Minimize risk of fire or spill 
o
Minimize radiation levels outside of area 
o
Consider compatibility of materials being accumulated (e.g., aqueous and non-aqueous 
waste should be separated) 
Give particular attention to the handling or cleaning of radioactive laboratory ware, and to the proper disposal of 
arps.
o
Non-contaminated (non-infectious) waste can be reused or recycled or disposed of as 
general waste 
o
Contaminated (infectious) sharps 
–
collect in puncture-proof containers fitted with 
covers and treated as infectious; autoclave if appropriate 
o
Contaminated material for decontamination by autoclaving and thereafter washing and 
reuse or recycling 
o
Contaminated material for direct incineration 
Disposal 
No activity should begin unless a plan for the disposal of hazardous waste has been formulated 
·
Use appropriate disposal method for each category of waste 
·
Use appropriate containers 
·
Label and securely close waste containers 
·
Separate wastes as appropriate  
 
For low level radioactive waste, options include 
·
Storage time for decay and indefinite on site storage,  
·
Burial at a low-level radioactive waste site,  
·
Incineration, or 
·
Sanitary sewer disposal 
 
For biological waste, options include 
·
Disinfection 
·
Autoclaving 
·
For liquids, disposal in sanitary sewer; putrescible waste disposed of by incineration; needles and sharps 
require destruction, typically by incineration or grinding  
 
Collection and storage of waste
 
·
At satellite area near lab:  
o
should be clearly identified, ventilated if necessary 
o
determine whether to recycle, reuse, or dispose 
o
hold here for less than one year; when containment volume limits reached, move to central 
accumulation area – package appropriately 
·
At central accumulation area: 
o
separate according to compatibility, commingle solvents when appropriate 
o
label clearly, store in appropriate containers 
o
limit storage time to 90 days 
Page  35
35
o
(ensure that employees are trained to handle waste materials as well as contingency planning 
for emergencies) 
o
When transporting, make provisions for spill control in case of accident; have internal 
tracking system to follow movement of waste 
o
Ensure that all necessary records have been generated (Quantities and identification of waste 
generated and shipped; Documentation and analyses of unknown materials; Manifests for 
waste shipping as well as verification of waste disposal; Any other information required to 
ensure compliance and safety from long-term liability) 
·
Disposal options: 
o
Incineration 
–
is method of choice for most wastes, but is most expensive 
o
Normal trash – only where appropriate, must be clearly identified and appropriately labeled 
o
Sanitary sewer – not commonly used; solutions must be aqueous and biodegradable, or low 
toxicity inorganics – make sure sewer doesn’t drain into water supply inappropriate for waste 
disposal, and make sure waste is highly diluted 
o
Release to the atmosphere – not acceptable; fume hoods must have trapping devices to 
prevent discharge to atmosphere 
·
If hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are mixed, entire waste volume must be treated as hazardous 
·
Preparation for transport to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) 
·
Waste generator must obtain assurance (in terms of documentation, permits, records) that provider is reliable 
 
For infectious material 
·
Decontaminate, autoclave, or incinerate in lab 
·
Package appropriately (for incineration or for transfer to another facility for incineration) 
·
Protect against hazards to others to those who might come in contact with discarded items 
Page  36
36
Annex 7
 
-
A
MITIGATION PLAN - Carcass and Waste Material Disposal by Burial   
 
Phase 
Hazard 
Mitigation 
Measure 
Costs per location   
Institutiona
Responsibility
Install
Operate
Supervise
1)  Set up of the site 
 
Location of site  
 
Indirect and direct 
pollution of water 
Base of pit minimum 1 m 
above the water-table and 
100 m from water supply or 
well; MoE certifies soil 
characteristics suitable for 
burial 
 
Local 
Veterinary 
Service; MoE; 
local 
administartion 
P
f
Excavation 
Direct pollution of 
water 
Dust  
Not into water table 
Minor works 
Suppression with water 
$50 per 
pit (2 m
3
pit) 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Disposal of soil 
Loss of soil quality 
Use as overfill 
Included 
in costs 
above 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Secure site 
 
Transfer of virus to 
humans or animals 
Fencing and implementation 
of a comprehensive bio 
security strategy to address 
contamination in both 
directions (in and out, out and 
in) 
$50  
Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
2)  On site operations 
 
Transport of dead and 
slaughtered birds and 
waste materials 
Emission of virus 
to air 
Sealed  covered container 
Short transport  distances; 
dispose on site if feasible 
Operator training and 
supervision 
$50 
transportat
ion costs 
(1000 
dead 
birds); 
Training 
is 
included 
in project 
training 
budget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
Emission of virus 
via aerosols or
Sealed covered container 
 
Local 
Veterinary 
C
Page  37
37
Phase 
Hazard 
Mitigation 
Measure 
Costs per location   
Institutiona
Responsibility
Install
Operate
Supervise
body fluids from 
dead stock 
Service 
Virus 
contamination of 
transport vehicles  
Disinfectant used at 
recommended rates 
Use of appropriate sprays for 
wash down 
Operator training and 
supervision 
 
Part of 
project 
training 
package/b
udget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
Contamination of 
personnel 
Mechanical handling 
Operator training and 
supervision 
Disinfecting procedures 
Part of 
project 
training 
package/b
udget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service, MOH 
C
o
Unloading  of dead  
poultry  
Leaching of fluids 
Release of virus to 
air 
Operator training and 
supervision 
Use of mechanical loader 
Carcasses in bags 
Part of 
project 
training 
package/b
udget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Burial of dead  poultry 
Release of virus to 
air via aerosols 
during or after 
burial 
Contamination of 
personnel 
Operator training and 
supervision 
Cover carcasses with 400mm 
soil first, then apply lime, then 
complete filling 
Cover with minimum 2 m soil 
to ground level, plus overfill 
Disinfecting procedures 
Part of 
project 
training 
package/b
udget; $25 
for 32 kg 
of 
quicklime 
for 2 m
3
pit 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Temporary storage for 
culled birds 
accumulated between 
transport runs 
Leaching of fluids 
Groundwater 
pollution 
Release of virus to 
air via aerosols 
Rupture of storage 
units 
Rodent contact and 
assess by 
scavengeners 
Enclosed building 
Shelter from weather  
Operator training and 
supervision. 
Minimal storage times. 
Impermeable surfaces. 
 
Part of 
project 
training 
package/b
udget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Birds may not be 
effectively killed 
Serious animal 
welfare issues. 
Virus spread form 
escaped poultry 
Supervision and monitoring 
Slaughter Operator Training
 
Part of 
proejct 
training 
package 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
3) Clean up of 
Page  38
38
Phase 
Hazard 
Mitigation 
Measure 
Costs per location   
Institutiona
Responsibility
Install
Operate
Supervise
infected premises 
Disposal of waste from 
infected premises 
Disinfectants 
contaminate 
surface and 
groundwater  
Influenza virus 
release 
Odour 
Minimal transport distances. 
Covered loads 
Use appropriate disinfectants 
Avoid drainage to watershed  
Operator training and 
supervision 
Part of 
project 
training 
budget 
 Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
C
o
Hold solid waste for the 
sanitary period of 42 
days.   
Transmission of 
Influenza virus by 
air, water, vermin  
Marked and fenced dedicated 
area 
Covered heaps  
Impermeable surfaces 
Hold for sanitary period  
S20  
Local 
Veterinary 
Service 
S
Use of disinfectants on 
the surfaces of the 
infected premises 
Biocides toxic to 
aquatic fauna from 
drainage and 
surface run off 
Block or intercept the flows in 
drains to surface or 
groundwater. 
Collect and store the diluted 
disinfectant and organic 
material for the sanitary period  
of 42 days 
Operator training and 
supervision 
 
Local 
Environmental 
Authority 
C
o
Page  39
39
Annex 7 -
B
MITIGATION PLAN - Carcass Disposal by Incineration in Pits
Page  40
40
Phase 
H
AZARD
 
Mitigation 
Measure 
Cost 
 
Costs per village  except   
Institutional 
Responsibility 
I
nstall Operate 
Supervise
O
1
Set up of the 
facility  
 
Location of pit  
 
Indirect and direct 
pollution of water 
 
50 
–
100 m  from water supply 
or well 
 
SVS, Local 
administration 
SVC 
Excavations 
Direct pollution of water 
Dust  
Not into water table 
Minor works 
Suppression  with water 
$50 per pit 
(0.6x0.5x2.6) 
 SVS 
Contractors
Disposal of soil 
Loss of soil quality 
Spread top soil on land 
Included in 
costs above 
 SVS 
Contracto
Supply of 
materials 
Environmental burden of 
extraction and transport 
Local supply where possible 
 
$40 diesel cost 
per 
incineration; 
$70 cost of 
woods  
 SVS 
Contractors
2. On site 
operations 
 
Transport of 
slaughtered birds 
Road traffic emissions 
from 
Fuel use 
Short travel for slaughtered 
livestock 
$50 
transportation  
costs (1000 
dead birds) 
 SVS 
SVS 
Emission of virus  to air 
Sealed  covered container 
Short transport  distances  
Operator training and 
supervision 
Part of project 
training 
budget 
 SVS SVS 
Emission of virus & body 
fluids from dead stock 
Sealed  covered container 
 
$200  
SVS 
SVS 
Emission of virus on 
transport vehicles  
Disinfectant used at 
recommended rates 
Use of appropriate sprays for 
wash down 
Operator training and 
supervision 
 
Part of project 
training 
package/budge
t
SVS SVS 
Contamination of 
personnel 
Mechanical handling 
 Operator training and 
supervision 
Disinfecting procedures 
Part of project 
training 
package/budge
t
SVS SVS 
Unloading  of 
dead   poultry  
Leaching of nutrients 
Groundwater pollution 
Release of virus to air 
Operator training and 
supervision 
Impermeable hardstanding  
Use of mechanical loader 
Close transfer 
Carcasses in bags 
Part of project 
training 
package/budge
t
SVS SVS 
Temporary 
storage for culled 
birds 
Accumulated 
between burning 
runs 
Leaching of nutrients 
Groundwater pollution 
Release of virus to air 
Rupture of vessel or bags 
Rodent contact 
 
Enclosed building 
Shelter from weather  
Operator training and 
supervision. 
Minimal storage times. 
Impermeable surfaces. 
 
SVS SVS 
Birds may not be 
effectively killed 
Serious animal welfare 
issues. 
Virus spread form 
escaped poultry 
Supervision and monitoring 
Slaughter Operator Training
 
Part of proejct 
training 
package/budge
t
SVS SVS 
Storage of fuel oil 
Groundwater pollution 
Soil contamination 
Bunded tank 
Impermeable surfaces 
Run off containment tank 
 
Part  of 
incinerator 
package 
 SVS SVS 
Incineration 
Gaseous emissions 
Op
erator training and 
Part  of 
SV
S
SV
S
Page  41
41
Page  42
42
Phase 3 clean up 
of infected 
premises 
 
Hardstanding  
remains after 
incineration 
Contaminated water if 
used to store organic 
materials  
 
Maintain as a clean area. 
Contain contaminated water  in 
tank 
 
SVS 
Municipality
Handling of 
waste from 
infected premises 
Disinfectants  
Leaching of nutrients 
surface and groundwater 
pollution 
Influenza virus release 
Odour 
Impermeable surfaces  
Drainage to impermeable vessel. 
Treatment on site 
Operator training and 
supervision 
$10  
 
SVS 
SV
Disposal of 
stored wash water 
with disinfectant 
mixed in    
Pollution of groundwater 
Toxicity to soil organisms 
Pollution of surface water 
Disinfectant used at 
recommended dilution. 
Further dilution by clean water 
Degradation of biocide  in 
storage  
10 m wide no spread zone near 
drains and watercourses. 
Avoid slopes and spread 
according to a waste 
management plan  
Operator training and 
supervision  
 
SVS 
SV
Removal of 
faeces from 
backyards and 
poultry housing 
interior  
Transfer of virus in faeces 
mixed in the soils. 
Disinfectants  
surface and groundwater 
pollution 
loss of soil  
 
Minimal transport distances. 
Covered loads 
Operator training and 
supervision 
$100*holding  
SVS 
SV
Hold solid waste 
for the sanitary 
period.   
Transmission of Influenza 
virus  by air ,water, 
vermin  
Marked dedicated area 
Covered heaps  
Impermeable surfaces 
Removal of soil with  waste. 
$20 *holding 
 
SVS 
Holding 
own
Use of 
disinfectants on 
the surfaces of 
the infected 
premises 
Biocides are list 2 
substances in the 
Groundwater Directive 
toxic to aquatic fauna 
from drainage and surface 
run off 
Block or intercept the flows in 
drains to surface or groundwater. 
Collect and store the diluted 
disinfectant and organic material 
for the sanitary period  of 42 
days 
Operator training and 
supervision 
 
$500*holding 
for temporary 
tank 
 SVS 
SV
Page  43
43
A
nnex 8 A
MITIGATION PLAN 
–
Laboratory Safety and Waste Management 
 
Phase Hazard 
Mitigation 
Measure 
Costs per location   
Institutional
Responsibility
Install
Operate
Supervise
1)  Assess 
labs/hospitals 
needs for 
training, 
equipment and 
physical 
infrastructure  
None 
 
MoH/Vet 
Services/PIU 
AI PIU, 
Consultants
2) Conduct 
training and 
provide 
Category 3 
cabinets 
Operation of PCR 
below BSL-3 risks 
release of virus 
Training in biosafety 
procedures; handling 
carcasses and samples in Cat 
3
biosafety cabinets; avoiding 
if possible culture of live 
virus 
Included in 
project 
training 
budget  
 MoH/Vet 
Services 
Consultants, 
contractors
3) Procure 
equipment and 
provide staff 
training 
Release of virus 
Training on new equipment 
Included in 
project 
training 
budget 
 MoH/Vet 
Services/PIU 
AI PIU, 
contractors, 
consultants
4) Ongoing 
laboratory 
operations 
Inappropriate waste 
management 
Training and upgrades to 
laboratory infrastructure and 
equipment based on 
International Best Practice in 
Safety of Research 
Laboratories 
Included in 
project 
training 
budget 
 MoH/Vet 
Services 
AI PIU, 
contractors, 
consultants
Page  44
44
Annex 8 - B   
 
MONITORING PLAN - Disposal of Poultry in Burial Pits 
 
Phase 
What
 
parameter is 
to be 
monitored? 
Where 
is to be 
monitore
d? 
How 
is it to be 
monitored/ 
type of 
monitoring 
equipment? 
When 
is it to be 
monitored -
frequency 
or 
continuous? 
Why 
is the 
parameter to 
be monitored 
(optional
)?
 
Responsibility
Baseline 
 
Burial in pits 
or 
unregulated 
disposal 
Burial 
sites  
Observation During 
burial 
 Veterinary 
Services, local 
government 
Construct 
 
Site selection 
and pit 
construction  
Burial 
sites 
Observation; 
Design and 
construction 
to 
appropriate 
standard 
 
During 
construction 
After 
completion 
of 
construction 
To ensure 
appropriate 
size and 
design 
Veterinary 
Services, 
Ministry of 
Ecology, local 
government 
Operate 
 
Safe handling 
of carcasses 
and materials 
for disposal; 
Disinfection 
of workers 
and 
equipment 
Burial 
sites  
 
Observation 
and records. 
 
During 
burial 
 
Hourly 
when 
operating 
 
During 
disinfection 
before 
breaks and 
at end of 
day  
To avoid 
spreading the 
virus;  
to avoid 
water 
pollution 
from 
disinfectants 
 
Veterinary 
Services 
 
Closing 
 
Burial pit 
Burial 
sites 
Observation 
and records. 
 
After pit it 
closed 
 
To ensure 
correct 
closure to 
prevent 
spread of 
virus  
Veterinary 
Services, local 
government 
Page  45
45
Annex 9 
–
A
MONITORING PLAN- Disposal of Poultry by Incineration in Pits 
 
Phase 
What
 parameter 
is to be 
monitored? 
Where 
is to be 
monitored? 
How 
is it to be monitored/ 
type of monitoring 
equipment? 
When 
is it to be 
monitored -
frequency or 
continuous? 
Why 
is the parameter 
to be monitored 
(optional
)?
 
Responsibility
Baseline 
 
Burial in pits  
Burial sites  
Observation 
During burial 
 
SVS 
Construct 
 
Site selection 
and 
impermeable 
hard standing  
Incineration sites  
Designs and 
construction to avoid 
escape of liquid to 
water 
During 
construction 
After completion 
of construction 
To avoid water 
pollution 
SVS, M
ENR
Operate 
 
Incinerator 
emissions 
 
Smoke odour 
CO, O
2
Temperature 
Particulate  
HCl, CO, SO
2
Washdown 
water emmision  
Incinerator flue 
stack 
Effluent tank 
 
Drains near the 
site 
Integral 
instrumentation and 
records. 
Visual and 
olfactory 
assessments of 
emissions 
Extractive  
 
Visual presence in 
open channels 
During 
incineration 
 
Hourly when 
operating 
 
Continuous 
 
Annual   
 
At washdown  
To avoid air 
pollution 
 
To avoid water 
pollution  
 
Incinerator operator
MENR 
Page  46
46
Annex 9 -
B
MONITORING PLAN 
–
Laboratory Safety and Waste Management 
 
Phase 
What
 
parameter 
is to be 
monitored? 
Where 
is to be 
monitored? 
How 
is it to be 
monitored/ 
type of 
monitoring 
equipment? 
When 
is it to be 
monitored -
frequency or 
continuous? 
Why 
is the 
paramet
er to be 
monitore
d
(optional
)?
 
Responsibility
Baseline 
 
Republican 
Veterinaria
n
Lab and 
two zonal 
labs 
 
Baku and  
regional 
labs/hospitals 
Observation 
Once prior to 
project 
effectiveness 
Establish 
baseline 
M&E specialist 
and 
environmental 
consultant of AI 
PIU 
Training 
and  
Renovation
 
Staff 
training; 
lab/hospital 
renovations 
Baku and 
regional 
labs/hospital
s
Observation; 
records of 
training; 
Design and 
construction 
to 
appropriate 
standard 
 
After 
completion of 
training and 
construction 
To 
ensure 
satisfact
ory 
completi
on
of 
training 
and 
lab/hospi
tal 
renovati
ons 
M&E specialist 
and 
environmental 
consultant of AI 
PIU  
Procure 
and install 
equipment 
 
Installation 
and safe 
operation 
of 
equipment 
Baku and 
regional 
labs/hospital
s
Observation 
and records 
of training . 
 
After 
installation, 
before 
operations 
 
Quarterly 
thereafter  
To avoid 
spreading 
the virus 
 
M&E specialist 
and 
Environmental 
consultant hired 
by the AI PIU  
Page  47
47
Annex 10 
 
Report on Dissemination and Public Consultation on the Draft Environmental 
Management Plan for the Azerbaijan Avian Influenza (AI) Project 
 
Prepared by Ayten Shirinova 
Local Environmental Consultant
Draft Environmental Management Plan (EMP) of the AI Project was prepared in English and Azerbaijan 
languages. 
 
The cover letter was prepared and sent to the certain Ministries together with the draft EMP and summary 
for review, comments and confirmation of data, roles and responsibilities. 
The official letters with the comments and suggestions were
received from the Ministry of Environment and 
Natural Resources, State Veterinary Committee and the Ministry of Health. 
On April 10
th
,
2006 the draft EMP was posted on SAAC website. The Ministry of Ecology and Natural 
Resources was also contacted with the request to post draft EMP on its website. However, it turned out 
impossible at this moment as the Ministry’s web site is under the restoration. It is expected to post EMP on 
MOE website after restoration.  
Paper copies of the document were disseminated to public through the Aarhus Public Information Center of 
the Ministry of Environment. 
 
Consultations with poultry growers (commercial and backyard) SAAC, Vet Services representatives 
regarding EMP, costs of mitigation measures were conducted and mitigation plan was completed by filling 
in data missed.  
On May 31, 2006 a public briefing and consultation on 
the draft EMP was held at the Caspian Environment
Program
office in Baku. It was attended by the representatives from the Ministries of MOE, MOH, SAAC, 
Veterinary Service, NGOs,
local representatives of international agencies, poultry farm, poultry trader and 
press.   The list of participants is attached. 
All invited people were provided with the briefing materials 
prior the meeting so they can actively 
participate.  
 
The meeting was mediated by AI PIU Director Mr. Huseyn Huseynov
,
who briefly introduced goal and the 
agenda of the meeting, the subject of AI 
Project and the Environmental Management Plan prepared for it.  
All participants were given a chance to introduce themselves and their employer organizations.  
 
Ms. Ayten Shirinova has made EMP power point presentation and brief main points of the document. 
 
Then meeting was opened for Q&A and comments.  
 
Main points outlined were: 
 
·
All actions against the virus should be taken respecting international standards. 
·
Health legislation needs to be included in EMP 
Page  48
48
·
Mobilization and cooperation of all relevant Ministries and organizations in order to 
coordinate 
activities against the spread of the disease throughout the country.   
·
More public awareness about issue and strengthening public involvement into the process  
·
To consider different carcass disposal options  
·
To develop more detailed mechanism of the monitoring and results to be reported to the public 
 
In a conclusion all participants expressed their willingness to cooperate, to 
get themselves closer acquainted 
with the proposed AI 
Project and its Environmental Management Plan and to send in their comments and 
suggestions within a week should such comments arise.  
 
Attached are: 
 
·
List of participants of the public briefing of the draft EMP 
 
·
Comparison Of Disposal Methods 
 
Page  49
49
Annex 1 
 
List of Participants  
 
Name of the Participant 
Organization/Title 
Contact Phone 
1
Tamilla Musayeva 
USAID  
Development Assistance Assistant 
99412-498 18 35 ext 216 
Mobile: 050-204 09 34 
tmusayeva@usaid.gov
2
Gunay Rzayeva 
Progma Azerbaijan Agro business Center   
Quality Administrative  
Mobile: 050-549 02 40 
grzayeva@prograaz.com
3
Eyyub Huseynov 
The Union of Free Consumers 
Chairman  
99412 441 28 33 
Mobile: 050- 341 62 25 
eyub@consumer.baku.az
http://icu.iatp.az
4
Aydin Veliyev 
Poultry Association  
99412 
–
459 95 75 
 
5
Agayev Sabir 
ANB 
 
 
6
Azer Melikov 
IMC 
Mobile: 050- 375 48 91 
 
7
Kliment Asadov 
State Veterinary Committee  
Epidemiological Department Director 
99412- 462-64-09 
050-374- 56-21 
 
8
Zakir Azimov  
Devechi Broler –Poultry farm – executive Director 
99412-449-81-36 
 
9
Irada Yagubova 
“EL” NGO, FMESA 
99412- 449 81 30 
 
10 
Hashimov Hashim 
Ministry of Health-sector of Sanitary Epidemiological 
Surveillance/Leading Adviser  
99412-493 10 33 
Mobile:050- 320 36 18 
hhashimov@health.gov.az
doktaurus@intrans.
11 Anakhanum 
Mammadova 
TETA “HAZRI” NGO 
99412- 462-87-89 
lidiyak@bakinter.net
12 
Hasanov Tofik 
CA Project ADB 
Mobile: 050-329-29 71 
thasanov@caspian.i
13 
Elchin Sardarov 
“SANIYA” - Information Agency / NGO 
Chairman  
Mobile: 050- 317 38 25 
elchin.sardarov@cenn.org
esardar@inbox.ru
14 
Amy Evans  
World Bank 
1-202-473-8018 
Aevans1@worldbank.org
15 
Ayten Shirinova 
WB Environmental Consultant  
99412-497 17 85 
aytenshirinova@yahoo.com
16 
Husey Huseynov 
SAAC PIU-Director of Agricultural Department  
99412-493 46 93 
hhuseynov@agroagency.gov.az
17 
Masud Khatibi 
Agency for support to the Development of Agricultural  
PIU – Veterinarian Specialist  
99412-462-77 95 
Mobile: 050-345 60 86 
Vetspess_agency@rambler.ru
18 
Ayan Mollazade 
UNICEF –APO, Communication 
99412-492-30-13 
99412-492-17-82 
amollazade@unicef.org
www.unicef.org/azerbaijan
19 
Firuza Amirova 
“Our Home” NGO 
99412-440 63 30 
 
20 
Sevil Yuzbashova 
“For Clean Caspian” -NGO 
99412- 430-51 73 
 
Page  50
5
0
A
n
n
e
x
2
C
O
M
P
A
R
I
S
O
N
O
F
D
I
S
P
O
S
A
L
M
E
T
H
O
D
S
F
O
R
A
N
I
M
A
L
W
A
S
T
E
S
G
E
N
E
R
A
T
E
D
F
R
O
M
A
V
I
A
N
I
N
F
L
U
E
N
Z
A
O
U
T
B
R
E
A
K
S
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
O
P
T
I
O
N
1
:
B
U
R
I
A
L
I
N
A
P
I
T
D
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
o
f
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
/
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
a
p
i
t
a
n
d
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
E
x
c
a
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
b
u
r
i
a
l
p
i
t
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
i
n
a
d
e
e
p
b
u
r
i
a
l
p
i
t
·
C
o
v
e
r
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
w
i
t
h
s
o
i
l
(
a
b
o
u
t
4
0
c
m
)
t
o
:
(
i
)
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
r
i
s
i
n
g
o
u
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
i
t
,
(
i
i
)
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
s
c
a
v
e
n
g
e
r
s
d
i
g
g
i
n
g
u
p
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
(
i
i
i
)
h
e
l
p
f
i
l
t
e
r
o
u
t
o
d
o
r
s
,
a
n
d
(
i
v
)
a
b
s
o
r
b
t
h
e
f
l
u
i
d
s
o
f
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
.
·
A
d
d
i
n
g
a
n
u
n
b
r
o
k
e
n
l
a
y
e
r
o
f
s
l
a
k
e
d
l
i
m
e
[
C
a
(
O
H
)
2
]
t
o
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
b
e
i
n
g
u
n
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
b
y
c
a
r
n
i
v
o
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
a
r
t
h
w
o
r
m
s
a
f
t
e
r
p
i
t
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
(
l
i
m
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
l
a
c
e
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
o
n
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
i
n
w
e
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
s
l
o
w
s
,
a
n
d
m
a
y
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
,
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
)
·
C
l
o
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
p
i
t
t
o
g
r
o
u
n
d
l
e
v
e
l
w
i
t
h
s
o
i
l
(
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
2
m
e
t
e
r
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
i
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
i
n
t
o
t
a
l
)
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
,
b
o
r
e
s
,
a
n
d
d
u
g
w
e
l
l
s
·
H
e
i
g
h
t
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
(
t
h
e
b
a
s
e
o
f
t
h
e
p
i
t
m
u
s
t
b
e
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
1
m
a
b
o
v
e
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
)
·
S
l
o
p
e
o
f
t
h
e
l
a
n
d
a
t
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
t
o
t
h
e
n
e
a
r
e
s
t
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
(
d
r
a
i
n
a
g
e
t
o
a
n
d
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
p
i
t
)
·
S
o
i
l
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
p
u
b
l
i
c
l
a
n
d
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
r
o
a
d
s
)
·
P
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
(
f
o
r
o
d
o
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
)
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
s
p
a
c
e
f
o
r
t
e
m
p
o
r
a
r
y
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
f
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
e
d
s
o
i
l
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
b
y
d
i
g
g
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
o
r
)
B
u
r
i
a
l
S
i
t
e
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
:
T
h
r
e
e
(
3
)
m
o
n
t
h
s
a
f
t
e
r
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
,
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
t
o
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
a
n
y
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
e
p
a
g
e
)
a
n
d
t
a
k
e
c
o
r
r
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
-
R
e
l
a
t
e
d
W
a
s
t
e
/
W
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
T
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
:
·
A
n
y
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
f
r
o
m
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
/
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
e
f
o
r
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
.
·
U
s
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
a
l
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
P
P
E
)
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
a
n
d
r
e
s
c
u
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
i
f
t
h
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
f
a
l
l
s
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
p
i
t
)
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
/
W
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
a
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
S
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
S
i
t
e
:
I
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
a
n
o
f
f
-
s
i
t
e
f
o
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
,
t
h
e
n
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
e
a
k
-
p
r
o
o
f
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
l
,
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
f
t
e
r
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
s
i
t
e
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
S
a
f
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
i
f
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
m
e
t
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
c
a
n
b
e
a
v
o
i
d
e
d
i
f
b
u
r
i
a
l
c
a
n
b
e
d
o
n
e
o
n
s
i
t
e
·
L
o
w
c
o
s
t
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
L
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
b
e
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
o
r
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
·
I
f
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
a
n
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
s
i
t
e
i
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
,
t
h
e
n
:
(
i
)
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
,
(
i
i
)
h
i
g
h
e
r
c
o
s
t
s
f
o
r
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
i
f
s
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
Page  51
5
1
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
·
A
n
y
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
/
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
s
a
f
e
l
y
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
d
O
P
T
I
O
N
2
:
O
P
E
N
A
I
R
B
U
R
N
I
N
G
(
C
R
E
M
A
T
I
O
N
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
o
p
e
n
a
i
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
D
i
g
g
i
n
g
t
r
e
n
c
h
e
s
,
w
h
i
c
h
a
c
t
a
s
a
i
r
v
e
n
t
s
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
p
y
r
e
(
w
o
o
d
)
o
n
t
o
p
o
f
t
r
e
n
c
h
e
s
(
u
p
w
i
n
d
,
a
t
r
i
g
h
t
a
n
g
l
e
t
o
t
h
e
p
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
)
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
o
p
p
o
s
i
t
e
s
i
d
e
P
o
u
r
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
(
e
.
g
.
k
e
r
o
s
e
n
e
)
o
n
t
o
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
n
d
p
y
r
e
a
n
d
s
t
a
r
t
i
n
g
f
i
r
e
(
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
s
u
p
p
l
y
o
f
f
u
e
l
m
u
s
t
b
e
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
)
.
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
d
v
e
r
s
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
o
f
h
e
a
t
,
s
m
o
k
e
o
r
o
d
o
r
o
n
n
e
a
r
b
y
p
e
o
p
l
e
,
i
n
f
r
a
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
(
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
,
u
n
d
e
r
g
r
o
u
n
d
a
n
d
a
e
r
i
a
l
u
t
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
,
r
o
a
d
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
a
n
d
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
t
r
e
e
s
)
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
t
o
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
a
n
d
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
t
h
e
f
i
r
e
a
n
d
f
o
r
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
o
f
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
·
T
h
e
a
s
h
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
b
u
r
i
e
d
a
n
d
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
s
t
o
r
e
d
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
·
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
·
M
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
f
i
r
e
b
r
e
a
k
a
r
o
u
n
d
t
h
e
p
y
r
e
(
c
o
n
s
u
l
t
l
o
c
a
l
f
i
r
e
b
r
i
g
a
d
e
s
o
r
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
a
d
v
i
c
e
)
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
a
n
d
i
f
f
i
r
e
s
p
r
e
a
d
s
a
r
o
u
n
d
)
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
,
a
n
d
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
·
L
o
w
c
o
s
t
,
c
o
m
p
a
r
e
d
t
o
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
t
i
o
n
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
f
c
o
m
b
u
s
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
s
i
n
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
,
e
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
l
y
u
n
d
e
r
a
d
v
e
r
s
e
a
t
m
o
s
p
h
e
r
i
c
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
(
w
i
n
d
,
p
r
e
c
i
p
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
)
·
I
t
i
s
n
o
t
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
t
o
e
a
s
i
l
y
v
e
r
i
f
y
t
h
a
t
a
l
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
a
r
e
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
i
n
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
c
o
m
b
u
s
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
·
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
o
p
e
n
a
i
r
b
u
r
n
i
n
g
(
P
M
,
C
O
2
)
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
a
s
h
f
r
o
m
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
s
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
f
o
r
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
·
E
x
p
e
n
s
i
v
e
t
h
a
n
o
p
t
i
o
n
1
(
b
u
r
i
a
l
)
O
P
T
I
O
N
3
:
C
O
M
P
O
S
T
I
N
G
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
a
c
t
i
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
l
i
t
t
e
r
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
a
e
r
o
b
i
c
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
.
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
M
u
s
t
b
e
d
o
n
e
a
t
t
h
e
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
f
a
r
m
i
n
a
s
e
c
u
r
e
a
r
e
a
n
o
t
a
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
l
e
b
y
o
t
h
e
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
(
s
u
c
h
a
s
b
i
r
d
s
,
r
o
d
e
n
t
s
,
c
a
t
s
,
o
r
d
o
g
s
)
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
f
o
r
m
a
n
u
r
e
a
n
d
l
i
t
t
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
·
C
a
n
b
e
u
n
d
e
r
t
a
k
e
n
w
i
t
h
i
n
s
h
e
d
s
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
w
i
s
e
o
n
s
i
t
e
t
o
Page  52
5
2
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
o
f
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
d
e
p
e
n
d
s
o
n
:
(
i
)
p
r
o
p
e
r
n
u
t
r
i
e
n
t
m
i
x
[
c
a
r
b
o
n
-
t
o
-
n
i
t
r
o
g
e
n
(
C
:
N
)
r
a
t
i
o
o
f
2
0
:
1
t
o
3
5
:
1
;
c
a
r
b
o
n
-
t
o
-
p
h
o
s
p
h
o
r
u
s
(
C
:
P
)
r
a
t
i
o
o
f
1
0
0
:
1
t
o
1
5
0
:
1
i
s
d
e
s
i
r
a
b
l
e
)
;
(
i
i
)
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
(
4
0
-
6
0
%
)
;
(
i
i
i
)
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
(
5
5
-
6
0
o
C
)
,
a
n
d
(
i
v
)
p
H
(
6
.
5
-
7
.
2
)
.
C
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
P
i
l
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
w
i
t
h
o
t
h
e
r
b
u
l
k
y
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
o
r
n
o
n
-
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
,
s
u
c
h
a
s
w
o
o
d
c
h
i
p
s
,
s
a
w
d
u
s
t
,
s
t
r
a
w
b
e
d
d
i
n
g
,
t
o
a
l
l
o
w
f
o
r
p
r
o
p
e
r
a
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
f
i
l
t
e
r
(
n
o
t
w
h
o
l
e
p
l
a
s
t
i
c
)
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
p
r
e
s
s
i
n
g
o
r
c
o
m
p
a
c
t
i
n
g
.
P
i
l
i
n
g
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
e
x
c
e
e
d
a
b
o
u
t
3
.
5
m
i
n
w
i
d
t
h
a
n
d
2
m
i
n
h
e
i
g
h
t
.
·
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
t
r
e
a
t
i
n
g
a
n
y
r
u
n
o
f
f
w
a
t
e
r
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
·
K
e
e
p
i
n
g
t
h
e
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
p
l
a
c
e
f
o
r
s
e
v
e
r
a
l
w
e
e
k
s
(
w
h
i
l
e
a
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
o
f
5
5
-
6
0
o
C
i
s
a
t
t
a
i
n
e
d
w
i
t
h
i
n
1
0
d
a
y
s
)
·
A
f
t
e
r
s
e
v
e
r
a
l
w
e
e
k
s
a
s
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
s
d
e
c
r
e
a
s
e
t
o
a
b
o
u
t
4
5
-
5
0
o
C
,
m
i
x
i
n
g
t
h
e
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
w
i
t
h
i
n
t
h
e
p
i
l
e
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
p
r
e
s
s
i
n
g
(
P
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
d
a
r
k
i
n
c
o
l
o
r
w
i
t
h
m
i
n
i
m
a
l
f
o
u
l
o
d
o
r
.
)
U
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
s
o
l
e
l
y
s
o
i
l
a
m
e
n
d
m
e
n
t
o
n
l
y
o
n
t
h
e
l
a
n
d
o
f
a
n
i
m
a
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
u
n
i
t
.
·
P
r
o
x
i
m
i
t
y
t
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
(
m
u
s
t
b
e
a
w
a
y
)
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
v
o
i
d
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
·
N
o
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
M
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
p
t
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
m
a
n
y
d
a
y
s
i
n
c
o
l
d
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
a
r
e
a
s
/
s
e
a
s
o
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
(
o
r
m
a
y
b
e
c
o
s
t
l
y
)
·
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
f
i
d
e
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
n
o
t
a
c
h
i
e
v
e
d
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
i
f
t
h
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
i
s
n
o
t
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
s
e
c
u
r
e
d
/
i
s
o
l
a
t
e
d
·
I
t
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
t
o
e
a
s
i
l
y
v
e
r
i
f
y
t
h
a
t
a
l
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
a
r
e
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
O
P
T
I
O
N
5
:
I
N
C
I
N
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
(
F
I
X
E
D
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
a
n
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
S
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
i
n
a
f
l
o
o
d
p
l
a
i
n
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
·
H
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
u
p
w
i
n
d
o
f
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
(
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
m
u
s
t
c
h
a
n
g
e
t
h
e
i
r
P
P
E
b
e
f
o
r
e
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
)
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
·
O
v
e
r
9
5
%
w
a
s
t
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
Page  53
5
3
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
·
C
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
,
w
i
t
h
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
o
f
t
h
e
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
(
u
s
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
a
i
r
)
a
t
a
h
i
g
h
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
)
t
o
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
t
t
h
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
t
h
e
p
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
(
f
o
r
o
d
o
r
s
b
e
f
o
r
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
)
T
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
:
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
t
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
o
f
8
5
0
o
C
a
n
d
w
i
t
h
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
c
e
t
i
m
e
o
f
2
s
e
c
o
n
d
s
.
T
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
u
s
t
b
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
d
a
n
d
r
e
c
o
r
d
e
d
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
n
a
u
x
i
l
i
a
r
y
b
u
r
n
e
r
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
b
e
s
w
i
t
c
h
e
d
o
n
w
h
e
n
t
h
e
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
f
a
l
l
s
b
e
l
o
w
8
5
0
o
C
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
f
e
e
d
s
y
s
t
e
m
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
e
d
t
o
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
·
S
i
t
e
s
e
c
u
r
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
a
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
b
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
(
s
u
c
h
a
s
b
i
r
d
s
,
r
o
d
e
n
t
s
,
i
n
s
e
c
t
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
v
e
r
m
i
n
)
·
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
r
e
a
s
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
T
h
e
s
e
a
r
e
a
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
a
b
e
l
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
e
d
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
.
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
t
o
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
s
t
o
r
m
m
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
f
r
o
m
s
p
i
l
l
a
g
e
o
r
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
a
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
,
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
)
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
/
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
,
s
a
f
e
t
y
a
n
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
·
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
,
w
i
t
h
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
s
a
n
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
/
W
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
S
i
t
e
:
W
h
e
n
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
r
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
f
i
x
e
d
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
,
t
h
e
n
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
e
a
k
-
p
r
o
o
f
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
t
h
e
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
l
/
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
f
t
e
r
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
S
i
t
e
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
x
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
w
h
i
c
h
m
a
y
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
c
o
u
n
t
r
y
·
H
i
g
h
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
c
o
s
t
·
H
i
g
h
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
o
s
t
(
e
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
l
y
f
u
e
l
c
o
s
t
)
·
S
o
m
e
s
p
a
r
e
p
a
r
t
s
m
a
y
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
(
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
t
i
m
e
o
f
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
)
·
H
i
g
h
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
·
S
c
r
u
t
i
n
i
z
e
d
a
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
(
r
e
c
o
r
d
k
e
e
p
i
n
g
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
T
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
m
a
y
b
e
t
o
o
f
a
r
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
,
r
e
q
u
i
r
i
n
g
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
v
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
:
(
i
)
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
,
a
n
d
(
i
i
)
h
i
g
h
e
r
c
o
s
t
s
f
o
r
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
P
M
,
S
O
2
,
C
O
2
)
Page  54
5
4
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
O
P
T
I
O
N
6
:
I
N
C
I
N
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
(
M
O
B
I
L
E
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
a
n
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
(
u
s
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
a
i
r
)
a
t
a
h
i
g
h
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
)
t
o
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
t
t
h
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
T
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
:
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
t
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
o
f
8
5
0
o
C
a
n
d
w
i
t
h
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
c
e
t
i
m
e
o
f
2
s
e
c
o
n
d
s
.
T
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
u
s
t
b
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
d
a
n
d
r
e
c
o
r
d
e
d
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
n
a
u
x
i
l
i
a
r
y
b
u
r
n
e
r
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
b
e
s
w
i
t
c
h
e
d
o
n
w
h
e
n
t
h
e
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
f
a
l
l
s
b
e
l
o
w
8
5
0
o
C
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
f
e
e
d
s
y
s
t
e
m
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
e
d
t
o
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
·
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
r
e
a
s
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
T
h
e
s
e
a
r
e
a
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
v
e
n
t
i
l
a
t
e
d
,
l
a
b
e
l
e
d
,
a
n
d
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
e
d
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
.
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
a
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
(
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
m
u
s
t
c
h
a
n
g
e
t
h
e
i
r
P
P
E
b
e
f
o
r
e
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
)
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
,
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
)
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
/
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
,
s
a
f
e
t
y
a
n
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
·
O
v
e
r
9
5
%
w
a
s
t
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
A
v
o
i
d
s
t
h
e
n
e
e
d
t
o
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
t
h
e
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
i
.
e
.
r
e
d
u
c
e
d
r
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
c
o
m
p
a
r
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
f
i
x
e
d
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
c
a
s
e
)
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
x
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
w
h
i
c
h
m
a
y
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
c
o
u
n
t
r
y
·
H
i
g
h
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
c
o
s
t
·
H
i
g
h
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
o
s
t
·
S
o
m
e
s
p
a
r
e
p
a
r
t
s
m
a
y
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
(
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
t
i
m
e
o
f
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
)
·
H
i
g
h
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
·
S
c
r
u
t
i
n
i
z
e
d
a
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
(
r
e
c
o
r
d
k
e
e
p
i
n
g
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
i
s
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
:
(
i
)
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
o
f
e
x
p
o
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
i
.
e
.
t
h
e
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
)
t
o
d
a
m
a
g
e
/
t
o
t
a
l
l
o
s
s
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
a
n
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
(
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
d
b
y
Page  55
5
5
D
E
S
C
R
I
P
T
I
O
N
E
N
V
I
R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
S
A
F
E
T
Y
C
O
N
S
I
D
E
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
/
D
I
S
A
D
V
A
N
T
A
G
E
S
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
p
o
o
r
r
o
a
d
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
,
s
e
v
e
r
e
w
e
a
t
h
e
r
,
e
t
c
.
)
,
a
n
d
(
i
i
)
h
i
g
h
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
o
f
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
b
y
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
P
M
,
S
O
2
,
C
O
2
)
Page  56
56
 
