Doemat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
,. 1416- SWv)
Reupt N. P-3649-BHU
REPORT AND RE MD
OF THE
PRESIDEIT OF TE
I*ITERNATIONAL           ASSOC=MO
TO THE
ECUTIVE DIRCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREIT
IN AN AN(!OCT OF SDRs 2.8 MIILIQN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
FOR A
TECHrNCAL ASSISTANCE EPORT
September 28, 1963
~=.td:La                   Zbs Ww  m dmi wM-s    Wedi-E .kaskw_



CURRENCY EQIIVAI
US$1               Ngultru  9.5 la
Nu 1          =   US$0.105
Nu 100,000    =  US$10,526
Nu 1,000,000  =   US$1,052,632
ABBREVIATIONS
UNDP   -   United Nations Developmeut Program
UNICEF -   United Niations Children's Energency Fund
WFP    -  World Food Program
DANMIDA -   Danish Iaternational Development Agency
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
UNFPA  -   Uhited Nations Fund for Population Activities
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
/a The Ngultrum (Nu), the currency of Bhutan, is tied on a one-to-one
basis with the Indian Rupee.



BHUTAN                 FOR OMCIAL USE OlNLY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AU) PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Royal Kingdom of Bhutan
Amountt:            Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 2.8 million
(US$3 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:       The Planning Comission
Terms:              Standard IDA terms
Project             The Project would help prepare a pipeline of high priority
Description:       projects suitable for financing by the Government and
external donors. The project would include technical
assistance for pre-investment planning, feasibility
and engineering studies, consIlting and advisory services,
setting up of planning and preparation units, as necessary,
trainixg of personnel, setting up of telex facilities and
procurement of equipment, vehicles and materials.
Estimated Cost:    US$3.5 million equivalent including US$2.5 million in
foreign costs and US$1.0 million in local currency.
US$ Million
Local        Foreign       Total
Financing Plan:    Kingdom of Bhutan   0.5             -           0.5
IDA                 0.5           2.5          3.0
1.0           2.5          3.5
Estimated                                     US$ Million
Disbursements:                    IDA FY84     FY85     FY86
Annual               0.5      1.5      1.0
Cumulative           0.5      2.0      3.0
Risks:              The project initiation and implementation is likely
to be slow due to inadequacy of communications
between Bhutan and the outside world and Bhutan's lack
of familiarity with IDA procedures and processes for
selection of consultants. This is sought to be mintmized
by familiarizing government officials, particularly those
in the Planning Commission, with IDA6 selection procedures
and through close follow up and monitoring by IDA staff.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Not required.
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Map:                IBRD No. 16830R
This document has a restricted distbution and may be used by recapients only in the performanc ofr
their ofrical dutits coftnts may not othrwie be diosed without World Dank authriztio



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATTON OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Royal Kingdom of Bhutan in an amount of Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 2.8 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOM!
2.      The first economic report entitled, "'hutan: Development in a
Himalayan Kingdom" (Report No. 4307-BHU dated April 7, 1983) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 21, 1983. Country data are shown in
Annex I.
Country Background
3.      Bhutan is a small and landlocked Buddhist kingdom in the eastern
Himalaya. It has an area of about 46,500 sq km and is bordered by the Tibet
region of China and the Indian states of Sikkim, West Bengal, Assam and
Arunachal Pradesh. The border with China is a traditional one following for
the most part the main ridge of the Himalaya; that with India was negotiated
in a series of treaties with Britain in the nineteenth century. It mostly
follows the southern foothills of the Himalayas, which rise abruptly from the
Brahmaputra plains. The relatively remote location, rugged terrain, and
formidable natural borders coupled with a strong sense of independence made
it easy for Bhutan to remain in isolation until about 1960.
4.      The terrain of Bhutan is some of the most rugged in the world. The
land rises from an altitude of less than 160 m above sea level in the south
to over 7,000 m less than 100 kilometers to the north, and is characterized
in between by steadily rising hills cut by deep river valleys. The climate
is correspondingly extreme, ranging from the hot and humid sub-tropical
conditions of the southern foothills to the perpetual ice and snow of the
high Himalaya.  Most of the population lives in the hills of the so-called
"inner Himalaya," between altitudes of about 1,000 m to 3,000 m, which is
generally temperate in climate and has a number of relatively broad river
valleys. These, along with some sections of flatland below the southern
foothills, account for most of the readily cultivable land in Bhutan. Only
about 5% of the land is cultivated or inhabited, while about 70Z remains
under natural forest cover. Most of the remaining land is seasonal grazing
land or under perpetual snow.



-2-
5.      Prior to 1907, Bhutan was a theocracy with full power, in principle,
resting in the hands of the Shabdung, the head lama. However, over time the
power of the Shabdung and the monastic establishment over secular matters
declined, and there was constant turmoil as the governors of various regions
competed for power. But in 1907 a governor of sufficient strength emerged to
unify the country under a hereditary monarchy. Thus, Ugen Wangchuck became
the firat Druk Gyalpo, or king of Bhutan and the present king, His Majesty
Jigme Singye Wangchuck, is the fourth monarch.
6.      The first two monarchs concentrated on centralizing authority around
the monarchy, but the third king decided that over the longer run it was
desirable that Bhutan evolve into a constitutional monarchy. Thus, in 1953,
the National Assembly was formed. It currently comprises 100 representatives
of the people, 10 representatives of the monastic establishment, some 40
government officials appointed by the King and a speaker. The Assembly
convenes twice yearly and its resolutions are binding on the monarchy,
although the King has the right to formally address the National Assembly and
ask them to reconsider. In practice, this has never happened - the people of
Bhutan are highly dedicated to their monarchy, and issues are inevitably
resolved before a vote is taken. To assist in governing, the late king also
created in 1965 a nine member Royal Advisory Council, and in 1968, a Cabinet
along with the first government ministries. Today, the government comprises
six Ministries - Finance; Home Affairs; Foreign Affairs; Trade, Industry, and
Forests; Communications and Tourism; and Development. Most development
sectors operate as departments under the Ministry of Development. For inter-
nal administration, Bhutan is divided into 18 districts, with the governors
of each district being appointed by the King and reporting to the Ministry of
Rome Affairs. Although its power has declined, the monastic establishment
continues to play an important role, and religion continues to be one of the
strongest forces of national unity.   -
7.      In 1949, following the departure of Britain from the sub-continent
Bhutan signed a treaty with India which confirmed, as was the case with
Britain in prior years, Indian non-interference in internal Bhutanese affairs
and Bhutanese agreement to be guided by Indian advice in the conduct of its
external affairs. Bhutan's principal external ties had been with Tibet in
the north, because of a common heritage based on Mahayana (lamaistic)
Buddhism and major trade ties - foodgrains from Bhutan being exchanged for
wool and salt from Tibet. However, the Tibetan uprising of 1959 and
Sino-Indian border war of 1962 forced Bhutan to close its borders to the
north and to align itself with India in the south.  In 1959, Bhutan began
accepting Indian offers of economic assistance and started building its first
road link from the Indian border to Paro and Thimphu in the north. Since
then, Bhutanese relations with India have been close, and almost all the
development effort to date has been financed with Indian grant aid. Bhutan
has been gradually expanding its international ties - in 1962 it joined the
Colombo Plan; in 1969, the Universal Postal Union; and in 1971, the United
Nations. In 1981, Bhutan joined the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank Group; and in 1982, the Asian Development Bank. Besides India,
Bhutan also has full diplomatic relations with Bangladesh, which it was the
second country to recognize in 1971. In 1982, Bhutan also opened trade
consulates in Hong Kong and Singapore.



-3-.~
8.      Bhutan is well endowed with natural resources, and for most of them
and their products, there are ready markets in neighboring countries. Bhutanl
also has substantial hydro-power potential estimated at about 20,000 MW.
Domnestic small-scale hydro plants generate only about 4 MW of power, but a
336 MW hydro-power project at Chukha in western Bhutan is expected to be
commissioned in late 1984. The project cost of about US$200 million is being
financed by the Government of India while the electricity generated in excess
of Bhutan's domestic needs would be sold to India. Bhutan's other great
natural resource is its forests. At present, extraction is only a small
fraction of the annual forest increment, while some of the forest is begin-
ning to decay of overage. There is thus great potential for forest-based
exports from Bhutan; however care will have to be taken to ensure that the
deforestation-related problems which plague other areas of the Himalayas do
not arise in Bhutan. A major constraint to the exploration of the forests is
inadequate transport infrastructure; thus, while higher extraction for the
country as a whole can easily be sustained, the more accessible forests,
especially in the south, have probably been over-exploited. Bhutan also has
deposits of certain minerals including limestone, dolomite, graphite, gypsum,
lead, zinc, copper, and coal, but for the most part they are of relatively
low quality and/or are inaccessable.
Economic Background
9.      Given Bhutan's long isolation, it is not surprising that the economy
is at a very early stage of development, and that even some basic economic
and demographic information are unavailable. However, Government is becoming
increasingly aware of these gaps and has recently undertaken several major
statistical efforts, including an agricultural survey, nutrition surveys, and
a livestock census. The Planning Commission has also recently prepared a set
of national accounts estimates. A population census is also underway which
should answer the major demographic unknowns, including the population which
is officially estimated at 1.2 million. The population growth rate is
estimated at 2% per annum.
10.     The economy of Bhutan is still highly subsistence-oriented and
centered around agriculture. It is also overwhelmingly rural, with the two
largest towns - Thimphu, the capital; and Phnntsholing, the main gateway town
- each having a population of less than 20,000. Based on the recent 1980/81
Planning Commission estimates of the national accounts and the official
population estimate, the per capita GDP of Bhutan amounts to about US$110,
one of the lowest in the world. It would appear, however, that Bhutan's
overall standard of living is higher than indicated by this figure. The
overall population-land ratio is lower than in neighboring countries and
nutrition surveys currently underway indicate an average calorie per capita
of about 2,500 per day, some 25% higher than for South Asia as a whole.
Literacy is estimated at only 10%, infant mortality is high and life
expectancy, as a result, is a low 43 years (compared to about 50 years for
South Asia as a whole).
11.     The national accounts estimates indicate that agriculture and animal
husbandry account for almost half of GDP, and together t ese act vit es
provide the livelihood for about 95% of the population.  Landlessness is not
a major problem, and farmland appears to be reasonably equitably distributed.
According to the recent agricultural survey, net foodgrain production



-4-
amounted to 125,000 MT in 1981/82, requiring about 25,000 MT of rice being
imported from India to meet needs. Historically, Bhutan had been self-
sufficient in foodgrain and even exported to Tibet, and, therefore, it should
be a high government priority to once again achieve full self-sufficiency.
Maize is the predominant foodgrain accounting for almost half of total
production, and is grown mainly in eastern Bhutan under rainfed conditions.
Paddy, which accounts for about 35% of production is the main crop in western
Bhutan, and is grown at altitudes as high as 2,500 m. Wheat and other
foodgrains are grown at even higher altitudes. Other important crops include
chillies, pulses, and mustard seeds at lower altitudes, and potatoes at
higher elevations. In recent years, cash crops such as apples, oranges, and
cardamom have emerged, especially in southern and western Bhutan where
marketing is easier. Although the forestry sector accounted for 151 of CDP
in 1980/81, this was probably low by historical standards. In 1979, realiz-
ing the importance of properly managing its valuable forest resources, the
Government gave the Department of Forests the sole right to extract logs for
commercial purposes, and placed restrictions on the export of logs and low-
value wood products. A plant for veneer end sawnwood is under construction
at Gedu with UNDP and Kuwait Fund assistance. Industry accounts for only
about 5% of GDP, due to the small domestic market and the shortage of domes-
tic entrepreneurial capacity. Three relatively large industries - a 100,000
MT capacity cement factory given to Bhutan by India, a distillery complex,
and a joint sector fruit processing plant account for the bulk of the value-
added.  Other smaller industries include sawmills and furniture, matches,
candles, soap and handicrafts. Services account for the remaining 30% of
GDP, with more than half originating in the public sector.
12.     Economic ties between India and Bhutan are strong.  Indian financial
and technical assistance is helping Bbutan implement most of its development
activities, while almost all of Bhutan's trade is conducted with India. A
state of free trade exists between the two countries. Imports from India
consist mainly of essentials - petroleum products, rice, metal products,
machinery, truck chassis, and the like. Many of these are controlled items
in India, and exports to Bhutan are supplied under mutually agreed quotas.
Exports to India consist primarily of agricultural products, timber, and
cement. The main export to third countries is cardamom, and the main import,
automobiles and spare parts. The Indian rupee circulates freely alongside
the ngultrum in Bhutan and accounts for about 90% of the currency in
circulation. Over time, Government policy is to convert entirely to the
ngultrum. Apart from the recently established Royal Monetary Authority which
will gradually assume central banking functions, the banking system consists
of one commercial bank, the Bank of Bhutan, which is owned jointly by the
State Bank of India and the Royal Government. Other financial institutions
are the Royal Insurance Corporation and the Unit Trust, both have been
actively involved in making commercial loans. Trade and transit to third
countries through India is governed by a Trade and Commerce treaty signed in
1972 and amended in 1979. The treaty expired in 1982 and a new treaty is
currently under negotiation. Due to the good relations between the two
countries, trade and transit matters have not been a significant constraint
to Bhutan's development.



Economic Performance
13.     An important objective is to improve fiscal performance so that
Bhutan can at least cover recurrent expenditures from domestic resources.
Revenues in 1980/81, including the gross receipts of certain government
departmenws, amounted to around 10 of GDP, which is reasonably good con-
sidering Bhutan's early stage of development. The recurrent expenditures
associated with the development effort are beginning to rise rapidly and
unless the Government is able to increase domestic resource mobilization, it
will find itself forced to allocate ever increasing proportions of scarce
development resources to finance recurrent expenditures. The Government is
conscious of this, and one of the main reasons for undertaking the proposed
new industrial projects is to provide a basis for generating future revenues.
It also recently took measures to reduce recurrent expenditures and increase
the efficiency of resource use. In 1981/82, an 8% reduction in the public
sector work force was achieved. This move was supported by three major
fiscal reforms. First, in 1981/82, the civil budget (which had mainly been
financed from domestic resources and administered by the Ministry of Finance)
and the development budget (financed by the annual Government of India grant
and overseas aid and administered by the Planning Commission) were con-
solidated into a single budget administered by the Ministry of Finance.
Second, in 1982/83, government finances were reorganized to function through
two accounts - one for the release of expenditures, and a second for the
deposit of revenues. Previously, departments maintained their own accounts,
which tended to slow down the flow of revenues and often resulted in unspent
funds sitting idle in departmental expenditure accounts. Finally, many
service functions which had operated as government departments (e.g., public
transport, government printing, and tourism) were, as of 1982/83, instructed
to function on commercial lines. These services, as well as existing large-
scale commercial units would be subject to a 30% profits tax.
14.     Bhutan has been consistently running an overall surplus on its over-
seas transactions, mainly due to receipts from tourism and foreign aid. In
1981/82, the overall surplus amounted to US$2.9 million and foreign exchange
reserves stood at US$7.8 million. It is, however, difficult to determine the
balance of payments with India for a variety of reasons - including the
bilateral free trade; the long, common, often unmonitored border; and the
fact that an unknown quantity of Indian rupees circulate freely in Bhutan.
But based on rupee holdings of the Bank of Bhutan, it would appear that
Bhutan has in recent years run an overall surplus with India as well. Bhutan
also has no external debt problem. The only debts Bhutan has incurred so far
have been a loan equivalent to 40% of the cost of the Chukha hydro-power
project, but this loan will effectively be paid for with electricity, and an
IFAD loan of US$6.9 million which is just beginning to disburse. In this
context, the primary role of external assistance in Bhutan is to enable an
increase in the overall level of investment by supplementing the Government's
own efforts to increase domestic savings, and to provide technical assistance
to help Bhutan develop modern and efficient administrative procedures as well
as to identifying and preparing investment projects for foreign financing.



-6-
PART II - BRUTAN S DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Growth of the Planning Process
15.     In 1959, with assistance from India, Bhutan embarked on the prepara-
tion of a Five-Year Economic Development Plan. Since then Bhutan has com-
pleted four Five-Year Plans (1961/62-1980/81) focusing mainly on development
of basic economic and social infrastructure. Despite their formal sounding
nature, development plans up to about 1971 were mainly only frameworks within
which various often ad-hoc development efforts were undertaken. These plans
were almost entirely financed by annual grants from the Government of India,
which are provided on a cash basis and which Bhutan has been free to allocate
as it chooses. In 1982/83, this grant would amount to Rs 250 million (about
US$26 million). The Plan expenditures (excluding expenditures by ministries
not directly involved in development work) amounted to Nu 107 million in the
First Plan, Nu 202 million in the Second, Nu 475 million in the Third, and Nu
1106 million in the Fourth. Expenditure on development has, therefore, shown
a very rapid rate of increase, more than doubling every five years. The
Fifth Plan 1981/82-1986/87 is currently underway. It envisions more than
tripling of development expenditures, including outlays on industrial
projects.
16.     The first four plans showed a steady growth in the sophistication
of the planning process and in development priorities. In the First Plan,
almost two-thirds of the plan outlay were devoted to road development with
education and manpower development receiving about 9Z. Priorities widened
under the Second Plan with expenditure on education and manpower development
increasing substantially and agriculture and animal husbandry also receiving
14% of the Plan allocation. The first two Plans placed much emphasis on
roads, to integrate various regions of the country and to link the country
with outside world. As a result, Bhutan now has over 2,000 km of roads, of
which about half are paved, and an internal telecommunications network thst
integrates all major regions of the country. By the time of the Third Plan,
investment priorities had begun changing to reflect more directly productive
activities such as agriculture and industry, and the need to increase social
services like health, education, and water supply. In the Third Plan new
allocations of 5-8X each were made for forestry, power, mining, etc. The
Fourth Plan, however, reflected a major shift from the earlier pattern.
While areas covered earlier remained important, the emphasis shifted to the
development of major natural resources, with forestry accounting for 10% of
the Plan allocation and industry and mining about 16%. This changing pattern
of outlays reflects the Government's confidence that, as a result of basic
development and expansion in the physical and administrative infrastructural
facilities over the Four Plans, it is now appropriate to gradually begin the
exploitation and development of the natural resources of the country to
achieve increasing self dependence.
17.     The Fifth Five-Year Plan is currently underway during which develop-
ment expenditure, excluding some large projects (see below), would double
to Nu 2,210 million. Agriculture, irrigation, and animal husbandry are to
account for 28% of Plan development outlays; roads and other transport
infrastructure, 24%; education, 15%; health, 8%; and telecommunications, 5%.
The above Plan outlays and their sectorwise distribution are somewhat



-7-.
misleading as some large projects such as the Chuckha hydro project, Penden
Cement project, and the Baylegphing Area Development Project in southern
Bhutan are being implemented under the Plan for the reason that India made
available funds specifically for these projects. The Government similarly
proposes to invest, outside the p'an, about Nu 1,600 million in a number of
sizeable resource-based industries, provided the needed additional financing
can be arranged for them.
18.     The Fifth Plan also represents a major change in development
strategy.  Under the Plan, some 50% of plan expenditures, are to be
decentralized and implemented under the district administrations according to
development plans drawn up by the individual districts themselves under
central supervision.  It was felt that this approach would result in develop-
ment being more consistent with locally perceived needs, and a condition for
including projects in the Plan was that the districts provide voluntary labor
required to implement them. This would greatly reduce the cost of most
projects, and enable a greater overall development effort. To help implement
these plans, a large number of line ministerial staff were transferred from
the central to district administrations. The chances of success seem good as
the selected projects are relatively simple and Bhutan has a tradition of
voluntary labor for community purposes. However, a strong central financial
management would be necessary to ensure that district administrations use the
resources efficiently.
19.     As stated earlier, the first two Plans (up to 1970/71) were mainly
financial budgeting exercises rather than carefully worked out frameworks of
development priorities. It was only with the establishment of the Planning
Commission in 1971 and its being entrusted with the preparation of the Third
Plan that planning in the proper sense could be said to have begun. However,
progress was slow because of Planning Commission's small and inexperienced
staff and lack of economic data and information. In 1979, a comprehensive
review of the planning process was undertaken and it was decided that the
Planning Commission, working in consultation with the Ministry of Finance,
would be responsible for preparation of the Plan. The Commission would also
determine Government objectives, policies and priorities and coordinate and
review plan implementation. The Ministry of Finance would prepare the annual
budget within the framework of the Plan and would be responsible for mobi-
lizing internal resources. External resource mobilization would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission has three functional wings: (a) the
Planning division deals with development policies, coordinates implementation
of the plan and is responsible for program and project appraisal; (b) the
Resources Division coordinates activities with the Finance Ministry and
serves as a liaison on all matters relating to international economic
cooperation; and (c) the monitoring and evaluation division for building up
a data base and undertaking special surveys. Due to a shortage of qualified
manpower, however, there is considerable staff overlap between these wings.
The Need for Technical Assistance
20.     A key objective of the Fifth Plan is to increase Bhutan's self-
reliance by strengthening the country's productive base to generate incomes
and mobilize revenues to sustain development. About 35% of Fifth Plan expen-
ditures will be devoted to viable industrial investment opportunities in the



-8-
productive sectors, namely, industry, including forest indtLIstriej, mining,
and power. These undertakings, it is hoped, will result in a major increase
in exports and public revenues. However, there are factors inhibiting the
implementation of this development strategy, namely, an absence of well
formulated projects, shortage of technical expertise and experienced person-
nel within the Government, a weak statistical system and lack of proper
economic data. In order to prepare a number of large-scale resource-based
projects, which have been tentatively identified, the Guvernment sought IDA
assistance to secure necessary consultancy and advisory services.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BHUTAN
21.     Bhutan became a member of the Bank Group in September 1981.  A
program mission to obtain general overview of the country's needs visited
Bhutan in June 1982 and was followed by an economic mission in October 1982.
Since, identification missions for possible projects in the forestry, rural
and urban water supply, and small local resource based industries have
visited Bhutan. Consultancy services were arranged to review prospects of
setting up an industrial development and finance organization to assist
medium and small-scale enterprises.
22.     The lending program for Bhutan includes two projects in PY84 -- the
proposed Technical Assistance Project and a Forest Replantation Project. In
later years, projects tentatively planned are in education, rural and urban
development, communications, power generation and industry. Under the
auspices of UNCTAD, an "Aid Group" type conference met in Geneva in May,
1983. While specific indications of development assistance from other
countries were not made, the meeting provided an international forum for
discussing Bhutan's needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
23.     Assistance from the UN and other international agencies accounted for
about 13% of total external assistance (mainly from India) during the Fourth
Plan period. Apart from UNDP, the other major funding agencies have been
UNICEF, UNFPA, WFP, IFAD, DANIDA, and assistance under the Colombo Plan.
Most of this assistance has been tied to specific projects. While bilateral
agencies and the UNDP are expected to continue to support much of Bhutan's
requirements for technical assistance, yet over the next two or three years
the level of need is beyond that which can be expected of these agencies
particularly because of the financial constraints under which UNDP will be
operating during this period. In order to attract financing from interested
donors as well as IDA, it is necessary to provide funds which would help
prepare a pipeline of high priority projects. The proposed project,
therefore, is intended to supplement the technical assistance funds available
from UNDP and other multilateral and bilateral agencies. There is no
separate appraisal report. A timetable of key events relating to the project
and special conditions are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Thimphu, Bhutan from June 6 to June 10, 1983. The delegation of the Royal



Government of Bhutan was headed by Dasho Lam Penjor, Deputy Minister,
Planning Commission.
Project Objectives and Description
24.     The principal objective of the project is to provide assistance to
the Government of Bhutan in preparing a pipeline of subprojects which are
deemed by the Government to be of high priority in Bhutan's development
effort and help strengthen Bhutan's capacity for project preparation and
implementation. The Government have sought IDA involvement for reasons that
the Association may guide them in establishing development priorities, help
select the most suitable consultants, help guide the work of consultants and
e       provide directions for institution building.  The proposed Credit would
finance the preparation of feasibility studies and design and engineering
work for about 10 high priority investment projects which would attract
financing from bilateral donors and the Association. The project would also
assist in strengthening of institutions responsible for project preparation
and implementation through provision of training of the national staff as the
experts' counterpart and through overseas courses and study tours as
necessary. A provisional list of indicative subprojects is given in
Annex II.
25.     Criteria for the selection of subprojects would require, inter alia,
that recommended proposals are in line with the Government s Development Plan
and IDA's lending strategy in the country ddring the next few years. A
subproject would comprise: (a) a study to provide information required for
the selection of specific subprojects for implementation, or for improvement
of overall economic planning. (b) a feasibility study or other investigation
required for preparing projects suitable for finarcing by IDA or other exter-
nal financing agencies (with priority given to studies of projects believed
likely to be suitable for financing by IDA). Detailed design and engineering
will be undertaken after review of the feasibility study and in consultation
with IDA; (c) technical assistance and staff training program designed to
strengthen institutions foZ project planning and implementation. Further,
a subproject should include adequate arrangements by the executing agencies
to provide office space, counterpart staff and other facilities required for
the subproject to proceed efficiently and to permit the national staff
develop their expertise (Section 3.01(b) and the Schedule to the draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
26.     In order to facilitate start up of the project, and implementation
of the selected subprojects, the first subproject would be for the estab-
lishment of the Project Coordination Cell in the Planning Commission. Under
*       this subptoject funds would be provided for employing short-term consultants,
training of staff and procurement of equipment, materials and vehicles essen-
tial to support the coordination cell and to undertake the studies proposed
to be included in the project. The equipment, inter alia, would include: 6
vehicles and spares, 6 typewriters, 6 calculators, and 2 photocopy machines.
The total allocation for the subproject would be about US$100,000. To
facilitate mobilization, retroactive financing lip to US$50,000 would be
provided to cover expenditures made after June 30, 1983 (Section 2.02(c) of
the draft DCA).



Organization and Implementation
27.    The Planning Commission would be responsible for the overall coor-
dination and munitoring of the project, selection and employment of
consultants, and administration of their contracts. This is considered
desirable in this first project in Bhutan, as it would minimize involvement
of different officials in various agencies and avoid delays and
misunderstandings. The Planning Commission would also be responsible for
screening subprojects submitted by various agencies and for selection of
subprojects in consultation with the Association. The individual subprojects
would be impl-mented by the relevant technical ministries, the Planning
Commission itself or other appropriate government agencies. Consultants
engaged for the subprojects would work directly with the appropriate
Government agencies. The Planning Commission has appointed a Project
Coordinator, whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the
Association (Section 4.01(b) of draft DCA), for ensuring coordination between
the Planning Commission and the implementing agencies.
28.    Some of the main functions of the Project Coordinator would be to:
(a) coordinate selection of subprojects in accordance with the agreed
criteria for subproject eligibility; (b) coordinate and assist with the
recruitment of consultants by: (i) explaining IDA's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (August 1981)" to the Government
agencies implementing the subprojects; (ii) participating in the evaluation
of consultants' proposals; (iii) participating in the negotiations of
consultants' contracts; (iv) coordinating efforts to standardize consultants'
contracts; and (v) ensuring provision of adequate support to consultants
under each subproject; (c) compile, prepare, verify, sign and submit to IDA
withdrawal applications in addition to monitoring disbursement against each
subproject; (d) monitor overall project progress and forward to IDA quarterly
progress reports based on information prepared by the various subproject
implementing agencies; and (e) evaluate overall project achievement and
forward to IDA the Project Completion Report based on information prepared by
the various subproject implementing agencies.
29.    The consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(Section 4.02 of draft DCA). Funds for subprofects would be allocated after
consultants' contracts have been approved by the Association. The
Association and the Planning Commission have reviewed a proposed standard
format for requesting technical assistance, the procedures for obtaining
consultant's services and a standard contract for employment of consultants.
These steps would help minimize delays. While most of the technical assis-
tance would be provided by foreign consultants, the consultants' terms of
reference would emphasize the importance of training local staff so as to
reduce the need for foreign technical assistance in the long term. Qualified
local consultants may be used either independently or in collaboration with
foreign firms.
30.     The present inadequate means of communication between Bhutan and the
outside world affect adversely the whole gamut of activities of the
Government and could also cause inordinate delays in the implementation of
the proposed project unless improvements are effected on an urgent basis.
Currently, only telephone and teleprinter links exist between Bhutan and



-11-
India. Messages from Washington are transmitted by telex to Bhutan's Embassy
in Neu Delhi, India for relying by a radio link to Thimphu, Bhutan, via two
intermediate links. The system is highly susceptible to atmospheric condi-
tions and long breakdowns are experienced from time to time and particularly
during the monsoons. An Indo-Bhutan microwave system is under implementation
and is expected to be completed by early 1984. At present our information in
regard to telecommunications facilities in Bhutan and the Indo-Bhutan
microwave system is very limited. It is expected that this system could
operate telex lines between Thimphu and the nearest telex exchange in India.
This would be a least cost, short term solution for improving communications.
Upto 10 telex lines may be installed providing the telex subscribers in
Thimphu, primarily the Government, the basic telex facilities and should not
*      cost more than about US$100,000.  IDA would provide, under the initial sub-
project proposed in para 26 (but not financed retroactively) US$100,000 to
cover the purchase of teleprinter machines and ancillary equipment which will
be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Further, consultancy
services would be arranged to review existing systems in Bhutan and India and
recommend ways and means to improve outside communications.
Estimated Cost and Financing
31.     Although the proposed subprojects have not been identified, it is
expected that about 10 subprojects would be financed under the proposed
credit of US$3.0 million equivalent, or about 86% of total project costs of
US$3.5 million equivalent, of which US$2.5 million is estimated to be in
foreign exchange and US$1.0 million in local currency. The proposed IDA
credit would cover the foreign costs and US$0.5 million of local costs. The
remaining cost of US$0.5 million will be financed by the Government. It is
estimated that the consultant rates for the estimated 400 man-months of
consultancy work would average about US$9,000 per expatriate professional
man-month. I/ However, Consultants from neighboring countries are expected
to cost less, in which case a greater number of subprojects would be
undertaken.
32.     The proposed IDA credit would finance 100% costs of consultants
irrespective of whether they are foreign or local consultants. It would
finance 100% of the cost of training programs associated with the subprojects
as also 100l of the cost of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials
required for carrying out the subprojects. For equipment and materials
procured locally, tbe credit would finance 1002 of ex-fac:ory cost. The
^redit would also finance  OOZ of foreign e: ?enditures incurred in connection
with overseas training and travel of personnel associated with preparation
and implementation of subprojects (Section 2.02 of the droft DCA).
Reimbursement of all expenditures under these categories would be made on
full documentation.
33.     Contracts for equipment and materials valued over US$50,000 equiv-
alent or more would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines. For awards of
1/ Man-month rate includes salary, social and overhead costs and post
adjustment, including international travel and subsistence.



-12-
contract of US$100,000 equivalent or more for equipment and materials IDA's
prior review would be required.  Small contracts estimated to cost under
US$60,000 equivalent, provided that the aggregate would not exceed US$500,000
equivalent, would be let through local procurement procedures which are
acceptable to IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). Disbursements will be
made against prior approved suibprojects.
34.     The Government's contribution to individual subproject costs,
estimated to be about 14Z of total project costs, would normally be the
provision of counterpart staff, office space and supplies and would be
specified in the TOR. The Government's commitment to make these contribu-
tions would be a condition of approval to each subproject.
Accounts and Auditing
35.     The Planning Commission would establish and maintain consolidated
project accounts for all of the proposed project's expenditures and prepare a
quarterly progress report. These accounts and supporting records would be
audited annually by the Royal Audit Departmeat and audit reports would be
submitted promptly to the Association (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
36.     The Project Coordinator would be responsible for monitoring the
subprojects by collecting, reviewing and evaluating information on the for-
mulation and progress of subprojects. Quarterly progress reports would be
forwarded to the Association. The monitoring and evaluation wing of the
Planning Commission would provide him necessary support.
Benefits and Risks
37.     The major benefit of the proposed project would be to build up a
pipeline of projects suitable for financing by the Government, external
donors and the Association. This, in turn, should help Bhutan make more
effective use of domestic and external resources for the development of its
economy. The proposed project would also assist in enhancing project
preparation capabilities of the technical ministries and associated agencies,
and in the long term, reduce dependence on foreign assistance for these
purposes.
38.     There are no major risks in implementation of the project.  There
may be, however, some delays because of (a) difficulties in the identifica-
tion and selection of projects, (b) inexperience with the Bank's selection
procedures, (c) problems in negotiating consultants contracts and (d) general
communications difficulties. To minimize delays, a tentative list of sub-
projects has been agreed during visits by program and technical missions and
during the preparation and negotiations of this project. Further, the
Government and the Association will review proposed standardized procedures
for processing consultants' contracts and ensure careful supervision.



-13-
PART V - LEGAM INSTRMENTS AND AUTHORITY
39.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Royal Government
of Bhutan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
40.     Special Conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III.
41.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMENEDATION
42.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 28, 1983



- 14 -
ARMEX I
Page 1
COUNTr DATA - BHRUTA
A_EL                        POPULATION                       DENSITY (1982)
46.500 sq km              1.2 million (mid-1982)               25 per sq km (1982)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1982)                     HEALTH (1982)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):                 43       Population per Physician         18,100
Crude Death Rate (per '000):                 21       Population per Hospital Bed:      2,000
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births):   147
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                   DISTRIBUTION OF LADD OWNERSHIP
S of National Income - Highest Quintile:    Z.                                            SOOwned by Top 1Ow of Owners
Lovest Quintile      ..           Owned by Smallest 10  of Owners:
ACCESS TO PIPED WATERS (1982)                         ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
r of Population - Urban :                    49       Z of Dwellings - Urban:
Rural :                    6                         Rural:
NUTRITION                                              EDUCATION (1982)
Calorie Intake as Z of Requirement:          ..        Adult Literacy Rate       :         10X
Per Capita Protein Intake (grams                       Primary School Enrollment:          21X
per day):
GDP PER CAPITA IN 1981: USS116
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (1980181)
Value Added
E million       x
Agriculture a/          61.6         47.6
Forestry                20.2         15.6
Industry b/              8.0          6.2
Services cl             39.5        30.6
1Z9.3       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (1981/82)
Yu millIon     2 of CDP at Market Pfice
Revenue and Grants              407.0                  39.9
Total Expenditure               436.8                  42.8
Overall Balance (deficit -)     -29.8                  -2.9
a/ Includes agriculture and animal husbandry.
b/  Includes manufacturing. mining, power, and construction.
c/ Includes communications, transport, tourism, financial services, social
services, rental income, trade, and governtent.
.. Not available.



AZ2D3 I
Page 2
MONEY. CEDIT, AND PRICES
(Fnd-Narch)
1978179      1979/80       1980181       1981/82
(Nu million)
Money and Quasi Money                     57.7         80.0         105.7         145.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector             -62.0        -59.1         -53.6         -78.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             23.7         32.9          28.3          45.9
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of CDP          .,            ..          10.4
Annual Z Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                    12.1         13.5           9.6          10.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             ..          +4.7          +9.3         -46.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector            ..         +38.8         -14.0        +62.2
Consumer Price Index
(1977/78 - 100)                       112.1         127.2         139.4        153.7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1981/82 a/                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1981/82 a/
(US$°000)                                               USSO000      I
Export of Goods                             714.0
Import of Goods                         -3,307.0          Cardamom          614      86.0
Services and Private Transfers (net)      -917.0          Gus rosin          80      11.2
Total Current Account                    -3,510.0         Handicrafts         17      2.4
Official Capital Transfers (net)          6,400.0         Timber              3       0.4
Change in Reserves (decrease -)           2,890.0           Total           714    100.0
RAE OF EXCHANGE bJ
(Annual Average for Fiscal Year)
1978/79
US$1.00       - Ngultrum 8.21
Ngultrum 1.00 - US$0.12
1979/80
US$1.00       - Ngultrum 8.08
Ngultrur 1.00 - US$0.12
1980/81
US$1.00       - Ngultrum 7.89
Ngultrum 1.00 - US$0.13
1981/82
US51.00       - Ngultrum 8.93
Ngultrum 1.00 - US$0.11
a/ With countries other than India.
Al The Ng-ltru-  is freely exchangeable in Bhutan with the TIidia"i rupee on a
one-for-one bi6is.
Not available.
South Asia Programs Department
September 7, 1983



- 16 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A Preliminary List of Projects from which Suitable Subprojects
will be Selected for Technical Assistance for the Preparation of
Feasibility Studies, and Design and Engineering Work on the Basis
of the Needs of Individual Subprojects
1.   Power Generating Plaats (10-20 MW) in South and Eastern Bhutan
Region: One Plant each in the South and West Bhutan
Total Project Cost: Nu 520 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 410 million
Project Duration: 5 years
Project Objectives and Description: The eastern region of Bhutan
forms a rich agricultural and forest belt. At present, limited power
requirements of the region are being met by importing electricity from Assam
in India. The project would help develop agriculture and related activities
and industries based on local raw materials provided adequate electric power
is made available. Therefore, in order to meet the medium term requirements
of power, two medium-sized plants of between 10-20 MW are proposed. The
project will also make available electrical energy to the 500,000 MT capacity
Nanglam Cement Plant, which is being set up in the region.
Resource Requirement: The estimated cost of the two projects is
about iu 520 million including foreign costs of about Nu 410 million to cover
civil works, plant and equipment, machinery, tools and vehicles.
2. Calcium Carbide Project
Region: Western Bhutan
Total Project Cost: Nu 100 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 80 million
Project Duration: 5 years
Project Objectives and Description: The project would help explore
and process the identified limestone deposits of Tala and Chalaila in Western
Bhutan to manufacture Calcium Carbide for export. A calcium carbide plant
would be a suitable diversification in the processing of Bhutan's vast
resources of limestone and dolomite. It is proposed to establish the plant
with a capacity of 12,000 MT per annum near Phuntsholing. The power require-
ment of 5 to 7 MW for the proposed plant will be available from the Chukha
Hydel Project. The annual requirement of 6,000 tons of petroleum coke will
be procured from the nearby oil refineries in India. Substantial demand for



- 17 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
the calcium carbide exists in India, which is at present importing large
quantities from abroad.
Resource Requirements: The project woull cost about Nu 100 million
including foreign cost of Nu 80 million to cover procurement of plant
machinery and establishment of required infrastructure.
3.   Graphite Mining and Beneficiation Project
Region: Ha - Paro (Western Region)
Total Project Cost: Nu 14 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 11.0 million
Project Duration: 1 year
Project Objectives and Description: The project would help quarry
the proven graphite deposits at Chalaila in Western Bhutan and process the
ore for export. The graphite ore available at the Chalaila deposits is of
low grade containing 11% to 13% carbon. According to tests recently
completed, the graphite ore can be beneficiated to 90% purity by the floation
process using suitable frothing agents. Bhutan graphite would have a ready
market in India which is at present importing it from other countries. The
installed capacity of the project would be 15,000 Mr per annum. The project
is expected to have a net return of about Nu 2.0 million annually. In the
long run it will pave the way for setting up a number of graphite based
industries in the country such as the manufacture of graphite crucibles,
pencils, paints and pigments, brushes for motors and generators, electrodes,
lubricants, dry cells, and other carbon articles.
Resource Requirement: The project would cost about Nu 14 million
including foreign cost of Nu 11 million; of this amount a sum of Nu 6 million
would be required for a rope-way for the transportation of the crude ore to
the beneficiation plant.
4.   Gypsum Mining Project
Region: Eastern
Total Project Cost: Nu 10 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 8 million
Project Duration: 3 years
Project Objectives and Description: The project would help exploit
the proven reserves of gypsum for supply to the indigenous cement industry
and for export to neighboring states in India.  Bhutan has estimated reserves
of 78 million tons of high grade gypsum in Pema district, about 25 miles from
the planned cement plant at Nanglam. At present, the existing cement plant
at Gedu and those in the north-eastern states of India are obtaining gypsum
from the state of Rajasthan in Western India, a distance of almost 1,800 km.
These plants can therefore benefit from a local supply which will have
reduced transport costs. The project would mine 100 tons per day in the
initial stages to meet the immediate requirements of these plants and will



ANNEX II
Page 3
be expanded to mine 250 tons a day to meet the future expected demands of
gypsum based industries to be set up in Bhutan.
Resource Requirement: The project would cost about Nu 10 million
including foreign cost of Nu 8 million for equipment and material.
5.    fchanization of Roads Project
Region:  All over the country
Total Project Cost: Nu 26.00 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 18 million
Project Duration: 1 year
Project Objectives and Description: The plan target for road con-
struction is set at 80-90 km per year. The capacity of Public Works
Department is about 50 km per year mainly because of the rough terrain and
lack of equipment and machinery. The project through mechanization of road
construction, will increase the department's capability and will facilitate
achievement of the plan target.
Resource Requirements: The project would cost about Nu 26 million
including foreign cost of Nu 18 million for procurement of tools, read build-
ing machinery and equipment and spare parts.
6.   Forestry Plantation Project
Region: Whole Country
Total Project Cost: Nu 37.5 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 25 million
Project Duration: 5 years
Project Objectives and Description: The project would help restock
denuded forest areas of Bhutan, particularly those areas affected by forest
fires and shifting cultivation. Under the project, forest based industries
would be established to provide economic and infrastructural development in
the backward areas. The Department of Forests has drawn up a modest program
for forest plantations of 7,500 hectares which will be expanded later. In
addition, a countrywide plantation program is also to be carried out in
community forests by village people planting at least 10 trees per household.
Resource Requirement: The total cost of the project is estimated at
Nu 37.5 million including foreign cost of Nu 25 million to cover extraction
machinery, planting equipment, road building equipment and venicles.



- 19 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4
7. Dairy Development and tarketing Project
Region: South-Western Region
Total Project Cost: Wu 25.0 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 17.5 million
Project Duration: 5 years
Project Objectives and Description: The project will help establish
a number of plants to process milk with recombining facilities. The milk
production in the country is expected to increase to about 16.50 million
litres per year, a per capita 38 gm of milk daily. The project would also
develop and organize milk collection centres and provide a proper marketing
system for milk produced by farmers. The project would also help livestock
development.
Resource Requirement: The project would cost about Nu 25 million
including foreign cost of about Nu 18 million to cover costs of pasteuriza-
tion and homogenization plants, dairy processing and recombining equipment,
recombining/processing and bottling unit facilities, livestock vaccines and
supplies, refrigerated vans and diesel operated pickups/trucks.
8. Industrial Development Bank of Bhutan
Region: Country-wide
Total Project Cost: Nu 400 million
Foreign Cost: Nu 300 million
Project Duration: n.a.
Project Objectives and Description: To set up an Industrial
Development Bank for financing industrial development in order to facilitate
the growth of natural resource-based industries in the private, joint and
public sectors. The setting up of such industries will facilitate increasing
the value-added component of Bhutan's natural resources, improve export
earnings and generate revenues for the national exchequer.
The project is important in the context of the Fifth Plan industrial
development programme. As a number of industries planned are to be set up
with external financing, the local currency requirements and national equity
contribution will also have to be met.  In the absence of a major private
sector involvement in industries at present, the Government will have to
raise these resources to meet the local requirements. In addition, some
means of providing the loan component of industrial investment will have to
be found, especially for industries where external financing is not
available. This will particularly be the case for the medium and small-scale
sectors. The existing financial institutions, i.e., the Bank of Bhutan and
the Royal Insurance Corporation of Bhutan, are not capable of taking on a
large long-term lending burden, given their nature, resources and
liabilities. It is also essential that an industrial banking institution
should have the capability of identifying projects and entrepreneurs,
appraising projects, assisting in the identification of technology, equipment



- 20 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5
and supply sources, and in the implementation of projects and marketing. The
Industrial Development Bank has been conceived with this in mind, and in the
context of Bhutan's present state of development, would, in addition to
financing operations, play a strong promotional role. Due to the strong
export orientation that all large industries will have, the Bank will also be
required to provide export credit for industrial products. The setting up of
the Bank is expected to promote industrial development in a big way, includ-
ing that of private industries ancillary to the large public sector
industries. As a first step, the Government has established a cell in the
Royal Monetary Authority.
Resource Requirements: The total resource base initially would be
Nu 400 million, of which Nu 100 million would be the equity. The Royal
Government has resources of Nu 50 million for its equity contribution; the
balance is to be raised 'rom the other national financial institutions. The
debt component is to be raised in the form of soft-term loans from the inter-
national community.
9. Improvement and Expansion of Road Transport
Region: Country-wide
Total Project Cost: Nu 10.0 million
Foreign Cost: 6.0
Project Duration: 6 Years
Project Objectives and Description: The project is designed to bring
efficiency in bus services by acquiring vehicles more suitable to Bhutan's
difficult terrain, enhancing repair and maintenance facilities, operating
buses on new routes, as well as increasing the frequency of bus services on
high density routes. It will thereby help to meet the transportation demands
generated by the accelerated pace of development. The programme will
facilitate the country and permit a greater mobility of man and materials
from place co place.
Road transport by bus is the major means of public conveyance in
Bhutan. With the diversification of economic activities in different parts
of the country, bus services have also been extensively expanded by adding a
number of buses, operating new routes, and intensifying frequency of service
in high-density routes. However, in spite of all these measures, there is a
substantial gap between the demand for bus services and what is presently
available. The Fifth Plan envisages an accelerated socio-economic develop-
ment of the country.  The transportation system plays a crucial and pivotal
role in facilitating this process. Therefore, there is a need for expansion,
intensification and diversification of the existing bus network. The present
project aims at these ends. Under the project, it is proposed to examine
more suitable design features and procure new vehicles and a substantial
quantity of tools, equipment and spares for the repair and maintenance of
vehicles.



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Resource Requirements: The total cost Of the project is estimated at
Nu 5.816 million and includes purchase of 6 vehicles, tools, equipment and
spare parts for training.
10. Education Project
Region: Country-wide
Total Project Cost: Nu 94 million
Project Duration: 3 years
Amount already committed: Nu 1.08 million (OXFAM)
Project Objectives and Description:  The main emphasis during the
Fifth Plan in the education sector is to consolidate and improve the quality
of existing education system. Nevertheless, some expansion of the primary
school system is necessary in order to continue increasing the literacy level
in the country. Requests for almost one hundred new primary schools have
been received from different parts of the country. The present programme is
designed to extend the primary education system in remote areas. New schools
will also be provided in areas where existing facilities are overcrowded and
cannot be further expanded. The main objective is to increase the intake of
students at the primary level in order to improve the general level of educa-
tion countrywide.
With an estimated average growth rate of 10% per annum in enrollment,
the total student population in primary schools will have increased from
33,610 in 1980-81 to 58,300 by the end of the Fifth Plan. A substantial
proportion of the new students will be absorbed into existing schools, in
particular where the facilities at present are being underutilized. However,
to meet the additional requirements, it is proposed to open 21 new primary
schools and add 121 new classrooms to existing schools. Existing primary
schools will be renovated where required. While school buildings will be
constructed with volunteer labor organized by the Dzongkhag administration,
the cost of supervision, construction materials, equipment and teachers will
be borne by the Government. With the new schools, the total number of
primary schools will increase from 119 at the end of the Fourth Plan to 140
by the end of the Fifth Plan. A factor in increasing enrollment is the
incentive of free mid-day meals to students. This will decrease the pressure
on rural families of supporting students during the school term. Under the
mid-day feeding programme, run with assistance from the World Food Programme,
the number of primary schools to be covered would increase from 82 to 121 by
the end of the Fifth Plan.
Resource Requirements: Capital: the total cost of the primary
school programme in the Fifth Plan is Nu 94 million, of which Nu 40.0 million
is required to finance new development. This sum covers the material and
supervision costs, and the cost of 320 additional teachers and other person-
nel required for the expansion programme.



- 22 -                   ANNEX III
BHUTANI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)    Time taken to prepare project:               Three months
(b)    Project prepared by:                         Government of Bhutan
and the Association
(c)    Initial discussion with the Association:   October, 1982
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:              Not scheduled
(e)    Negotiations:                                June 6-10, 1983
(f)    Board Presentation:                          October 18, 1983
(g)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:               December 31, 1983
Section II - Special Implementation Action:
Seminars in Washington, D.C. and in Bhutan (by the visiting nego-
tiating team and Bank staff) were arranged to familiarize off-icials in Bhutan
with Bank procedures with a view to minimize delays in employing consultants
and mobilizing local support services.
Section III - Special Conditions of the Project:
(a) Sub-projects will be selected in accordance with criterif
agreed with IDA (para 25).
(b) The Planning Commission will be responsible for ensuring effective
coordination among the ministries and agencies implementing the
sub-projects.  For this purpose, an officer of the Planning                       a
Commission shall continue to serve as the Project Coordinator
(paras 27 and 28).



PHYSICAL RELIEF              90
~~~~DAS             PAS .w1 Sh INllE X  . 
D-~,,d,~,*,,,*~,,,,<,,i, U A           r       A             A 
-26'__|OfhB'.w_tlSb__l#zSEa7-lVl                                      Lunana
r    B E  r          rt)                                     (e   S(>)1
CHOMO0                Goso
A    LHARI
7314AA_.                        I_
,  WANGDIPHODRANG
,~          ,  PE  °             -#-IJ'TH   PHU            o bunin
,~~~  ( ~~~Drukyel          hi% 
zong         \T ilph
09 8, A~~~~ ~~~~~~orY
C,uHom J_...                               T 
SAMC H  A            V~~~~~~ Chimakothi
21*                                   c.   hukh.SAM                   DaDhug-
/   .~'Somchi SPag!      ntsholing )    \)                                        Iegp'rbhong
g_j. _ _.  * Pg                          \~/'*u ntslegp'
WES T BENGAL
89-                                          I90



IBRD 16830R
TEP'EMBER 1953
BHU-TAN
r                                Paved roads                  A  Elevation points (meters)
Unpaved roads               t  Airport
Roads under construction    69 National capital
Roads under improvement     0  District capitols
Roads proposed under        0  Other towns
Fifth Plan                  0  Selected villages
Rivers                    -District boundaries (Bhutan)
KULA                                             ---State boundaries (India)
-f   755AG                                           ---International boundaries
/~~~~~
t ) 2 f Z 5--I
(L   H   UN    T S    If               _       (a        lo   20    30   '0
c >    l  j  \/N                                                     KILOMETERS
i)  B  U MT T,tH A N<G                              I \\t Lb  |    <  /    ) l0    5    tO  15  20  25
-Th                                ufl~~~~~~~~~tsi   1MILES
T hi Ya'ngtsi
\umthong
o        Gyetsa
t Tong 60    \    !   <   <   )  >) Tag
-=  5hemgang                                             Kanlun                       
3 t;               v M O  G  A R k                                     i-
"s \ >   H E  G ANJG >                    ( >            >                    ;>   t) -
N  v       >               t    /  G~~~~~~~~~AT SE L            5 SA M D R U              .)R27-
G-                                                                   JO   NGK ,
I F G 2U G !  I                                      PemaGtsel(                J ONG K HA R    5
?  . .         \         ~~~~~Dech eng          ,                              . 
-9\    p             \   >j~~~~NA   e         lnt             hng                             'f~.-
Goyle zphug             x 
A. .----c-i  \ ts -omdrupJongkhar
AN   D 
A S S A Af
91'92 






