D i- "   c. v~ I ~, )   ,  A    } r,
The Wo
FOM GMCI
Rept Ne. 9939
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1416-BHU)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency:       Ngultrum (Nu)
Rate of Exchange:       At Credit signing (1984): US$1.00 - Nu 10.5
Current (April 1991): US$1.00 = Nu 20.2
GLOSSARY
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
GOI              Government of India
IDA              International Development Association
MOP              Ministry of Finance
PC               Planning Commission
PCR              Project Completion Report
RGOB             Royal Government of Bhutan
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
BHUTAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Waahington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dlreotor-General
Operations Evaluaon
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bhutan - Technical
Assistance Proiect (Credit 1416-BHU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bhutan - Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1416-BHU)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This documnent b as  restricte d tributon and may be used by n>iplents only in the perfornmae of tbeir oMchl dutles&
Its contents may not otherwlse be diclosed wvithout World tankt outhorlizdbn.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1416-BHU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .....................................................                                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................                                                        iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                                                           1
Project Identity .............................................                                                           I
Background ...................................................                                                           I
Project Objectives and Description ...........................                                                           2
Project Design ...............................................                                                           3
Project Organization and Implementation ......................                                                           3
Project Results ................                                                                                         4
Sustainability ...............................................                                                           5
IDA's Performance ............................................                                                           6
Borrower Performance .........................................                                                           6
Project Relationship .........................................                                                           6
Consulting Services ..........................................                                                           7
Project Documentation and Data ...............................                                                           7
Lessons Learned ..............................................                                                           7
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IiF. BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .....                                                          9
Introduction .................................................                                                           9
Project Objective and Description ............................                                                         10
Project Design ...............................................                                                         10
Organization and Implementation ..............................                                                         10
Consultancy Services .........................................                                                         10
Lessons Learned ..............................................                                                         11
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORM&TION ...........................                                                         13
Related IDA Credits ..........................................                                                         13
Project Timetable ............................................                                                         13
Credit Disbursements .........................................                                                         14
Project Costs and Financing ..................................                                                         15
Project Results ..............................................                                                         16
Status of Covenants ..........................................                                                         16
Use of Bank Resources ...............................  ........                                                        16
ANNEXES
1:  Subprojects Financed ....................................                                                          18
2:  Description of Subprojects ..............................                                                          19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
TECHNICA7 ASSISTANCE P;x'JECT
(Credit 1416-BHU)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for a Ilechnical Assistance
Project to Bhutan for which a Credit in the amount of SDR 2.8 million (esti-
mated US$3.0 million) was approved on October 13, 1983. After three exten-
sions, the Credit was closed on DecemDer 31, 1990 and the last disbursement
was made on April 3, 1991.
Preparation of this PCR was coordinated by the Technical Assis-
tance Unit of the Asia Technical Department on behalf of the Population and
Human Resources Operations Division, Country Department 1. The Borrower had
the opportunity to comment on Parts I and III and did not choosa to comment.
The Borrower prepared ,7 t II after reviewing Parts I and III.
Preliminary w.)rk on the PCR commenced during an IDA mission to
Bhutan in June, 1990 and was followed up by an IDA mission in April/May, 1991.
The Report is based inter alia on the President's Report; Development Credit
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower;
internal memoranda and interviews with individual Task Managers.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1416-BHU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The principal objective of this multi-secb;oral Credit 1416-BHU was
to assist the Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) in the preparation of a strong
pipeline of hiSh priority development projects for IDA or other external
financing. Additional objectives pursued included a strengthening of RGOB's
capacity for project preparation and implementation, ability to establish
development priorities, capability for selecting and guiding the work of
consultants, and institution building (para 1.5).
Implementation
This Credit was the first Bank Group operation in Bhutan.
Consequently, RGOB had no experience with IDA procedures, and Bhutan's
remnoteness made communication very difficult. RGOB also discovered that
numerous donors and lenders wanted to be involved in assisting this fas-
cinating and beautiful country--so long hidden away--step into the modern
world. After moving into implementation of the Project, RGOB also decided
that several subprojects tentatively identified during project design were not
appropriate for RGOB's stage of development, and other subprojects could be
financed by grants (see paras 1.12 and 1.13). These are the major reasons
that identification of new subprojects was slow, resulting in a three year
delay of the closing date. However, once subprojects were identified, RGOB
demonstrated a facility for learning the procedures to recruit and contract
consultants and moved fairly quickly to implement subprojects. At its
closing, this Credit had disbursed a significantly higher percentage of its
total allocation than similar projects from other lenders (see para 2.L7).
Results
The project met its immediate objective by generating and sup-
porting some -JS$37.5 million in follow-up investments, including US$13.2
million by IDA in the education and industry sectors (see para 1.14). The
provision of training and equipment under the Credit also strengthened line
agencies' ability to implement and monitor development projects.
Sustainability
The teley system financed under the Credit will provide a per-
manent benefit to Bhutan. The education project prepared uider this Credit is
anticipated to provide benefits for generations of children and their teachers



- iv -
and it is expected that the industry project supported by this Credit will
improve Bhutan's export position in the long term. The Equipment for Develop-
ment subproject has significantly improved the Government's ability to monitor
and implement projects (see para 1.18).
Findings and Lessons Learned
IDA learned that it is difficult to estimate the kind and level of
TA needs in a first operation in a new member country and that flexibility is
necessary in this type of situation. IDA found that RGOB strongly prefers to
use grant financing for advisory services to tackle institutional development
problems and to reserve reimbursable TA funds for feasibility studies (see
para 1.28).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1416-BHU)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Pzoiect Identity
Name                         : Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number                : 1416-BHU
RVP Unit                     : Asia Region
Country                      : The Royal Kingdom of Bhutan
Sector                       : Technical Assistance
Background
1.1         Bhutan became a member of the Bank Group in September 1981.
Fitherto, the country had, with India's assistance, completed four Five-Year
Development Plans between the years 1961/62 and 1980/81 focussing mainly on
the development of basic economic and social infrastructure. Bhutan's first
two Plans (up to 1970/71) were mainly financial budgeting exercises rather
than carefully worked out frameworks of development priorities.  With the
setting up of a Planning Commission (PC) in 1971, attention was focussed on
the establishment of an organized *±anning process.  However, project develop-
ment was constrained because of the PC's small and inexperienced sta'; and the
paucity of economic data and information.  Following a comprehensive Royal
Government of Bhutan (RGOB) review of the situation in 1979, the PC, in
consultation with the Ministry of Finance (MOF), was made responsible for the
preparation of future development plans. The PC was required to determine
RGOB's objectives, policies and priorities and coordinate and review Plan
implementation. MOF was given the responsibility for the preparation of
annual budgets within the framework of the Plan and for the mobilization of
internal resources. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in collaboration with the
PC was entrusted with the task of external resource mobilization in support of
national development goals.
1.2         The inception of Bhutan's Fifth Five Year Plan (1981/82 - 1986/87)
coincided with its membership in the Bank Group. A key objective of the Plan
was to increase the country's self-reliance by strengthening its productive
base in order to generate incomes and mobilize revenues to sustain develop-
ment. Towards this end, Plan allocations were devoted to generating viable
investment opportunities in industry including the forestry, mining and power
sectors with the prospect of increasing exports and public revenues. However,
the achievement of this objective was inhibited because of the absence of
well-formulated projects, a continuing shortage of technical expertise and
experienced personnel within the RGOE, a weak statistical system and a lack of
critical economic data. In order to remedy this situation, in 1981 RGOB
turned to IDA for assistance to secure the necessary consultancy and advisory
services to prepare a strong pipeline of projects.



2
1.3         An IDA programming mission and an economic rmission visited Bhutan
in June and October 1982, respectively, followed by identification missions
for possible projects in forestry, rural and urban water supply, and small
industries. RGOB also obtained consultant assistance in reviewing the
prospects for setting up an industrial finance and development organizationl to
promote the growth of medium and small scale enterprises. Finally, IDA's FY84
lending program for Bhutan provided for two projects--a Forestry Replantation
Project and a Technical Assistance Project which is the subject of this
Project Completion Report (PCR). Future projects wete tentatively planned for
possible IDA assistance in education, rural and urban development, communica-
tions, power generation and industry.
1.4         When Bhutan became a member of the Bank Group in September i981,
the country was a recipient of external assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and other major multilateral and bilateral
funding agencies. Bhutan had also received technical assistance under the
Colombo Plan to promote assistance among developing countries. Most of this
assistance had been tied to specific projects. Although these agencies were
expected to continue to support much of Bhutan's technical assistance require-
ments, RGOB's and IDA's assessment was that the level of the country's needs
over the next two to three years wao beyond what could be provided by these
agencies. In this regard, a pertinent consideration at that time was the
financial constraints facing the UNDP as one of the principal international
agencies providing technical assistance (TA) to Bhutan. In view of these
considerations, IDA agreed to supplement the TA Bhutan was receiving from UNDP
and other multilateral and bilateral agencies through the provision of a
multi-sectoral, free-standing credit.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.5         The principal objective of Credit 1416-BHU was to provide assis-
tance to RGOB in the preparation of a strong pipeline of projects deemed to be
of high priority in Bhutan's development effort. In addition, IDA also
expected to contribute to the achievement of the following additional objec-
tives:
(a)   strengthening the Government's capacity for project preparation
and implementation;
(b)   strengthening the Gover-ment's ability to establish development
priorities;
(c)   selecting the most suitable consultants needed and guiding their
work; and finally
(d)   promoting institutional development.
Insofar as project preparation and implementation were concerned, it was
expected that the institutions involved in this activity would be strengthened
through the trairing of local counterparts by the experts to be hired,
s-applemented by overseas training and study tours.
1.6         In line with its principal objective, the Credit was aimed at
financing the preparation of feasibility studies, as well as design and
engineering works for about ten high priority investment projects. Conse-
quently, at the time of negotiations RGOB presented IDA with a provisional



3
list of indicative projects from which suitable subprojects were expected to
be selected for technical v.ssistance. However, during the life of thte Credit
RGOB revised its needs and the following eight subprojocts were eventually
agreed upon for IDA financing. Further details regarding these subprojects
are given in Annex 2:
1. TA to the Planning Commission
2. Establishmenit of a Telex System
3. Preparatory Assistance for a Primary Education
Project
4. Dungsum Cement - Feasibility Study
5. TA in Sshool Building Design
6. Limestone Drilling Study
7. Coal and Graphite - Feasibility Studies
8. Equipment for Project Development
Project Design
1.7         RGOB and IDA staff designed this Project as a line of credit to
provide multi-sectoral assistance for subprojects to be identified and
approved at the working level during the life of tne Credit. It was intended
that funds would be approved for subprojects that met one of the following
mutually agreed criteria which were set out in a schedule to the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA):
(a)   a feasibility study or other investigation required for preparing
projects suitable for financing by IDA or ocher external financing
agencies (with priority given to studies of projects believed to
be suitable for consideration for financing by the Association);
(b)   technical assistance or staff training program designed to
strengthen institutions for project planning and implementation;
or
(c)   a study to provide information requ'ced for the selection of
specific projects for implementation, or for itmprovement of
overall economic planning.
1.8         In addition to the above criteria, it was also agreed thnat a
subproject should have no equally suitable financing from the UNDP or other
external financing agencies.
19         The design vas based on similar free-standing multi-sectoral TA
projects that had been implemented in other developing countries.
Proiect Organization and Implementation
1.10        RGOB designated the PC to play a lead role in the implementation
of this first IDA operation in Bhutan to emphasize the importance of planning
for development. The PC's first responsibility was to determine if the
subprojects proposed by line agencies were development priorities and if they
were suitable for IDA financing. The PC was further responsiK_e for the
selection and employment of consultants. This arrangement was intended to
minimize inconsistency in contract administration among line agencies who
retained technical responsibility for executing the subprojects.



4
1.11        In order to e'nsure coordination with the implementing agencies the
PC confirmed at negotiations the appointment of a qualified and experienced
Project Coordinator who was izsponsible for:
(a)   coordinating the selection of subprojects in accordance with the
eligibility criteriq agreed with IDA;
(b)   assisting with the recruitment of consultants and ccordination of
their work assignments;
(c)   compiling, preparing, verifying, signing and submitting withdrawal
applications to IDA;
(d)   monitoring disbursements;
(e)   monitoring overall project progress and forwarding to IDA quarter-
ly progress reports based on the reports submitted by the sub-
project implementing agencies; and
(f)   preparation of the PCR on behalf of RGOB.
1L12        Credit 1416-BHU was approved on October 18, 1983, signed on
February 29, 1984 and declared effective shortly thereafter on April 20, 1984.
RGOB did establish a Projert Coordination Cell in the PC to facilitate the
start-up of the Project as set out in the DCA. However, project implemen-
tation was slow resulting in a substantial underutilization of the Credit
during its first years. From the credit effectiveness date (April 20, 1984)
until November 1985, there was a 98% lag between the estimated and actual
current level of disbursements. The major reason for this lag was the
availability of grant funding from UNDP and other multilateral and bilateral
agencies. Another important reason was RCOB's unfamiliarity with IDS proce-
dures for disbursement and in recruiting and contracting consultants.
1.13        The TA Credit was formulated on the basis of an early estimate of
the size of IDA's future lending program to Bhutan which -as subsequently
scaled down. With few prospects of additional IDA investment in the near
term, RGOB strongly preferred utilizing grant funding to meet its TA needs
over the IDA line of credit which was reimbursable. An additional factor
which militated against RGOB's initial use of the IDA Credit was Bhutan's lack
of skilled personnel. During the early stages of project supervision, IDA
staff noted that there was a genuine scarcity of Government expertise avail-
able for development work, to provide information or to take follow-up action.
Under these circumstances, the chances of attracting investment capital looked
bleak, wiich explains why a number of pre-investment subprojects intended for
financing under this credit were dropped. Against this background, it took
time for RGOB to reevaluate its immediate needs and to develop suitable
subprojects.
Project Results
1.14        The principal objective of the Credit was to provide assistance to
RGOB in the preparation of a strong project pipeline. Despite the problems
noted in para 1.13, and a corresponding shift in project emphasis, follow-up
investment did occur as a result of the project preparatory assiatance
provided under the TA credit. Of the eight subprojects financed under the
Credit (see Annex 1), five (Subprojects #3,#4,#5 #6 and #7) involved pre-



5
investment activity. Of these, Subproject #3 Preparatory Assistance for a
Primary Education Project and Subproject #5 Technical Assistance in School
Building Design, together led to investment of US$13.6 million, of which IDA
invested US$4.2 million (Credit No. 1899-BHU). The other three subprojects
yielded mixed results. The feasibility study for Dungsum Cement (Subproject
#4), was shelved for some time althoug'h the work undertaken in connection with
it generated needed facilities including a road and school. In November 1990,
the PC initiated discussions with the Government of India to revive interest
in financing the project. Discussions are ongoing. T'.e Coal and Graphite
Studies (Subproject #7) confirmed that an investment project was currently not
feasible; however, assistance provided under the Limestone Drilling Study
(Subproject #6) in the form of technology and associated equipment made an
important contribution to a subsequent investment project--the Calcium Carbide
Project for US$23.9 million with IDA investment of US$9.0 million (Credit
1596-BHU signed in May 1985). Consequently, this Credit has generated or
supported about US$37.5 million of investment.
1.15        In addition, this TA Credit contributed to strengthening RGOB's
capacity for project preparation and implementation work and to institution
building through the training of national staff both on-the-job and abroad.
It also helped to provide critical technology and associated equipment and
training. In this regard, Subproject #1 provided TA to the PC, the institu-
tion selected to play a pivotal role in project coordination. Three staff of
the PC spent time in the Bank in Washington and were trained in procurement
and disbursement procedures. During the implementation of the Project the MOF
assumed a more active role in its management; consequently, ten Staff from MOF
were sent on training to the U.S. (Harvard) and U.K. (Overseas Development
Agency) in finance and project accounting management. The Credit financed
three projact vehicles to allow staff of the PC to visit project siteb and
coordinate with line ministries and outlying district staff. It also provided
the PC with computers and typewriters--basic tools urgently needed to carry
out its planning responsibilities.
1.16        Similarly, under Subproject #8, Equipment for Project Development,
the Credit financed equipment worth SDR 1.2 million, including 30 vehicles,
200 computers, office equipment, and land survey equipment which was dis-
tributed among line ministries and Government agencies responsible for
implementing projects. This equipment helped to make IDA-funded investments
and other multilateral and bilateral assistance more effective. IDA funds
also provided training in computer technology and maintenance to support the
hardware purchases.
1.17        The project also made a critical contribution to Bhutan's develop-
ment effort through the provision of a telex link from Thimphu to the outside
world under Subproject #2.  Its benefits are substantial not only in speeding
up international exchanges on development matters, but also in helping to
upgrade and facilitate swifter communication between Bhutan and the rest of
the world on all governmental business.
Sustainabilitv
1.18        The Credit helped prepare the Primary Education Project (Cr. 1899-
BHU) which is expected to benefit Bhutan in the long term. The Primary
Education Project focused on bringing girls into the classroom and should
provide special benefits for the women of Bhutan in the future. The telex
system financed under the TA Credit has transformed communication between



6
Bhutan and the rest of the world and will be a permanent benefit. In addition
to the telex facilities placed in Government offices, access to the satellites
has resulted in private businesses acquiring telex facilities. Projects
associated with investment in the industry sector (Subprojects #4, #6, and #7)
are expected to provide Bhutan with a better export position vis-a-vis India,
and RGOB officials report that Equipment for Development (Subproject #8) has
substantially increased their capability to develop, implement, and monitor
development projects.
IDA's Performance
1.19        During the design stage, IDA overcstimated Bhutan's capacity to
utilize the proposed line of credit for hard preinvestment which partly
accounts for the slow utilization of the Credit in the early years. Once
Bhutan's needs became apparent, IDA and RGOB adopted a more pragmatic approach
to ensure that the type of TA needed was made available to the country.
1.20        IDA supervision of overall project execution and implementation of
the individual subprojects was both timely and effective as reflected in the
shift in attention to RGOB's capacity to implement projects. In particular,
IDA's decision to approve Subproject #8 for financing showed its recognition
of the obstacles which faced RGOB because of the lack of critical technology
and associated equipment.
Borrower Performance
1.21         The Government agencies involved in the implementation of this
Credit showed a skill for recruitment and contracting and for learning and
applying IDA procedures. However, this strength was offset by a weakness in
communication inherent in the country's remoteness. Problems with communica-
tion led to misunderstandings with consultants, lags in payments, and late
receipt of information, which affected timeliness of implementation.
1.22        The Borrower was always cooperative and took seriously the
covenants in the DCA although there were some lags in providing audit reports
(see para 1.25). These delays were not serious and the Borrower's performance
can be compared favorably with the performance of other Borrowers in this
regard. During implementation the PC developed strong coordination links with
the line agencies and when communication failed it was mostly because there
was not enough depth of skilled personnel in the PC to follow through. The
Task Manager found that the program officers in the PC were well informed
about the various subprojects under their purview. It was also noted that the
managers of the line agencies were deeply involved in the implementation of
their subprojects.
Proiect Relationship
1.23        IDA-Borrower relationship was a strong and cooperative one.  When
it became apparent to both parties that the original project design needed
some adjustment, RGOB was able to mobilize high-level Government officials in
the MOF and the PC to produce a plan to utilize the Credit to reflect legiti-
mate but different needs than had been originally envisioned. IDA was
responsive and flexible--a proper stance for the first Credit to a new member
of the Bank Group. The PCR guidelines suggest that the relationship between
IDA and the Borrower as well as IDA's relationship with other cofinancing
agencies be discussed under this heading. In this regard it should be stated



7
that IDA enjoyes good relations with UNDP who was a partner in the preparation
of Subproject #2 for the implementation of the telex system, as well as with
UNESCO who contributed substantial financing to the follow-up investment
education project. The Borrower enjoys excellent relations with many donors
as manifested by their willingness to provide funds for Bhutan's development
process.
Consulting Services
1.24        Individual consultants and contractors played a significant role
in the execution of the Credit. Advisory services were obtained to assist
Subprojects #2 (Telex), #3 (Education), #4 (Dungsum Cement), #5 (Education),
and #6 (Coal and Graphite). Some advisory services also were involved in
Subproject #7 (Limestone Drilling); however, that Subproject as well as a
portion of Subproject #1 (TA to the PC) and most of Subproject 18 (Equipment
for Development) supported equipment purchases. In general the consultants
performed satisfactorily. The size of the Credit is relatively small and in
turn the allocations under each subproject were not large. Therefore,
consultants were not in the country for long periods of time. RGOB expected
the consultants to perform a set of services and depart with few if any
extensions. RGOB encouraged competition for services and in one instance
hired a different consultant to follow-up earlier work done by another
consultant under the same subproject avoiding the temptation to sole source.
Project Documentation and Data
1.25        Staff Appraisal Reports (SAR) are not prepared for multi-sectoral
technical assistance projects made up of numerous discrete preinvestment
subprojects. The DCA for this project set out the criteria to be met before a
subproject could be established. The criteria were flexible enough to meet
the Borrower's changing needs. The DCA included the usual covenant requiring
project audits (Section 4.04(e) of the DCA).  The standard wording do 's not
seem to be suited to the needs of free-standing multi-sectoral credits.
Because the project was made up of a number of discrete subprojects handled by
several agencies it was not clear to RGOB how to obtain an overall project
audit.  The Royal Audit Authority did provide individual audit statements for
some of the subprojects (Subprojects #1, #2, #3, and #5) and are auditing
others in the context of associated larger projects (Subprojects #4, #6, and
#7). Subproject #8 was completed just before Credit closing and the audit is
pending.
1.26        Most of the data needed for this PCR was available in the Super-
vision Reports of the Asia TA Unit and in project-related documents and
correspondence in IDA and RGOB files. Now that the PC and MOF have computers,
they expect to be able to keep a more accurate, up-to-date data base.
Lessons Learned
1.27        The first lesson learned from this project is how difficult it is
to estimate the needs for TA especially in a first operation in a new member
country and that considerable flexibility is required in the design of initial
TA projects. To avoid delays in implementation, it is important that IDA help
the new Borrower to become well grounded in handling IDA disbursement pro-
cedures and in recruiting and contracting consultants.



8
1.28        RGOB strongly prefers to use grant financing for advisory services
to tackle institutional development issues and reimbursable financing for
tasks such as feasibility, project preparation, and detailed design.
1.29        In conclusion, Credit 1416-BH?U served its immediate objective by
helping to generate and support some US$37.5 million of investments in
education and industry. This first operation also helped in modest but
significant ways to strengthen RGOB's capacity to identify, prepare, and
monitor development projects.



9
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
2.1         The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) launched its First Five Year
Economic Development Plan in 1961. Prior to this, Bhutan was isolated from
the rest of the world. With the introduction of the First Five Year Plan,
Bhutan cautiously opened its doors to donors to assist the country in its
development efforts. However, it was not until the Third Five Year Plan
(1971-76), that Bhutan began to receive attention from donors other than the
Government of India (GOI). Until then, the First and Second Plans were almost
entirely funded through the generous assistance of GOI. There were no roads
and other infrastructural facilities in the country when the First Development
Plan was initiated. Therefore, all the resources from GOI during the First
and Second Plans were utilized for the construction of roads and the develop-
ment of infrastructure to meet other basic needs such as health, education,
etc. This trend has continued through the Fifth Plan (1981-87). At the same
time more emphasis was attached to the development of the industrial and power
sectors.
2.2         Though other donors, viz. Switzerland, Japan and some interna-
tional agencies like the UNICEF, formally came forward to assist Bhutan in its
development efforts since the Third Plan, the contribution of GOI remained
substantial (89.9% during the Third Plan). GOI's contribution during the
successive plans decreased in terms of percentage as more and more donors
appeared. However, GOI's contribution always increased substantially in real
terms in order to meet the increased development needs of the country. This
is a reflection of the friendly and close relationship that exists between the
two countries.
2.3         Bhutan's association with Switzerland has a historic background.
It dates back to the close and friendly relationship between His Late Majesty,
King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck (Bhutan's third king), and Mr. F. Von Schulthess
and family in the 1950's. The assistance Bhutan received through Mr. Von
Schulthess was largely on a private basis and small in nature. Later, more
Swiss citizens joined Mr. Von Schulthess and formed the Foundation Pro-Bhutan
in 1969. Assistance from the Foundation was mainly in the livestock sector.
After activities under the Foundation increased significantly, the management
of its resources was entrusted to Helvetas. Therefore, the Swiss assistance
to Bhutan formally started flowing with the Third Plan. Similarly, the
Japanese extended assistance to Bhutan in 1964 in the form of an expert under
the Colombo Plan. These are a few examples of how today's major donors to
Bhutan first came into Bhutan. Bhutan joined the United Nations in 1971 and
has been a beneficiary under the system since then. The RGOB has always been
able to maintain very close and friendly relations with all its donors be it
bilateral, multilateral or financial institutions.
2.4         Bhutan became a member of the World Bank in 1981, at the commence-
ment of its Fifth Five Year Plan (1981-87). The Technical Assistance Project
(Credit No. 1416-BHU) was the first reimbursable funding that RGOB obtained
from IDA. Some of the other major donors in Bhutan's development efforts are
IFAD, ADB, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Australia, UK, UNDP, EEC, WFP, WHO,
UNCDF, etc.



10
Project Obiective and Description
2.5         The principal objective of Credit 1416-BHU (as outlined in Part I)
has been satisfactorily achieved, even though the subprojects which were to be
undertaken during the life of the Credit were substantially revised. This was
mainly due to a change in the needs/priorities of RGOB. Moreover, RGOB did
not have adequate prior experience in dealing with a project such as this.
Considering this fact, IDA has shown considerable flexibility and cooperation
in dealing with RGOB.
Proiect Design
2.6         The RGOB has been very cautious in borrowing reimbursable funds
from donors (financial institutions, bilateral or multilateral agencies)
because of the difficulty Bhutan faces in paying back these funds in con-
vertible currency. This can be elucidated by the fact that Bhutan maintains
free trade with India and as such most of Bhutan's export earnings are in
Indian Rupees. Furthermore, Bhutan's trade with countries dealing in con-
vertible currencv is still in its initial stages. With this fact in view,
RGOB requested IDA to revise the subprojects and include "Equipment for
Project Development" as Subproject No. 8 which subproject has contributed
substantially to the implementation of various development activities. This
technical assistance has been of special benefit because it has helped to fill
in the financing gaps of certain developmental activities which could not form
a complete project on their own due to their limited size and scattered scope.
Programmes such as computerization, telecommunication improvements etc., could
never have progressed thus far without the technical assistance provided under
Subproject #8.
Organization and Implementation
2.7         This was the first reimbursable credit from IDA made available to
Bhutan. Since the project consisted of a number of subprojects under dif-
ferent sectors, responsibility was given to the Planning Commission to monitor
its overall progress and implementation. However, later the tasks of signing
and submitting withdrawal applications and monitoring of disbursements were
given to the Ministry of Finance which is responsible for the overall loan
administration and debt management of the Government. The Credit had to be
extended three times before it was finally closed on 31 December 1990. One of
the reasons for RGOB's slow utilization of the funds was the lack of trained
manpower in the Government. The other major reason is RGOB's preference for
grants over reimbursable funds. This is substantiated by the fact that RGOB
has received significant grant assistance from donors for various pro-
grams/projects. This inflow of grants has consequently slowed down the
utilization of funds such as the one under this Project which is a reim-
bursable Credit from IDA.
2.8         Furthermore, Bhutan's limited communication links with the outside
world led to delays/difficulties in the implementation of the subprojects on
schedule.
Consultancy Services
2.9         The RGOB recognizes the need and importance of consultants in
carrying out various activities under the project. However, too many
consultants without proper terms of reference and contracts may not be



11
utilized. The RGOB is trying to strike a balance whereby an appropriate
number of consultants are brought into the country and are provided with
counterparts so that the knowledge of the consultants is transferred to the
Bhutanese countorparts anid the assignment is completed. Accordingly, the
terms of the consultants (short or long term) should be clearly defined
recognizing the needs in the particular program.
Lessons Learned
2.10        One of the most important lessons learned from this project is how
important it is to know how to negotiate and work with a complicated bureau-
cracy like the World Bank. RGOB learned how difficult it was to set priori-
ties for this kind of credit and as a result, IDA had to provide considerable
fle.-ibility during the life of the project. IDA may not be able to be as
flexible in future projects.
2.11        Because of the severe difficulties in obtaining hard currencies
for repayment, the Government would prefer that reimbursable funds for
technical assistance (TA) be spent on "hard" TA that is calculated to give a
positive return on the investment. This kind of TA would include expensive
detailed engineering or refining the feasibility of projects that have already
passed a pre-feasibility exercise. The reason is that Bhutan cannot afford to
take risks with funds that are reimbursable. However, the Government recog-
nizes that occasionally it is necessary to test the feasibility of certain
projects with some risk attached that may turn out to be very beneficial to
Bhutan. For projects such as these, the Government would choose to use grant
TA.
2.12        The Credit amount utilized under this project s:ands at 90% which
compares favorably with similar projects from other agencies which closed
recently. This was mainly due to the understanding and flexibility which the
Bank has shown in allowing RGOB to extend the Credit Closing Date three times
and in revising the subprojects according to its changing needs in the process
of project implementation.



13
PART III. Statistical Information
3.1 Related IDA Credits
Year of
Title                         Purpose      ARproval   Status           Comments
1.  Calcium Carbide           Plant          1985   Scheduled for    Subproject #6
Project (Cr. 1596-BHU)  construction            completion by    contributed to an
end June 1991    investment of
US$ 23.9 million
of which IDA's share
was US $9.0 million.
2.  Primary Education         Support of    1988   Under               Subprojects #3 and #5
Project (Cr. 1899-BHU)  Government's            implementation   together led to an
plan to provide                          investment of US$ 13.6
for a growth                             million in this
rate of about 6%                         project, of which
p.a. in primary                          IDA's share was
education,                               US$ 4.2 million.
raise education
quality, student
achievement and
lower costs of
primary schooling
3.2 Project Timetable
Date               Date              Date
Item                        Planned            Revised             Actual
- Identification                                                        October 1982
- Preparation                                                           October 1982
- Appraisal Mission               Not applicable. Appraisals are not done for this
type of multi-sectoral, free-standing Credit.
- Credit Negotiations             Feb. 7, 1983       March 21, 1983   June 6-10, 1983
- Board Approval                  Apr. 26, 1983      May 10, 1983       October 18, 1983
Aug. 23, 1983
- Credit Signature                      --               --             Feb. 29, 1984
- Credit Effectiveness            May 29, 1984                          April 20, 1984
- Credit Closing                  Dec 31, 1987        Dec 31, 1988/    Dec 31, 1990
1989
-Credit Completion                      --                --            April 30, 1991



14
3.3 Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements in USS I/
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91 (to 4/3/91)
Appraisal Estimate        0.2   0.4   0.6   2.1   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Actual                      -    0.2   0.11  0.32  0.94  1.29  2.34  3.33 2/
Actual as %
of Estimate          -     5    18.3  15.2  31.3  43.0  78.0  111.0
Date of Final Disbursement: April 3, 1991
1/ Disbursements in historical US dollar equivalents have exceeded the amount
of the Credit because the SDR has appreciated from US dollar 1.1 in 1983
to US $1.4 in 1990. However, Credit disbursements did not exceed the SDR
allocation of 2.8 million.
2   Current estimated historical U.S. dollar value of Credit at final
disbursement.
B. Cumulative Disbursements (Actual) in SDR
IDA Fiscal Year
IDA FY            SDR               Percent
1985             18,975                0.7
1986             98,939                3.5
1987            265,440                9.5
1988            747,519               26.7
1989         1,016,434                36.3
1990         1,824,918                65.2
1991
to 4/3/91    2,530,861-               90.4
* SDR 269,139 cancelled on 4/3/91.



15
3.4 Pro4ect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
President Report Estimate              Actual
(USS Mil)                       (US$ Mil)
3.0                              3.3
A breakdown of Project Costs by individual subprojects 4  given below:
Actual
Subproject No.      Name                                        (SDR)
1             TA to Planning Commission                  172,772.40
2             TA in establishment of a Telex
System                                  454,458.76
3             Preparatory Assistance for a
Primary Education Project               118,080.91
4             Dungsum Cement-Feasibility Study           127,054.53
5             TA in School Building Design                47,647.85
6             TA in Limestone Drilling                  209,273.75
7             Coal and Graphite-Feasibility
Study                                   225,967.18
8             Equipment for Project Development        1,175,605.29
2,530,860.67 2/
1/ Disbursements did not exceed SDR allocation.
2/ SDR 269.139.33 of the SDR 2,800,000 Credit was cancelled on April 3, 1991.
B. Proiect Financing
Planned
Credit
Source               Agreement          Revised        Final            Comments
(US$'000)          (US$'000)    (US$'000)
IDA                     3.0                --             3.3      The Credit was
denominated in SDRs
and estimated in
US$. Because of
exchange rate fluctu-
ations, the US Dollar
amount increased as
the SDR strengthened
against the US
Dollar.
TOTAL                   3.0                               3.3



16
3.5 Prolect Results
Studies
Comment:   A major purpose of the Credit was to provide funds for
pre-investment studies, e.g.: design, detailed
engineering and feasibility as needed. The studies
completed under the Credit subsequently had an impact on
the following investment projects:
Subproject
Number      Project Name
#3 & #5     Primary Education Project (Cr. 1899-BHU)-US$ 13.6 million
#6          Calcium Carbide Project (Cr. 1596-BHU)-US$ 23.9 million
3.6 Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                 Subiect                      Compliance       Status
1.  DCA Section          Furnish subproject           Annually        Und:r compliance
4.04(e)             accounts and audits
2.  DCA Section          Submission of Project        4/30/91          Completed
4.04(f)             Completion Report (PCR)
by Borrower
3.7   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle              Planned    Revised    Final           Comments
Through Appraisal              -          -          -            No appraisal
Preparation of President's    -           -         7.3
Report through Board Approval
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness                  -            -       1.9
Supervision                    -           -        12 weeks 1/
1/ Staff inputs by Task Managers of individual subprojects have not
been included.



i7
B. Missions
Stage of      Month/   Number of  Days       Specialization  Performance       Types of
Prolect Cycle   Year      Persons    in Field Represented a/  Rating Status b/ problems c/
Through          6/82       n/a       n/a
Preparation of   10/82      n/a       n/a
President's
Report
President's      None
Report through
Board Approval
Board Approval   None
through
Effectiveness
Supe--vision      6/84       1           7        TA                 1                M
9/84      1           6        TA                 1                M
11/85      1           9        TA                 2                M
10/86      1          16        TA                 2                M/O
4/87      1           9        TA                 2                M/O
6/88      1          11        TA                 2                M/O
4/89      1           6        TA                 2                M/O
6/90      1          11        TA                 1                M/O
3/91      1           7        TA                 1                M/O
a/ TA-Technical Assistance
b/ 1-Problem-free or min"r problems
2-Moderate problems
c/ M-Managerial
O-"Other" referi to disbursement delays



18
Annex I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL KINGDOM OF BHtITAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1416-BHU)
Subproiects Financed
Subproject No:                                     Actual      Actual
(SDR)       (US$)
#1   TA to the Planning                             172,772      225,814
Commission
#2   Establishment of
a Telex System                              454,459      563,724
#3   Preparatory Assistance
for a Primary Education                     118,081      152,213
Project
#4   Dungsum Cement-                                127,055      164,476
Feasibility Study
#5   TA in School Building                           47,648       62,809
Design
#6   Limestone                                      209,274      267,824
Drilling Study
#7   Coal & Grapkite
Feasibility Study                           225,967      296,544
#8   Equipment for Project
Development                               1,175,605   1,596,875
Total                                    2,530,861*  3,330,279
* SDR 269,139 (US$ 195,272) was cancelled as of April 3, 1991.



19
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1416-BIU)
Description of Subproiects
Subproject #1.           TA to the Planning Commission
Executing Agency:        Planning Commission, Government of Bhutan
Amount:                  SDR 180,000   (US$ 236,102 equivalent)
1.          RGOB selected the Planning Commission (PC) as the focal point for
overall coordination and monitoring of this Technical Assistance Project. The
PC was given the responsibility for screening the subprojects submitted by the
various agencies and for the selection of those subprojects to be implemented
in consultation with IDA. Since this was the Bank Group's first lending
operation tc Bhutan, it was necessary to ensure that the PC was adequately
strengthened to undertake the task entrusted to it. The activities planned
under Subproject #1 were specifically geared to achieving this objective.
2.          zn order to facilitate the start-up of the project and
implementation of the selected subprojects, the first subproject financed the
establishment of a Project Coordination Cell (PCC) in the PC. The activities
supported covered the training of staff and the procurement of equipment,
materials and vehicles essential for the functioning of the PCC. Provision
was also made for the financing of studies to be included in the project as
well as for the employment of short-term consultants.
3.          With a view to speeding up implementation of the project, during
credit negotiations RGOB confirmed the appointment of a Project Coordinator to
head the PCC, agreed on the criterin for subproject selection and undertook a
review of the standard contract for the employment of consultants with
concerned IDA staff. IDA also conducted seminars on the procedures involved
in the employment of consultants, as well as on procurement and disbursement
procedures. Additionally, retroactive financing of up to a maximum of
US$50,000 was provided by IDA for expenditures incurred after June 30,1983
until Credit Effectiveness and an initial provision of US$100,000 was
allocated to this subproject.
4.          Apart from the initial purchase of such items of hardware as
typewriters, photocopiers, calculators and vehicles, as well as the payment of
the travel and other costs of the Deputy Secretary of the PC to visit
Washington, the funds made available under Subproject #1 were further
augmented to provide the following additional training for the staff of the
Department of National Budget and Accounts to help to strengthen the financial
services of the Government:



20
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
(a)    Workshop on Budgeting in the Public Sector at the Harvard
Institute of International Development, Cambridge, Massachusetts -
(Two Officers).
(b)    National Budgeting at the International Law Institute, Washington
D.C. - (Two Officers).
(c)    Public Accounts and Audit', ODA, CETC, Croydon, U.K. - (Six
Officers).
5.          Furthermore, with IDA's concurrence the PC purchased 26 IBM
compatible computers and distributed them among the ministries and departments
involved in the processing of the IDA Credit as well as the Computer Support
and Training Center. Because of the difficulty in obtaining computer
maintenance services in Bhutan, two nationals were initially trained in
maintenance and servicing. More staff are expected to be trained at a later
date. The allocation for this subproject was SDR 180,000.
Subprolect #2            Establishment of a Telex System
Executing Agency:        Department of Telecommunications,
Amount:                  SDR 454,459   (US$ 563,724 equivalent).
6.          During the preparatory phase of Credit 1418, it was apparent to
IDA staff concerned that the lack of an assured communication link between
Bhutan and the outside world seriously hampered the smooth transaction of RGOB
business. Unless immediate improvements were made IDA feared that the present
situation could cause inordinate delays in implementation of the proposed
project. Messages from Washington had to be transmitted by telex to the
Bhutanese Embassy in New Delhi and from there via two intermediate radio links
to the capital city of Thimphu. The existing system was highly susceptible to
atmospheric conditions and long breakdowns particularly during the monsoons.
7.          To remedy this critical shortcoming a short-term solution was
proposed for improving communications through the installation of 10 telex
lines linking Thimphu to the nearest exchange in India. An allocation of
US$100,000 was earmarked for this activity under t.!e project, while consultant
services were proposed to review the existing system and provide
recommendations for improving Bhutan's communications with the outside world.
8.          In the implementation of this sub'roject, it was agreed that the
consultants would:
(a)   study the existing telecommunication facilities and assess future
requirements and
(b)   determine the priority needs in this area which could be met in
the immediate future.



21
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
9.          Based on the ^onsultants recommendations, RGOB opted for the
establishment of 20 telex lines at Thimphu and 20 at Phuntsholing. The system
installed to provide these 40 lines had sufficient built-in capacity to
accommodate a total of 512 lines. The Thimphu exchange was connected by a
microwave link to New Delhi to provide Bhutan with international access.
10.         The contract was awarded to the lowest foreign bidder.  However,
the cost estimate of the subproject provided by the lowest bidder turned out
to be substantially higher than the original allocation of US$100,000. It
finally amounted to US$250,000 (SDR 516,000) with the balance funding being
provided by an UNDP contribution of US$136,000 under UNDP Project No.
BHU/84/016 made in support of the telex system and an additional US$24,000 of
UNDP funding for the provision of consultancy services.
11.         The contracc price included the supply, installation and
commissioning of the equipment, three month's of maintenance after
commissionirg and eight weeks training in France by the contracting firm of
seven staff of Bhutan's Department of Telecommunications. The system was due
to be commissioned by the end of July 1986, but on account of delays it
finally became operational in July 1987. RGOB subsequently requested an
increase in the number of lines at Thimphu from 20 to 40 as the provision made
for the installation of telex lines was in excess of the demand. IDA conceded
to the Government's request by increasing the subproject allocation by a
further US$70,000 (SDR52,000) to a total of US$320,000 or SDR 568,000.
12.         During installation of the system, RGOB decided that third country
calls should not be transmitted through India's domestic exchanges as
originally planned, and preferred instead to use the Gateway International
Exchange at Delhi. Under this arrangement telexes transmitted from Bhutan
would be treated as transit traffic tlrough India and be delinked from its
traffic to India. Bhutan and India continued discussions on the resolution of
the technical issues involved following this decision. In the interim, India
agreed to provide a dedicated channel for Bhutan in its domestic exchange
apart from its own traffic which allo;ed Bhutan's international telexes to be
routed almost instantly to its International Gateway Exchange from its
domestic exchange.
13.         The benefits of the international telecommunication link to Bhutan
have been substantial and have contributed significantly to speeding up its
communication with the outside world. The technology acquired which enables
Bhutan to operate and maintain this system also represents a positive
acquisition of skills by its Department of Telecommunications.
Subprolect#3             Preparatory Assistance for Primary Education Project
Subproiect#5             TA in School Building Design
Executing Agency:        Department of Education #3
Department of Education #5



22
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
Amount:                  #3-SDR 118,081   US$ 152,213 equivalent
#5-SDR 47,648    US$ 62,809 equivalent
14.         Subprojects #3 and #5 are closely interrelated as they both
involve the financing of coiisultancy services for preparatory assistance
leading up to the appraisal of an investment project for primary education in
Bhutan financed by IDA.
15.         Under Subproject #3, RGOB procured the services of a foreign
consultant initially for a period of one year from October 10, 1986 to provide
assistance to the Department of Education in preparation of the project. The
consultant's TOR also covered among other subjects the financial and economic
analysis of the Government's proposed primary education construction program
for its Sixth Five Year Plan; a 10 year projection of teacher supply and
demand; preparation of preliminary lists of equipment, furniture etc., for the
proposed project; development of policy options designed to increase the
number of teacher trainees and help in putting together a financial package
for the proposed project with funding from IDA, UNICEF and the Swiss
Development Corporation. The consultant's services were subsequently extended
for a further period of six months to April 9, 1988 to enable him to assist
RGOB in meeting IDA's negotiating requirements and in the negotiation of the
proposed project with IDA. In practice however it would appear that in fact
the consultant's services were used primarily in assisting the Government in
preparation and negotiation of the proposed Credit. In particular, a
considerable portion of his time seems to have been expended in
providing RGOB with expert advice and assistance 'n meeting IDA's requirements
for project appraisal and subsequently for credit negotiations.
16.         Similarly, the consuitant services acquired by RGOB under
Subproject #5 were for the purpose of providing architectural designs for
school buildings for the proposed project. His services were initially hired
from March 1987, with a termination date of October 1987 coinciding with the
date set for conclusion of the services of the project preparation consultant.
The Architect's mandate was to provide cost effective design standards for 25
new primary schools provided for under the Government's Sixth Plan which the
proposed project also supported.
17.         As with the project preparation consultant, the design architect's
assignment was subsequently extended to June 1988 to enable his active
participation in the preparatory work for the proposed IDA project and for its
subsequent implementation. This work covered the preparation of preliminary
designs in collaboration with the Public Works Department as agreed to during
project appraisal. These designs, which were a part of IDA's negotiating
requirement, were for schools to be built in temperate and tropical areas, for
preliminary site plans and for cost estimates for two of the 12 primary
schools. It also encompassed the provision of architectural, structural and
electro-mechanical drawings, site development plans and bid documents for two
of the project Phase I sites, as well as preliminary site plans for five of
the Phase 2 sites once the proposed credit was declared effective. The
activities financed under these two subprojects culminated in an investment of
US$ 13.6 million for a Primary Education Project with IDA investment of US$
4.2 million (Credit 1899-BHU) signed on May 9, 1988.



23
Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
Subproiect #4            Dungsum Cemel.t - Feasibility Study
Executing Agency:        Department of Industries and Mines
Amount:                  SDR 137,000  (US$ 178,918 equivalent)
18.         This consultancy awarded to a foreign firm was for the purpose of
obtaining an independent reappraisal of a detailed feasibility report obtained
from a foreign government corporation in May 1985 on a proposed major
investment for the manufacture of cement in Bhutan. The consultant firm was
contracted to confirm and verify the economic feasibility of construction and
operation of the proposed Dungsum Cement Project.
19.         Under the contract the consultant firm was required to pay
particular attention to the following in its reappraisal of the Feasibility
Report:
(a) Limestone Deposit and Mining Plan
(b) Suitability of the technology proposed
(c) Manpower training needed for the proposed technology
20.         The consultants visited Bhutan in August 1986 prior to carrying
out the assignment in order to survey the actual limestone deposit and factory
site for the proposed Project. Following their assignment and subsequent
discussions with the foreign corporation responsible for this feasibility
report, the consultant firm informed RGOB that based on the existing report of
the limestone deposit a 1500 TPD cement plant was economically feasible.
However, some additional work on the deposit was needed to carry out the
detailed mining plan as the physical formation of the limestone deposit hill
was extremely difficult terrain.
21.         The consultants also recommended that the Managing Director of the
Dungsum Cement Project and the Deputy Chief Engineer (Projects) of the Penden
Cement Authority of Bhutan visit limestone mines and equipment manufacturers
in Denmark, France, West Germany, Switzerland, Austria and the U.K. It is
apparent from the record of these visits that there was a willingness on the
part of the equipment manufacturers to assist Bhutan in its efforts to go
ahead with the recommended investment. However, further endeavors in this
direction were stalled due to the non-availability at that time of adequate
funds from likely bilateral donors. Discussions have resumed with India and
are ongoing.
Subproiect #5            See Subproject #3.
Subproiect #6            Limestone Drilling Study
Executing Agency:        Department of Trade and Industries
Amount:                  SDR 233,000  (US$ 301,579 equivalent)



24
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
22.         Subproject #6 was implemented in two phases both with the same
objective in view, namely to examine the feasibility of developing limestone
based industries in Bhutan. Both phases aimed at determining the quality of
limestone deposits found at various locations throughout the country and
confirming the adequacy of available reserves for industrial exploitation.
23.         Phase I of this subproject was focussed on drilling in Hanri
Khola, Kaleshar and Purbia Khola where known deposits of limestone existed.
The objective of this exercise was to determine the suitability of the grades
for a proposed Calcium Carbide Project as well as to confirm the quantum of
available reserves. The contract for Phase I awarded to a foreign firm was
completed at an estimated cost of US$300,000 in March 1987.
24.         Work on Phase II commenced in July 1987, and was completed in June
1989. Its objective was to undertake a study of the limestone deposits found
at Wangtsa, Haa in order to de1termine the feasibility of establishing a white
cement plant. Other industrial uses cited were the possible production of
precipitated Calcium Carbonate and hydrated lime. The long term objective of
these feasibility studies was the establishment of revenue earning industries
which could contribute to the economic development of the country.
25.         While Phase I of the subproject was awarded to a foreign firm,
Phase II was undertaken by the Geological Survey of Bhutan, a Government
organization responsible for geological exploration and investigation in the
country. The excavation work and allied costs of this Phase were met by the
Government. However, IDA was requested to meet the foreign costs needed for
the procurement of conventional core drilling equipment and accessories to
supplement the meager equipment available at the Geological Survey offices to
undertake the study.
26.         The Limestone Drilling subproject supported the Calcium Carbide
Project which was signed in May 1985 (Credit 1596-BHU) with IDA investment of
US$ 9.0 million (total project cost of US$ 23.9 million). Production
commenced under this project in May 1988 at abLalt 90% capacity using limestone
deposits in Hanri Khola and Kaleshar. The Government plans to use the
limestone deposits available at Gidakom and Jemena to supplement the future
supply of raw material when available resources at the present locations run
out.
Subprolect 17            Coal and GraRhite Feasibility Studies
Executing Agency:        Department of Trade & Industries
Amount:                  SDR 245,000  (US$ 323,637 equivalent)
27.         In agreement with IDA, RGOB agreed that a single firm should be
contracted to undertake the assignment of conducting a feasibility study on
graphite plus a pre-feasibility study on coal. Accordin obtained IDA's
approval to a short list of prospective firms from whom bids were invited and
thereafter provided IDA with the Government's Evaluation Committee Report on
the technical proposals received.



25
Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
28.         RGOB selected the winning firm among four bidders based on
evaluation procedures approved by IDA. After a review of the findings of the
feasibility Reports for both mineral resources RGOB has decided to postpone
investment.
Subproject #8            Equipment for Project Development
Executing Agency:        Planning Commission
Amount:                  SDR 1,203,000  (US$ 1,692,661 equivalent)
29.         In 1989, IDA requested RGOB to submit proposals on how uncommitted
funds under the Credit could be utilized. RGOB responded that lack of
equipment was seriously holding up its development efforts.
30.         Consequently, RGOB sought IDA's concurrence to use the remaining
credit balances for the provision of critical items of equipment in support of
economic development. In December 1989, IDA agreed to the establishment of a
separate subproject to finance the procurement of computers, vehicles,
photocopiers, fax and telex machines, and other equipment needed to assist
RGOB in identifying and implementing future development projects.
31,         This subproject has financed the procurement of the following
t,pes of equipment:
IBM Compatibles
Apple Computers
Toshiba Lap Tops
Cadastral Survey Equipment for agricultural land and crop
surveying and data collection
Vehicles and spares
32.         The support provided through this subproject has helped
considerably to relieve the strain imposed on RGOB's financial and other
resources in the support of its development plans, particularly since grant
funding was not available from other donors to provide the type of support
needed.



