ILE       COPY 41 E SDocument of
FlL           9"l |               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2024-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
ALEPPO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 1, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 1              US$0.25
US$1       =      LS 3.95
ABBREVIATIONS
Arab Fund               -   Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
EPEA                    -   Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep
(Aleppo Water Supply Authority)
EPEF                    -   Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh
(Damascus Water Supply Authority)
MHU                     -   Ministry of Housing and Utilities
MLG                     -   Ministry of Local Government
PDF                     -   Public Debt Fund
USAID                   -   United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SYRIA - ALEPPO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Syrian Arab Republic.
Amount:        US$50.0 million in various currencies.
Terms:         17 years, including 3 1/2 years of grace, at interest rate
of 8.2 percent per annum.
Onlending      US$48.5 million in various currencies would be on-lent by
Terms:        the Government to Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep (EPEA)
under the same conditions and with a maturity of not less
than 17 and not more than 20 years, including not less than
3-1/2 and not more than 4-1/2 years of grace, at interest
rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
Project        (a)  an expansion of the intake, transmission and treatment
Description:       facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo and extensions to
the distribution system; auxiliary buildings, office
facilities, equipment and staff training for EPEA; and
related consulting services;
(b) feasibility and preliminary engineering studies of
the sewage collection, treatment and disposal system
for Aleppo and Lattakia;
(c) technical assistance to the State Planning Commission
and public construction enterprises for the collection
and analysis of data on construction resources and
building materials and improving the administration
of enterprises.
This documont has a mtrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WowM Bank auithorIation.



- ii -
Project Cost: The table below summarizes the cost of the project.
% of
LS Millions--           --   US$ Millions----   Project
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total    Cost
(a) Water Supply
Component
Aqueduct and
Pumping Mains      109.4    62.8    172.2    27.7     15.9    43.6    37.3
Pumping stations
and Telemetry        3.9    37.5     41.4     1.0      9.5    10.5     9.2
Treatment Plant      10.6     10.3    20.9     2.7      2.6     5.3     4.4
Distribution
Facilities          17.1    32.5     49.6     4.3      8.2    12.5    10.7
Ancillary Buildings
and Equipments       4.8     2.6      7.4     1.2     0.7      1.9     1.7
Consultants           5.2    15.2     20.4     1.3      3.8     5.1     4.3
Training             -0.8     0.8      1.6     0.3      0.2     0.5     0.4
Sub-Total           151.8   161.7    313.5    39.5    40.9     79.4    68.0
(Base Cost)
Physical contin-
gencies 15%         21.8    25.2     47.0     5.5      6.4    11.9    10.2
Sub-total           173.6   186.9    360.5    44.0     47.3    91.3    78.2
Price contin-
gencies             55.7    38.0     93.7    14.1      9.6    23.7    20.2
Sub-total Water
Supply Works        229.3   224.9    454.2    58.1    56.9    115.0    98.4
(b) Aleppo and
Lattakia
Sewerage Studies      1.0     4.9      5.9     0.2      1.3     1.5     1.3
(c) Technical Assis-
tance Construc-
tion Industry         0.2     1.0      1.2     0.1     0.2      0.3     0.3
Total Project Cost       230.5    230.8   461.3    58.4     58.4   116.8    100.0



- iii -
Financing    The proposed loan would finance 43% of the total cost of the
Plan:      project (excluding secondary distribution works) as summarized
in the table below:
Total      EPEA       Government       IBRD
--------------US$ Millions----------------
Water supply component           115.0     14.2          52.3           48.5
Secondary distribution works       6.6      6.6           -               -
Sub-total EPEA              121.6     20.8 /1      52.3 /2         48.5
Sewerage studies                   1.5                    0.2            1.3
Technical assistance
Construction industry             0.3                   0.1             0.2
Total                       123.4     20.8         52.6            50.0
/1   Net cash generation 1978-82.
/2   Equity.
Estimated Disbursements:                  ------------$ Millions-----------
Bank FY       1978   1979   1980   1981    1982
Annual         2.0   13.5   16.5   13.0     5.0
Cumulative     2.0   15.5   32.0   45.0    50.0
Procurement: Contracts for civil works (amounting to about US$61 million
including contingencies) and for materials and equipment (amount-
ing to about US$43 million including contingencies) would be
awarded following international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, except for contracts estimated
to cost less than US$300,000. These contracts, the total of
which would not exceed in aggregate US$5.0 million, would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank. In bid comparison, local manufacturers
of equipment and materials, to be procured under ICB, would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to 15 percent of CIF price
or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Consultants: About 1,040 man-months of consultant services would be provided
under the project, at an average foreign exchange cost (excluding
contingencies) of about $5,000 per man-month; of the total, 800
man months would be provided for the water supply component.



- iv -
Rate of
Return:     Internal economic return (excluding non-quantifiable benefits):
10 percent
Appraisal    Report No. 1542-SYR, dated June 1, 1977
Report:     EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE ALEPPO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of $50.0 million equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help finance
the Aleppo Water Supply project. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum. The
equivalent of $48.5 million out of the proceeds of the loan would be on-lent
to Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep (EPEA) under the same conditions and
with a maturity of not less than 17 and not more than 20 years, including not
less than 3-1/2 and not more than 4-1/2 years of grace, at interest rate of
8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects for
Syria" (no. 806-SYR, dated October 31, 1975) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 12, 1975. This section is based on the findings of an
economic mission which visited Syria in November 1976 in preparation for a
Basic Economic Mission. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Since attaining independence in 1946, Syria has had several changes
in regime which resulted in a shift of power from groups of landowners,
traders, and industrialists to a rising class of officers, technicians, and
civil servants, as well as a shift of the economy from an essentially laissez-
faire system to a largely publicly-owned and centrally regulated one. The
Ba'ath Socialist Party, the ruling party since 1963, provided substantial
continuity of emphasis on economic and social development policies which have,
by and large, prevailed in spite of internal Government changes and tensions
within the Middle East. During the 1960s an agrarian reform was carried out,
with redistribution of land to a large number of formerly landless peasants;
also large segments of the industrial, finance and trade sectors were national-
ized. In November 1970 General Assad became President of the Republic; his
regime has been characterized by a balance of firmness and conciliation in
domestic policies, economic pragmatism, a concerted search for a better
defined role for the private sector in a centrally regulated economy, as well
as diversification of foreign economic relations. These aims have been
pursued gradually and, in spite of continued political uncertainty in the
Middle East, substantial reorientation of economic policies and diversifica-
tion of production have been achieved.
4.        The Government's attention to economic and financial matters has led
to a sustained on-going effort in conceptualizing objectives, identifying con-
straints, and formulating alternative strategies. As a result, an increasingly
pragmatic assessment of economic policies is taking place within the Government
(and the ruling Ba'ath Party). A new cabinet was formed in August 1976. One



- 2 -
of its key tasks is to implement new economic policy directives, to strengthen
economic management, and to tighten controls over investment decisions in the
public sector. The new Prime Minister, General Khleifawi, a former head of
the Economic Committee of the Ba'ath Party, and Prime Minister in the first
cabinet formed after President Assad's accession to power, defined shortly
after the change in cabinet the new principles which henceforth are to guide
Syrian economic policies. The Prime Minister's program, while re-affirming
the Ba'ath Party's commitment to general socialist principles and the dominant
role to be played by the public sector, called for improvements in management
of the public sector and attempted to define a role for the private sector
(including the specification of activities open to private investment, exclu-
sively or jointly with the public sector, and the provision of the necessary
safeguards and incentives to stimulate private investment). The program also
calls for the formulation of a wages and price policy, review of the economic
planning system, transformation of the existing Industrial Bank into a genuine
industrial development finance institution, and changes in interest rate
policies to promote greater consistency with interest rates charged in neigh-
bouring countries and to stimulate domestic savings.
5.        The 1973 petroleum price increase, which boosted Syria's own petro-
leum export earnings, and the sharp rise in Arab grants following the October
1974 Rabat agreement, augmented financial resource availability in the short
run, leading to revisions of the Third Plan (1971-75) and sharp increases in
public investments. However, adverse financial developments, rooted in the
high investment rates of 1974-75 and external developments, including the
discontinuation of oil transit by Iraq, a decline in Arab aid and the impact
of the Lebanese civil war, put unexpected financial constraints on investment
and growth, and delayed the finalization of the Fourth (1976-80) Plan to early
1977. For 1976-80, the Plan calls for: real growth of 12 percent yearly in
GDP, a target specified by the Ba'ath Party; increases in real terms of 7 per-
cent per annum in exports; and a domestic savings/GDP ratio of about 23 per-
cent. With the constraints on resource availability that have emerged, the
Government has limited its investment program mainly to ongoing projects, and
a further revision of the Plan is underway with a view to scaling it down
substantially.
6.        The strategy underlying the Fourth Plan places particular emphasis
on industrialization, with investment in agriculture remaining substantial.
The industrial development strategy stresses import-substitution in consumer
goods, and a substantial expansion of resource-based industries, such as
cotton textiles, cement and fertilizers. Significant exports of manufactured
goods by 1980 -- particularly textiles and fertilizers -- is a primary objec-
tive of the Government's investment program in the manufacturing sector. In
agriculture, the Government's overall objectives are the same as those in the
previous Plan: self-sufficiency in major domestic food needs, meeting the raw
material requirements of industry, and provision of a production surplus for
export. Rational land and water use, the stabilization of annual fluctuations
in output and the improvement in consumer diets through an increase in protein
supply are further objectives. The strategy to achieve these objectives
includes expansion of irrigated agriculture, intensification of crop produc-
tion and achievement of a better balance and complementarity between crop and
livestock production.



- 3 -
7.        Economic growth during 1971-75 is estimated at close to the 8 per-
cent target level, and growth in 1976 was also around 8 percent. Public
investment during 1971-75 reached about 70 percent of the original Plan
target, with about 55 percent of the total outlays being made in the last
two years of the Plan period, largely as a result of greater availability of
financial resources. The elasticity of savings with respect to GDP fell to
1.0, compared to a target of 1.8, reflecting a shortfall in the public savings
effort, particularly in recent years. A substantial number of manufacturing
projects, including those in fertilizers and steel rolling, came on stream
during the Plan period, thus diversifying the structure of industrial output.
Particularly heavy expenditures were made in industry, energy and fuel in
1974 and 1975, as a large number of projects were commenced. Investments
in irrigation and agriculture appear to have remained stagnant in real terms
during the Plan period and fell substantially short of the target and the
Plan's overall achievement rate. Nonetheless, the Euphrates basin investments
were substantial and are expected to lead to higher growth and stability in
the production of the agricultural sector in the future. Progress in the
fields of transport and communications kept pace with the overall implementa-
tion rate of the Plan. Investments in social services reached a high propor-
tion of planned allocations, although substantial needs remain in education,
health and urban services.
8.        Increasingly aware of the needs to improve the economy's performance,
the Government has begun to take measures to relieve constraints on the coun-
try's development. Following the years of financial ease (up to early 1976),
fiscal performance needs to be improved, if development is to proceed without
interruption and without entailing potentially serious inflationary and public
debt management problems. This will require greater resource mobilization and
tighter control of expenditures. Efforts are underway in the Ministry of
Finance to reform the tax system and to improve the Ministry's budgetary and
control functions. In addition, consideration needs to be given to increasing
the efficiency of the economic enterprises and their contribution to the bud-
get through improved management, including introduction of sound accounting
practices (for which a law was passed in 1974) and control, as well as im-
proved efficiency in production. The State Planning Commission is presently
studying capacity utilization in agriculture, industry and transport with
a view towards finding means of increasing growth through improved utilization
of existing capacity rather than new investments. With a large number of
projects (particularly in industry), expected to come on-stream over the next
few years, the scope of raising output to optimum use of capacity appear quite
substantial. The Government has also sought UNDP assistance in planning.
While these efforts are expected to have only a small impact during the Fourth
Five Year Plan, they are likely to yield considerable fruits in the long run.
9.        The shortage of skilled manpower may cause bottlenecks in project
implementation. The uneven spatial distribution of employment is also likely
to pose problems as a large proportion of public investment in agriculture and
industry is to take place in the Northeast, where the population density is
much lower than in the Western Coastal belt. Measures will be required to
attract population and to provide sufficient skilled manpower to the Northeast



- 4 -
region. The overall manpower situation and the difficulties currently en-
countered in fostering an efficient public administration and public economic
sector are exacerbated by emigration of trained technicians and skilled
labour abroad and the outflow of trained manpower from the public sector to
the private sector as a result of wide wage differentials. To alleviate
the shortages the Government will provide extensive training facilities for
augmenting the supply of skilled manpower. It may however have to revamp
the structure of incentives so as to enable the public sector to attract and
retain an efficient cadre of administrators, technicians and other skilled
workers. While the Government is fully committed to increasing productive
employment opportunities, there is an urgent need to formulate a coherent
employment strategy consistent with the Fourth Plan investment strategy.
10.       Syria's economic prospects depend heavily on the availability of
financial resources and also on absorptive capacity in the various sectors.
Tentative Bank projections indicate that considering these constraints, an
investment program totalling around SL 35 billion in constant 1975 prices is
likely to be achieved during the 1976-80 period. At this level, investment
would be consonant with the Government's concern for improving the quality of
investments. It would generate real GDP growth around 7 percent yearly during
the period, which is somewhat below the recent growth record (8 percent). The
sources of growth in the late 1970's are likely to be the manufacturing and
construction sectors, with agricultural production stabilized at higher levels,
rather than mining and commerce which were the leading growth sectors during
the Third Plan.
11.       On Bank assumptions, the requirements of a growing aggregate demand
would entail an increase in the current account deficit from $580 million in
1976 to $1,220 million in 1980. The Government is expected to implement
strong measures to improve domestic resource mobilization, following the
studies currently underway, so as to close the savings-investment gap, and
thereby the resource gap; and a turnaround in the increasing deficit position
may be expected in the late 1980's. Assuming current transfers to increase
in 1977-78 and decrease thereafter, gross external borrowing requirements over
the Fourth Plan period are estimated to be $4.0 billion. Syria can probably
mobilize most of this from official sources and obtain the remainder from
commercial sources.
12.       At the end of 1976, external public debt outstanding and disbursed,
excluding military debt, was estimated to be around $970 million (14 percent
of GDP) of which 80 percent was held by Governments (28 percent, OPEC; and 47
percent, centrally planned economies), and 4 percent by multilateral organi-
zations (exclusively the World Bank Group). Debt service payments in 1976
amounted to only 10.6 percent of exports (including NFS). With assumed new
borrowing, debt and debt service would rise significantly. By 1980, Bank
projections indicate that debt could reach 30 percent of GDP while debt serv-
ice would be around 16 percent of exports. Beyond 1980, the effect of poli-
cies emphasizing exports (para. 6) would stabilize the relative burden of
debt service at a manageable level of around 20 percent of exports. Syria is
therefore creditworthy for continued Bank lending.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
13.       Syria has to date received four IDA credits totalling US$47.3
million and eight loans totalling US$249.1 million (including one loan of
US$12.5 million on Third Window terms), net of cancellations. Although
Syria is a member of the Corporation, IFC has made no investments. At the
end of 1976 the Bank Group accounted for 4 percent of Syria's total out-
standing public debt; by 1980 it is expected to account for 10 percent of
total outstanding public debt and 7 percent of public debt service obliga-
tions. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loans
as of April 30, 1977.
14.       Project implementation has generally suffered substantial delays
due largely to circumstances beyond Syria's control. The 1973 hostilities
brought works to a standstill and diverted the country's resources first
to military, then to reconstruction tasks; the unsettled conditions in the
region and weaknesses in the administrative system caused project implementa-
tion to be slow. The above developments were compounded by the high rate of
world inflation and generated considerable cost overruns in most projects.
As a result the composition of the Damascus Water Supply and Mehardeh Power
Projects had to be revised and additional financing secured. In the case
of the Balikh Project, the Government obtained a $50 million loan from the
Government of Iran and has undertaken to provide the Bank with a new finan-
cing plan for the project. In the case of the Second Highway Project, the
Government obtained a $45.9 million loan from USAID to finance one of the
components originally included in the project and has decided to upgrade the
project roads to four lane standards. Recent progress in project implemen-
tation has been encouraging; contracting and construction is well underway for
most projects although the Damascus Water Supply Projects will require close
coordination of the works financed by different donors.
15.       Lending for infrastructure accounted for over two-thirds of Bank
Group lending to Syria thus far. It aimed at fostering well designed sector
policies and strengthening various public institutions in charge of power,
water supply, highways and telecommunications. The objective of lending for
irrigation development (Balikh Project) was to help increase and stabilize
agricultural production and farmers' incomes which are subject to wide fluc-
tuations under rainfed conditions. The livestock development project for
which a loan was approved earlier in FY77 provides for fundamental improve-
ments in feed and flock management policy as well as credit to sheep farmers,
most of whom are among Syria's poor nomadic population, with an aim to in-
creasing and stabilizing incomes in the sheep subsector throughout Syria.
Due to delays in selecting and appointing consultants, this loan has not yet
become effective.
16.       A diversification of lending operations in Syria is envisaged
through a gradual shift of emphasis away from long gestation infrastructure
projects, except where they are of utmost social priority (e.g., education and
the provision of basic urban services, such as water supply), toward quicker
yielding projects in the directly productive (agricultural and industrial)



- 6 -
sectors. This would be in support of the Government's Fourth Five-Year Plan
(1976-80) strategy of developing the country's productive capacity and im-
proving its social and physical infrastructure. However, project preparation
according to Bank standards remains a serious constraint in these sectors.
17.       Negotiations have recently been completed for an education project,
which provides for facilities for teacher training and vocational and tech-
nical training, and for related technical assistance. A tourism project,
providing for hotel training and technical assistance to the sector, and a
rural electrification project, which would be part of the Government's rural
electrification program covering all of Syria, have or are presently being
appraised. Preparation has also begun for a third highway project, which
would include the construction and/or upgrading of high priority road sections;
for an irrigation/drainage project, providing for the rehabilitation of salt-
affected lands in the lower Euphrates area; and for agro-industry (cotton
seed processing), industry (rehabilitation of textile plants), rainfed agri-
culture (integrated development in the northeastern region), and sewerage
facilities (for Damascus, Hama, Homs).
18.       The lending activities described above would help to improve project
preparation and implementation, especially in those sectors in which the Bank
has not been previously involved, and strengthen sector policies and institu-
tions. The proposed operations will include significant technical assistance
and training components to achieve the above objectives.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
19.       Although substantial surface and groundwater resources are avail-
able in Syria, the scarcity of water supplies is a present and growing problem
in some regions as a result of the unbalanced distribution of the resources
(annual rainfall varies between 50 mm and 1,000 mm in the different areas
of the country) and the rapid increase in population (3.3 percent per annum)
which reached 7.4 million by 1975. Growth in urban population has been above
average and rural-to-urban migration significant. Some 45 percent of total
population now resides in urban areas, where, generally, water transmission
and distribution systems are overburdened and sewerage facilites inadequate.
Two main rivers are utilized for public water supplies, the Euphrates, which
serves Aleppo and towns in the northeast, and Orontes, which serves the
central area; there are also a number of important aquifers, one of which
feeds the Figeh spring supplying Damascus.
20.       In Damascus, IDA and the Bank have assisted in the financing of
projects designed to improve and expand the distribution and supply systems
(Credit 401 for $15 million in FY73 and Loan 1241 for $35 million in FY76).
Financing for these projects is also provided by the Arab Fund ($41.3 million)
and USAID (two loans totalling $62.5 million). The Credit/Loan also include
funds for a study of measures to reduce pollution in the Orontes and Barada
rivers, including sewage treatment facilities in Damascus, Homs and Hama, and



- 7 -
for training of staff of the city's water supply authority. Construction of
the components financed by the Bank Group is generally well underway. A close
coordination of the works financed by the various donors will be required to
permit the timely link-up of the various components of the supply and distribu-
tion system and to minimize expected delays in implementation of the project
components financed by other donors. The total project, when completed (1982),
would meet the anticipated demand until 1987.
21.       In Aleppo, the principal manufacturing and trading city in northern
Syria, the population served by Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep (EPEA)
with water from the Lake Assad reservoir (some 80 km east of the city on the
Euphrates river) has increased from about 640,000 in 1970 to over one million
in 1976. Because of the rapid growth in demand, severe shortages of water
during summer have occurred since 1973; the temporary shut off of supplies in
rotation results in serious health hazards from back syphoning. The partial
completion, by mid-1977 of the second phase of supply works, which involved a
duplication of the original scheme completed in 1967, should remedy this situa-
tion, but without further works, supply would become inadequate again by 1981.
The city's sewerage system is in poor condition. Most of the population is
connected to sewers but there is no treatment.
22.       At the central Government level, the responsibility for water supply
and sewerage both in urban and rural areas is shared between the Ministries of
Housing and Utilities (MHU) and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). While
MLG has overall responsiblity for the services provided by the municipalities,
MHU provides general guidance and assistance on technical matters.    Eight
major cities, including Aleppo have semi-autonomous water authorities, which
are subject to close Government control on such matters as tariffs, budget,
personnel, salaries and capital investment. Municipalities are responsible for
the operation and management of sewerage systems, and outside the major cities
for management of the water supply systems.
23.       At present, about 70 percent of the urban population is served by
metered house connections; the remainder depends upon private wells, public
taps and water vendors. Service levels for urban poor within city limits are
generally satisfactory. In 1975, an estimated 60 percent of the rural popula-
tion had reasonable access to safe water, compared to 50 percent in 1970. At
present, about 75 percent of urban dwellings have some form of sewerage serv-
ice; however, there are no sewage treatment plants and most of the networks
discharge raw sewage into rivers, streams or the sea. No organized disposal
systems are available to the majority of the rural population.
24.       The Government objectives in the sector, as reflected in the Fourth
Five Year Plan (1976-80), are: to increase the house-connection of urban
dwellings to 80 percent, and the rural population with reasonable access to
safe water to 70 percent; to improve the quality of service; and to give
priority to sewerage in order to reduce pollution of major water sources. The
cost of the program for the water supply and sewerage sector is estimated at
LS 2,616.5 (US$662.5) million in 1975 prices, of which LS 1,552.0 (US$393)
million would be allocated to the eight existing public water authorities, LS
924 (US$234) million to water supply for other municipalities and rural areas



- 8 -
and LS 140.5 (US$35.5) million for sewerage. The Government plans to further
decentralize the responsibilities for urban water supply through the estab-
lishment of public water authorities in the other six provincial capitals.
25.       A Bank water supply and sewerage sector mission visited Syria in
November/December 1976. Its findings and recommendations will be discussed
with the Government shortly. The mission reviewed the Government's sector
program and concluded that two principal factors are likely to constrain
investments in the sector. The first is the shortage of professional and
skilled manpower resulting from the absence of water supply and sewerage train-
ing programs and the low salary levels in the public sector, which causes an
outflow of trained manpower to the private sector and out-migration of skilled
individuals to neighboring oil-exporting countries. The program for the estab-
lishment of a national water supply and sewerage center and training of staff
is supported by financial and technical assistance from the Arab Fund and the
Bank. Secondly, the financial constraints of the Government resulting from
recent developments, will possibly result in a reduction of the sector program
envisaged in the Fourth Five Year Plan (see para 24 above), even though these
constraints will be somewhat alleviated by the recent increases in tariffs and
other charges for water supply which will enable water authorities to generate
cash surpluses to meet part of their investment needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       The source of Aleppo's water is the Lake Assad reservoir on the
Euphrates River. Raw water quality has been good, although occasional high
turbidities and seasonal algae infestation have occurred. After treatment at
the intake, gravity flow aqueducts bring the water to the city where it is
further treated prior to distribution. The first phase of the supply system
was completed in 1967; the second phase is expected to be completed by 1977
and will bring the quantity of water supplied to Aleppo to 180,000 m3/d.
EPEA's system has been operated efficiently and water losses have averaged
a reasonable 30 percent of total production and 24 percent of water pumped
to the city.
27.       The population served by EPEA grew at 8.2 percent per annum between
1970 and 1976 as a result of natural growth, rural-to-urban migration and
extensions of the supply area. Severe shortages of water have occurred in
summer since 1973; this necessitated shutting off supplies in rotation and
caused serious health hazards from back-syphoning. About one million people
are presently served by the system; about 900,000, or 90 percent, have direct
house connections. By 1976, domestic consumption accounted for about 75 per-
cent of all water consumed and per capita daily consumption amounted to 84
liters; it is expected to increase to 90 liters in 1977 when ongoing supply
works will be completed and present constraints will be removed. However,
without further works supply would become inadequate again by 1981.



- 9 -
28.       The sewerage system is operated by the Public Works Department of
the Municipality of Aleppo and financed from the municipal budget. It serves,
at no charge, approximately 80 percent of the municipal population; of the re-
mainder, 10 percent rely on septic tanks. Most of the system was constructed
in the last 60 years but the main interceptors were built in the 1940's. Sur-
charging occurs frequently as a result of the rapid development of the city.
The system is in poor condition. All flow is by gravity into three inter-
ceptors which discharge undiluted raw sewage into the Quwaik River, which is
used for contact irrigation. During periods of very low flow, this creates
serious health problems which periodically reach epidemic proportions. In
Lattakia, there is a need to relocate the present sewage outfalls because of
a proposed port expansion, and to extend the system to serve planned tourist
and industrial development areas. The proposed project, provides for feas-
ibility studies of the sewage collection systems in Aleppo and Lattakia and
preliminary engineering studies for sewage treatment and disposal to be under-
taken by consultants.
29.       Preparations for the project's main component consisting of the
third phase of works for meeting the rapidly increasing demand for water in
Aleppo, were undertaken by EPEA. A Bank identification mission visited Syria
in May 1976. The project was appraised by a Bank mission to Syria in November/
December 1976. Negotiations were held on May 9-16, 1977 in Washington, D.C..
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Moharram Tayarra, Minister of Housing
and Utilities, and EPEA was represented by Mr. Abdul Latif Breydi, General
Director.
Objectives
30.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:   (i) expand the water
source and transmission facilities to meet anticipated demand until about 1991;
(ii) reinforce distribution and thereby improve minimum pressures and reduce
risks of pollution within the system; (iii) extend the supply into fringe areas
of the city occupied mainly by the urban poor; (iv) improve project implementa-
tion capacity and operations of EPEA; (v) prepare sewerage and sewage treatment
projects for Aleppo and Lattakia; and (vi) improve construction sector planning
capabilities in the Ministry of Planning and the administration of public con-
struction enterprises.
Project Description
31.       The water supply component comprises the expansion of the intake,
transmission and treatment facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo and extensions
to the distribution system; it consists of the following elements: (i) a
third gravity aqueduct 75 km long to convey 220,000 m3/d and pumping mains
to deliver 110,000 m3/d; (ii) pumping facilities at the Lake Assad intake to
produce 220,000 m3/d and extensions to pumping and treatment facilities at
existing stations to produce an additional 110,000 m3/d with provision for an
increase to 220,000 m3/d; (iii) additional service reservoirs, with a combined
capacity of 100,000 m3; (iv) distribution mains to serve areas occupied by
urban poor and areas where future growth is planned; (v) auxiliary buildings,
administrative offices, transportation and office equipment; (vi) consulting



- 10 -
services (about 800 man-months) for studies (see para. 44 below), review of
construction methods, preparation of detailed design of works and bidding
documents, bid evaluation and supervision of construction; and (vii) training
of professional and technical staff.
32.       The project also provides for about 200 man-months of consulting
services for studies for the preparation of sewerage and sewage treatment
projects in Aleppo and Lattakia; and about 40 man-months of consulting services
to assist the State Planning Commission in the collection and analysis of data
on construction resources and building materials in Syria, and to provide tech-
nical assistance to the Syrian public construction enterprises in cost account-
ing, equipment repair and warehousing. The proposed assistance to the con-
struction sector would aim at improving its structure and operations to ensure
that the investment program in the water supply and sewerage sector, as well
as in other sectors, can be implemented timely and effectively.
Cost Estimates
33.       The estimated cost of the various project items, expressed in June
1977 prices, are given in detail in the Loan and Project Summary. Total proj-
ect cost would be $116.8 million, of which $58.4 million, or 50 percent would
be in foreign exchange. The major element of cost is the aqueduct, the cost
estimates for which have been based on the design and construction methods
similar to those for previous aqueducts. Physical contingencies (15 percent
of base cost estimates) and price contingencies (26 percent of base cost esti-
mates plus physical contingencies) would amount to $35.6 million, or 30 per-
cent of total project cost.
Financing Plan
34.       The Bank loan of $50 million would finance 43 percent of the total
cost of the project, as described in paras. 31 and 32 above, net of duties and
taxes. Of the proposed Bank loan to the Government $48.5 million would be on-
lent to EPEA, and would cover 85 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the
water supply component (para. 31 above). The on-lending terms provide for a
maturity of not less than 17 and not more than 20 years, including not less
than 3-1/2 and not more than 4-1/2 years of grace, at interest rate of 8.2
percent. This flexibility in on-lending terms will permit the Government to
make the loan proceeds available to EPEA at terms somewhat closer to those
for Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh (Damascus) under Loan 1241 approved
in FY 1976. The $1.5 million balance of the Bank loan would finance the foreign
exchange component of the proposed sewerage studies and technical assistance
(para. 32 above), for which the Government would provide local cost financing.
EPEA's overall financing requirements for capital works over the 1978-82 con-
struction period, which in addition to the project would include $6.6 million
for secondary distribution works, would amount to $121.6 million and, aside
from the Bank loan, would be financed through EPEA net cash generation of
$20.8 million and through a Government equity contribution of $52.3 million
equivalent.



Financial Situation
35.       EPEA has a good financial record and has thus far generated a sub-
stantial proportion of its investments requirements. For 1973-1976, EPEA's
operating ratio averaged about 54 percent and its rate of return on average
net fixed assets about 10 percent. In recent years, increases in operating
costs have exceeded those of revenues, as a result of inflation and the lack
of tariff increases over nearly two decades; this has caused a deterioration
in EPEA's financial performance. However, the recently implemented new tariffs
and charges for water supply (see para 37 below) will result in a considerable
improvement in EPEA's financial performance (see para 38 below).
36.       EPEA's debt/equity ratio increased from 30/70 in 1973 to 49/51 in
1976 as a result of borrowing from the Government's Public Debt Fund (PDF) to
finance the second phase of supply works. At the end of 1976 long term loans,
solely from the PDF, amounted to LS 80 (US$20 million).
37.       EPEA has recently (May 1977) implemented new tariffs and charges for
water supply. The water rates in effect prior to May 1977, which had remained
unchanged since 1959, yielded an average of LS 0.30/m3. Together with other
charges, the new rates of LS 0.60/m3 for household consumption and LS 0.75/m3
for non-household consumption, will yield revenues of LS 1.10/m3 (compared to
about LS 0.55/m3 prior to May 1977). In order to maintain an acceptable finan-
cial performance and to generate a reasonable contribution to the investment
program, EPEA would set and collect rates for the sale of water not below the
present levels; as a minimum, these rates, together with revenues from other
charges on water supply, would cover in each year, operating expenses (exclud-
ing depreciation), debt service and increased working capital, plus during the
period 1978-82 at least 15 percent, and beginning in 1983, at least 35 percent
of the three-year average investment cost, computed over one actual and two
forecast years (Section 4.03(a) of Project Agreement and Section 4.04 of Loan
Agreement). By not later than September 30 of each year EPEA would review the
adequacy of its tariffs for the next year on this basis. The results of these
reviews would be furnished to the Bank (Section 4.03(b) of Project Agreement).
It is expected that no tariff increases will be required until 1982 to generate
the agreed contribution to the average investment program. If and when future
upward adjustments in tariffs and charges are required, EPEA would ensure that
such adjustments would be higher for large consumers, which represent the
higher income groups, than for consumers of small quantities of water, which
represent the poorer segment of the population. This would allow an equitable
application of future tariffs and the gradual introduction of progressive rate
schedules.
38'.      With the new tariffs and charges, EPEA's rate of return on net fixed
assets is expected to be somewhat above 12 percent during any of the years 1977
through 1981; thereafter it would decline as project works are added to fixed
assets. However, with the increased utilization of the project facilities, the
rate of return would steadily increase again between 1983 and 1991, provided
tariffs are maintained in real terms. During this period only minor invest-
ments in pumps and treatment will be required for full utilization of the
transmission works. EPEA's debt/equity ratio is projected at about 40/60



- 12 -
during the period 1977-82. The debt service coverage is projected at 1.7 in
1981 and 1.2 in 1984. EPEA would not incur any further loans unless its net
cash generation, before depreciation and interest, exceeds 1.5 times its debt
service in any future year, including debt service on the amount to be bor-
rowed from the proposed Bank loan (Section 4.04 of Project Agreement).
Management and Organization
39.       Service des Eaux d'Alep was established in 1947 and was transformed
into the Establissement Public des Eaux d'Alep (EPEA) in 1975 under a decree
establishing a semi-autonomous authority for the water supply of the city of
Aleppo and villages along the transmission pipeline from Lake Assad. EPEA is
fairly autonomous in its day-to-day operations and is managed by a Board of
Directors comprising a President-Director General, four department managers
and a workers' representative. The Minister of Housing as well as, in some
cases, the Prime Minister's Office are involved in major decisions (see para 22
above). To expedite the implementation of ongoing investment works a project
committee under the Governor of Aleppo, was established by Presidential Decree
in 1975 for a period of three years ending January 1978. This committee has
wide ranging power in matters of procurement, project execution and commis-
sioning. The operation of this committee would be extended to cover the
proposed project (Section 4.02 of Loan Agreement).
40.       Five department managers report directly to the Director General
who is responsible for executing Board decisions. EPEA's top management is
an experienced, qualified and efficient team. EPEA's total staff of 756
includes 16 engineers, 15 other professional staff and 725 skilled and un-
skilled workers. The operating staff is competent and experienced, but spe-
cialized training in such areas as system design, treatment plant operation,
distribution system analysis, quality control, budgetting and accounting is
required and is provided for under the proposed project. EPEA would prepare
a training program for its professional staff and submit such program to the
Bank for comment prior to June 30, 1978 (Section 2.04 of Project Agreement).
EPEA's staff is presently housed in several inadequate buildings throughout
the city which results in lack of communication and inefficiency. The pro-
posed project therefore provides for the construction of a new EPEA office
building.
41.       EPEA's budget, including proposed levels of staff, requires Govern-
ment approval. Temporary workers can be hired for a period of less than six
months. EPEA's annual staff turnover is only 1.5 percent as a result of Gov-
ernment restrictions on resignation and transfer of staff. EPEA has recently
been unable to fill a number of vacancies mainly due to the low levels of
public sector salaries. In order to ensure effective project implementation
the Government would permit EPEA to be adequately staffed at all times with
experienced and qualified personnel (Section 3.02 (b) of Loan Agreement). How-
ever, in view of the overall shortage of technicians, especially in the public
sector (see para 9 above), and given the scope of the proposed project works,
there will nevertheless be a need for EPEA to employ a substantial number of
engineering consultants to assist in project implementation (Section 2.03 of
Project Agreement).



- 13 -
42.       EPEA's accounts are kept satisfactorily on a commercial basis in
accordance with a unified accounting system introduced in 1974. The billing
of customers on a two month-cycle, and the collection of accounts are satis-
factory. However, office equipment is old and inadequate and the proposed
project provides for its replacement and expansion. EPEA's internal auditing
is weak and external auditing by the Ministry of Finance has thus far taken
place with long delays. EPEA would engage auditors acceptable to the Bank to
undertake an annual audit of its accounts for 1977 and onwards (Section 4.02
of Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
43.       Project implementation will be carried out by EPEA with the assis-
tance of consultants. Construction of project works, except for new intake
pumps to be installed in 1977, is scheduled to start towards the end of 1978.
All works would be completed by the end of 1981. EPEA has agreed on the
critical dates of the project construction schedule and would establish and
maintain systems to produce performance and progress indicators to monitor the
project implementation schedule and would report relevant information to the
Bank within three months of the end of each quarter (Section 3.02 (c) of Proj-
ect Agreement).
Status of Engineering
44.       The proposed third phase of supply works would be a duplication of
the schemes used by EPEA for the earlier phases of the works. The necessary
land and way leaves are already owned by EPEA. Consulting engineers will be
employed to review various techniques of constructing the proposed alternative
and to prepare detailed designs and bidding documents. Because of the deposi-
tion of silt at the intake which has rendered two out of three gates inopera-
tive, EPEA would engage consultants to undertake studies to determine the
extent of the silting problem. In view of the potential risk of flooding of
pump motors at the intake, EPEA would engage consultants to investigate and
advise on actions to minimize this risk. On the basis of the studies on silt-
ing and the protection of intake pumps, the Government would take measures
required to prolong the life of the intake (Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement).
EPEA would also engage consultants to design water treatment plants, taking
into account the changes in water quality which have occurred since the con-
struction of Lake Assad. The commencement of work by all consultants referred
to above would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of Loan
Agreement and Section 2.03 of Project Agreement). Finally, to ensure adequate
planning and the least cost-scheme for the extensions to the distribution
works (see para 51 below), EPEA would engage consulting engineers to analyze
the existing system and review alternatives for its extension (Sections 2.02
and 2.03 of Project Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Contracts for civil works (amounting to about US$61 million includ-
ing contingencies) and for materials and equipment (amounting to about US$43
million including contingencies) would be awarded following international



- 14 -
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines, except for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$300,000. These contracts, the total of which
would not exceed in aggegate US$5.0 million, would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. In bid
comparison, local manufacturers of equipment and materials, to be procured
under ICB, would be allowed a margin of preference equal to 15 percent of
CIF price or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
46.       Bidders for civil works contracts are expected to include public
construction enterprises which under their charter are exempt from normal
supervision by the employer. The Government has agreed that for a public
construction enterprise to be qualified for bidding, the Government would,
for the purpose of the project, waive this provision in its charter (Section
2.03 of Loan Agreement and Schedule I of Project Agreement). In addition under
Syrian legislation public construction enterprises are exempt from posting bid
bonds and performance bonds. The Government has agreed that tender calls will
require bidders to state the cost of bid bonds and performance bonds as sepa-
rate items and that the cost of these will be deducted from the amount of the
tenders when comparing tenders which include those from public enterprises
(Section 2.03 of Loan Agreement and Schedule I of Project Agreement).
Disbursement
47.       The proposed loan of US$50 million would be disbursed on the basis
of the following percentages:
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and materials;
(ii) 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment
and materials;
(iii) 70 percent of total expenditures for locally procured imported
equipment and materials;
(iv) 25 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consulting services,
technical assistance and training.
The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
Disbursement is expected to be completed by the middle of 1982.
Project Justification and Risks
48.       Environmental and Health Impacts.   The high incidence of water-borne
diseases in the Aleppo area arises in part from the following causes: (i)
because of severe shortages in water supply during the past three summers,
large sections of the supply area have been turned off in rotation resulting
in back-syphoning of polluted groundwater into the distribution system; (ii)
outlying urban areas cannot be provided with piped supplies until increased



- 15 -
source facilities are available; (iii) during periods of water shortage the
supply is supplemented by untreated water from private wells, the quality of
which is not continuously monitored. With the completion of the second phase
of the supply works in 1977, those health hazards should come to an end; they
would, however, recur in 1981 when demand would again exceed supply if the
third phase is not implemented. A further health risk in the area arises from
the present lack of sewage treatment and the use for irrigation of water from
the Quwaik River containing a high proportion of raw sewage.
49.       The relatively small proportion of the Euphrates water taken for
public supply to Aleppo raises no riparian or environmental problems; at
maximum capacity, expected to be reached beyond 1990, the extraction of water
would amount to 80 million m3 per year for the proposed project which, includ-
ing works under operation or construction, would bring total extraction to 160
million m3 per year, or about 0.5 percent of the total average annual inflow
of 29.4 billion m3 at Lake Assad. Although the increased supply will increase
the volume of sewage discharged to the Quwaik River, planned improvements in
the sewerage system, including sewage treatment, will eliminate any serious
health risks from this source.
50.       Demand.  The population served is expected to grow at 3.3 percent
p.a. and per capita consumption, which is very low at present (para 27), is
expected to increase by 3 percent p.a. Industrial water use, presently only
3 percent of the total, is expected to increase rapidly with the completion,
in the near future, of a new industrial estate, and would amount to 20 per-
cent of total water use by the early 1980's. Total water demand is expected
to increase by about 9 percent p.a. between 1977 and 1984. Without the proj-
ect, supplies would become inadequate by 1981.
51.       Least-Cost Solution.   The only proven major source of water avail-
able for Aleppo is from Lake Assad on the Euphrates River. The project cost
estimates are based on the duplication of existing supply works with staged
construction where appropriate and extensions to the main distribution system.
After careful consideration of construction alternatives it was found that the
proposed solution for this stage of the works represents the least cost solu-
tion primarily because it takes full advantage of an existing tunnel under the
city and existing intake works which were built with capacity for the proposed
project. Consultants will assist EPEA in preparing detailed designs for the
proposed alternative and in analyzing the existing distribution system to
optimize the design of the reinforcement and extensions to outlying areas.
52.       Economic Analysis.   The most important benefits associated with the
provision of a reliable and safe water supply are health-related. These would
be-partially revealed through medical cost saving, a general improvement in
individual well-being and a cost saving to and/or increased productivity of
business enterprises. Because of their nature and the absence of reliable
information,-these benefits cannot be quantified. Using the value of sales
of incremental water supply from the project (at present tariffs and charges)
as a minimal measure of economic benefits, the project would have an internal
economic rate of return of 10 percent. The average revenues from water sales
of LS 1.10/m3 resulting from the recently introduced new tariffs and charges



- 16 -
(see paragraph 37 above), are virtually equal to the long-term marginal cost
of water in Aleppo, which has been estimated at about LS 1.14/m3, at a dis-
count rate of 10 percent (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Syria).
53.       Risks.  Measures to be taken to ensure satisfactory project comple-
tion are those normally found in a typical water supply project. The technical
design content of the project is similar to work already completed by EPEA, and
with assistance of consultants, implementation should pose no major problem.
EPEA is a long established organization which has shown that it can perform
effectively, and the training, techniques and control methods to be introduced
through the project will assist in strengthening EPEA's operational capabili-
ties. Consequently, the proposed project poses no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and the Bank,
the Project Agreement between the Bank and Etablissement Public des Eaux
d'Alep, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft re-
solution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the Agreements of special interest are
described in Annex III. The commencement of work by consultants (Section 6.01
(c) of Loan Agreement) would be an additional condition of effectiveness.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
56.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1977



4-4. C 
-s                          .~~~~~~~~~~M t  m  t  LI Il  I t      iIt I IS
* h 
*                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  'Iwo             S
P-4  . . :    ~~~~-1l  -1  ~~        ~  1~    ~    
a  we                              ..a.-o a i   C 0 -I   C C O C.O i  O 0 0 CI   V  0 - CI - C - - 0 9 0
MI I ta f  ta1  s-Cat  * nt0 zI               t   1-  **        ItS -  ..I   -  4  01  -  -  :
2   IC                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%  tt I 1:I  t I  I  ttt.
a~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mv
CI  *  0  0  cc~~~~~1  O- 040 f  C  SP   m N  c  . CI C-  0  I 0 0  0    0-Cft
~~~.: -                   v~~~~~~~~- -    0-c                           - 
5*                                  It                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft mW! t 0
a.                                                              SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
cm                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~0 .  I V .;
I.. S                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~ -:-I  &  I~vM
aI   Ia.  a   co   coCoa  C  i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..  eea  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *  - D.
aCe  00  .                    ft.0 0 00
o                                                                               I.x&  I 
M - -I  IsI
a  *.   a.   -  -   C  Ca  00          051~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~au  Z Z  --OS..m  -   C7   a  aaW"S
~~~~~Ia   S                               .a -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~df. a  . W A
-4-4      -9-4             ' ~9- ~   wS
s.c  a  cc a- *nc  C  *10=  -  Cow.           C  COO    0  C 00  - 0      oa
*  S.  an  ma  C  *  00  o*            cC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s a  CUf  5   Ca a 
'en:v  a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o N     lo       Ia



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
unlees othorulee noted. dat. for 1960 refor to any year betwee           1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968       and 1970, and for Moat Recent E-ertesc       between
1973 end 1975
00  Algeria haa beet .e leccd atno objecttoo coun.try o          the beet, of the etilarity to the        cnmcoretatn               of the tot .. coc irte, rich the lending
roeI aItall  f-notion a...igoed to the pub ic setr,ed the ettetltrity to the gr... repcod-tttos                 rent  and age structure of the tcc populetl...
etcl n,the distributIonof population to urbnres             and the labor fortes it agrtcultutal         iploynent).
SYRIANi ARAB Rff.      1960     I    6 years of ege end meet;        lb  Syrrian popal.acte   only;     /n   1962;     /d   Incladiog nidwi-ne        /0   1961-62.
1970     /a  Syrian populetlen     onlyl     /b  Iecludin   ndice       aenietant nidis-n     and a..setenet ocae          c   1964-66,
Id 1ocludiog UN11WA schoo..I
HOST RECENT ESTIKATE:        /.  1971;      Ib  1970-75 end 70-74 for arhee grmath;          /c   Including Pale1-  tani.  refage..c      /d   1972;
/0   Including niwoe        strn        idwl-n   end aesiereat nure...;       If   1969-71 averge;
Z    Inotudlg IRMlgA schools;       lb   Ratta of population wider 15 and 65 and ove         to toteS labor force
TLyNISS                1970     /a   Su  to onigretio, population groth rate io laster than the rate of natural increase;                  lb  1956-66,      /c   1966,
Id   geti Lof poPolaci-onuder 15 and 65 and evr to touta           Saber force'      /e  Cevertog 4.5 cillion     hactaree of privete
lend, eacluding 0.8 mIllio, heatares in public        -ea-hlp, and 2.1 nillion       hagoarea of collective    leand;     If  Pereonme
to g"vemast nevieewly;               Gj oveest beapita1 natabliahinnta           wily;      lb  1964-66;      /I   Ragieterd only.
TuORREY                1970     /a  tacldfia    17 a..nter   previ.ces;      lb  1965-67;      Lc   1665-70;     Id   Ratio of populetion onder 10 and 65 end ovr to
lbabr forc    15 yeare and over        I.   15 years mand ovr, encludiog uwployed;            If  Regietrerd only,        a&  Diepoeeble
income;      lb  Inoludiog.. aeiatant nureec and nidwi-s;          /1   196,4-66;     /I  person    sic years, ed    -or who tall the
C.e-n tabot, that the y can re ad and write,
Al-OtRIA               1970     I    1966,     lb   ncluding military pereonnel in barracka and 274,663 nainaearoad of wh- 229,020 are oconmtclly
acctvs, als  aecludlog1,210,000 fenlee naily occupied in agriculture,            /c  1964-66;      /d   Total, urban cod rural,
Ie nlding nidwio-       and aesinoat     uset
0L5, Jeocery 12, 1971
DEINmITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Laud Area (thou An2 )                                                                        Poulation roell ure in   perc    - Ppulatioc divided by tubrbo       of practicing
Total - Total aufc        rscnren            edaraadIln             aes                        a     n  foa      r grduate, turee,  'tr-t-d" or     certifi.lod  ouen     and
gAKIt.otrcn              nlet      forcltrn           iaue       epoaiyo                       nilry perecone1 with training oe exporiecce.
permaneci ly for crops, p-et-re, narbet &kitchen garden, or to lie                       Poeclati,on par boh   lalbed - Population divided by ounber of huepita1 bode
M..lo.                                                                                     aritabl    in publIc o.       roc     eea     eod epeialiae,d hoepita"     and
rehab ilitatio      not      ..;co lde  aring home    adocbliahc,tot        for
GNr per capita luc5) - GNP for cepita astn          satcretnrbet pricee,                      cuetodia1 and prevettIce car.
ceclae   by     tom c--eeion method an World Beak Atlaa (1973-75 baeis)            Per cagite     pply of caloric, (7. of requiremets) - Cocpotod from eorgy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                                   eqIvaLen--t of ont food eupplin. evalable in coun.try per capita perday;
avileble suppline tonprise. doneetic prod-ctioc, laiprLa lees nopocte,
Puuaio  n  ital ettiatice                                                            and chane     in stack;ot euphic        ocld     1aia     feed ,oede, quanit!-
Povulaioc (id-yr  nilloc) -As of July firet:    if not avilable,tn                          sdi      odpoeslo.o             oeei        itluie         roqirota
avru  rftocdyert        iae,16,          95ad17          aa                          waron   tinated by PAO bhas.d on phyeiologlca1 toa ds for normal activity
and heal thbconeidering    e            Iiocoa  tiporatur-, body osighte, age and
Populotoc densty - p.r.squar  km - Old-yea    population per square kilo-              en  dietribotione of popuSa ticn, and al1o-ing 117. for caste at hou.e-
mo,      1tor10  cce)o      1oa    area,                                                    hold level.
Puculatiun density - per square km of Artc. land - Computed ae aboa for                     per cap It  epplZ of protein (gram       per day) - Protein content of per
agiutr lelnd ocly.                                                                  capitatnet auppy of food per day; not nupply of food Ie defined ae
abmoreuiommt        for  nlco      iri secabliehed by BSDAE.t.nnl
Oct01 otaciecice                                                    Reeceech~~~~~~~~~~ Seric  proideIfor  niitm   aluac       of 60 fenc    of total
Cru2de bir th rate per thocaacd, averge - Mince1 lIve birtha pot thocasod                     proteic pnr day,    and.20 gram    of animal codpus       prti,o         hich
ofmid-yea    ppultin;ceoyer..i...l ovrge                    ening in 1960 end              10 grame eh.ad be anIal pruteic; thean standards ur             lower than th...
1970, end floe-ye ravera        enrdin  in195fo       not resd    etimt,o%5ga,o                               oa     rti     and 23 grams of animl protein ge an
C-1v d-eth rote per thooseod,.aerg-1AnnualI deetha per thmcae-d of nid-                       averge for the world, propoe..d by PAO in the Third World Pond Suc-ry.
ycar .yPu"aior      c  -yea,ra.r ithoetic, averegeeedingit!1960 ad 1970 and               Pee capitaf prtineupp!Lyfr- aImal and polee - pro toin eupply offood
fiveyearaverge ediogic   975f fr cocrecn         sti_n                             dne       frma     nls    ndpseingram, per day.
bigfat mortality rate  thou)       Annua   deaths of inant, under one year of             Death rate C(/thou) aces 1-4 - Anua. Id-athe per thb...a-d in age group
age per thouoend    Ive births.                                                             14 years    to children in chic age group, suggested as an indicator of
'if, corer lan    at birth (Y..) - Averago nunber of ycare of lif. reouciing                  malntritio..
at birth, usualy five-year      -vreges en ding im 1960, 1970 and 1975 fee
dro-iupugvuoont rce.-                                                                    Edocetlo
O'roes r_roductiot rote -ourage         uber of live daughtors a       oa      ill          Adjuated troloen       rato.     primry school - inro1lnant of all a gee an
hoar in he    cooicpodclepro                 if  heoe      en  .   preent age-              P.;aretg    ofprimr      school-ge population; inclodne child-co         aged
upecific ferilityrta,uulyfv-er                      vrgs eningt          90                 6-11 year   boo adjusted for different 1engthn of prto,ry educa.tion;
5970 and 1975 for dsv-lopivgcvneO.for                                                           _outrins with uniore-1 educa.tion, ero1lmont n_            e.ccnd 1007.
Popoletiom growth rate (7%) - total- Compoun.d acn.          grostb rate. of old-             since e.e. pupile are below or above the official schoolIago
year popula-tion  for ...50-60,' 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                    Adjus.ted   ooleot"     ratio    : - .secodary.echaol - Computed  e above;
Population growth race 17.) - orbSa     - Computed like growth rate of total                  snadr;y educationreuIe           at leas    foar yearn of approved Primay
poultin,different deloitiona of urban areae map affect cmpare-                              lmetruction( promidne gene.ral, voctIonal1 or teac.her tr.ainin
Il      of data eon       _cutries                                                          instruction    for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correepondenco
~~ruen ourulailom (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to totol populetion;  caurama arc gemerelY.ly -a-moludndeerally ..1odd;
diffreotdofilciue oforb 0 aras cy afocito'tnpl.rPbpillitty o'f data         Yers of echooling providedJ(firs        aod seco.d level) -Total 7eacs         of
otog ...untir e..shoig                                                                                  at ne..ondery level, voca tional inutructiu       nay be par-
Ago struiu ro (perceo.t,) -rChil.dren ;10-14   yor       okn-g         1-64 yeare),           tially or completely excluded.
~WTiTFj  fl3aflaAove) a d         Perotae        f rd-yea     popula.tion.         Voccatiol earoI-1iant (.of e...ondary) - Voca.tIonal1 iatitutico,           ioclude
Ace dece.d..y ratio - Betio of population under 15 aend 65 and over to                        technica,indsrilo            other progrm     chich operate independeotly or
thoar of ages 15 through 64.                                                                an dp  arnste     fecudary In-titutiona.
Ecunocic dopecderccy ratio -RSeic of population utdor 15 and 65 and ovr                     Adult litearyc ract(.1 M    - Literate adu1te fable to road and write) a
to the labor focei       agegroup of 15-64 yoeare.                                          percentage of total adult popoltion aged 15 yeere and over.
family  lanning- accotos (tumlatly-. thou) - Cumultive number of
acce ptors ofgbirth-control devices     nodr auspice, of national faeily                   osn
P laccing proga      Lance in-eption.                                                     Pere     pe or room  (urban) - Average otuber of porene pot room       in
Pa_ily gla...ico -user      (7. of norrind,woen     - Percetgso        marre                  occupied ....e.ntioca1 dwelling, in urban arose; d.ellingo exclude
scene  f chid-boaing age (15-6     er)cofe         bit-onrldeis                       nc-enacete              Z,tre  andunoccupied parte.
L. all narriod    _wome  I0 sam  ego grouP.                                              Ocapled dualinas w itho       t pipe  cter (7.).  - Occupied conventional
doellinge in urban and rural ame without inside or ouceido piped
Enpl.yffiet                                                                                   eate   fa-ilitise as paroentage of all occupied d-el1ings.
Total laborfoc       (ho..egod) - Ero-i-ally acci-e persone *including                     Acest      electricity (7. of all dwelling,) - Conventional dwollings with
arned forcon and utemp1ylvyd hoc e:coluding bhonesf-s, studente, etc.;                      electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
deinitLoos in _arions      _ontIiene      aci comparabls.                                   an    ualaes
.Leor' force in agriculture (7.     - Agricultura    labor.force (in faming,                Ruradl deellina   connected to electricity (7.      - Computed a, ebov-    for
f'ro.itry, hu-ting ad fishing) as porcen.tege of        tota  labor force,                  rural dwollinge only.
Unemploynd(7oflbr force) - Untmployed are usually deined ae pereoms
who are   blIo and willing to tk.c    a job, out of aIJob cc ai give     day,              eaitn
remaine,d out of. a jb, cod seeking work for a specified n          L-ma  period          Rai    rciers (per thou pop) - All types of re..niv-r, for radio broand-
not rao    tn   one seek; nay not be         - coprble betweena countrice due to            cast  tog genera   public per tho....nd of population; tacludos unlicense.d
differed  dfinitioveof ucempiyod'anPd sourc  of dta, e.g., Sploy-                  rr-iv_rs in coantrien and in yeare shot registration of radio ei                a
moot ofic     etaiscie,    _sampl esrvys, cnapulsory unemploy.ent iceu.r.acn.               in effect; data for rec.entyore may not he -opareble nine emett                  "
c-amrisa abolished liceneng.
Intove dietribtiiov- Por-tagc         of pri-tet   Intone (both in cas h end hind)          PoesePnga...n.r care (prtoupr        Psegr        r    npritee emtr care seat-
received by richest 57., richest 207., pooreno 207., and poorest 407. of                    ing lasscthan nig`htthpe.reone; axcludee ambulence, htmrses and nilitary
huosholds.                                                                                  vehIce..
Eletctroty (bob/yr per cap) - Aticua        consumption of industrial, tm
Dietributiov of lund eworehip        P- Pec  tagee of lend coned by wea lthiest               meil-ulcad private electricity in kilowatt hour, per capita;
107. and pooet17.         flm   conrs.                                                      generlly ba...d on production date, without alwnefor I.s..e In
gids but allowing for,importsandteaporte of electricity.
Heaith and Nutrition                                                                        gawprint (kg/ yr par cap)-Per cpit           annue1 consuptionin kilogram
Populat.Ion Ret physician - Population divided by,number of practicing                         estImated from donnatic production plus nt inport           of newprint.
physIcian    qualified from a ned-1a hobamI at univ-ruity leve.



ANNEX I
SYRIA: ECONOMC DEIE0 ME;DATA                                                       Page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounts in million    of U.. doUars)
Actual97        1P75         __to_           d             LL66     17473-    1976 -     19  1     16       -92       97
____   ____           ____                                                            85    1965     ____9172  275 198
NATIONAL   ACCOUNTS                  ___     Atul9              ~27  t197l5                             -    1756198             19 8l       --        72     197
At 1975 Prices                                    A, --rae Annual GIrow-ih Rates        Ab Peri-e.t of' G01
Gross Dlomestic Product              5225      4753      5677'       6370       8351     jjg30      5*7      7.3       7.0       6.5        113      III      100
Gains from Terms of    rad   (~      -378      -475         0          -67      -161       290                                              -13      -1         0
Gross Domestic income                M847     4-         SZ1         SM         FM-      1751         0     T  2r       -8       i--4       100      100      100
Import (ine]. NS'S)                   525      1066      1890        1911      2346       2932     11.7     21.0       5.3       4.6         1n       25       32
E?ELrt         (iprcaaty              430       813      1251         1094      1328      2048      9.5     15.4       5.0       9.1         15       19       21
Resource Gap                           95       7* 17                           IE5      -S        --        -         -         -                     6-      --
Consumption Expenditures              2497     3285      4714        5592      6996       9347      4.0     12.8       5.7       6.         38        77       80
Inivestment    "  (incl. stocks)       446     1246      1802        1529      2213       2689     14.8     23.0       6.0       3.8        16       29        31
Domestic Savings                       351      993      1162         712      1195       1804     16.1      5.4      140        8.6         12      23        18
National Savings                       417     1200      1877        1038       1420      1828     16.3      0.4       8.:2      5.2         11       28       32
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                        .        123       439         452       760      123922                                                                9
internediate goods (goI1fuels)       ..       235       605         626      1085      2093                                                        22 4     39
F'uels and related mlaterials        ..        24        99         256       522      1115                                                .        43       69
Food                                         124       275         313        381       431                                                         4        623 1
Consumption goods        ..       ~~~      ~~~40  121    128      218        79 ..,                                                               8
Total Mereb. Imorts (cif)                              r!7 ~ 5T    M7W        90        21.                                                       100      100
Esports
Petroleum.                                    52       642         584       752       1002                                               .        8        6
Phosphate                           ..        --        15           15        39       102                                              ..                 19
Cot ton                             .         98       119          162        80        86                                               .       34        13
ManufacMtured goods                  ..       137       154         210       587      1691                                               ..       48       164
Toa  ec.Exports (fob)       2         2 T      73             T -               2T81                                               .       10       100
Merchandise Trade Indices                                 1975        100
Export Price Index                  22        32       100          110       141       198
Import Price Index                  41        58       100          117,      158       225
Terms of Trade Index                53        54       100           94        89        88
Exports Volume Index                .         96       100           95       ill       i56
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 19(5-      Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        871       989      1017        1070      1253      1464       1.8      1.0       4.3       3.2        27       21        17
Industry and Mining               764       1516      2010        2191      3215      5073     10.2      9.8        9.9       9.6        24       32       34
Service                           1590      2248      2850        3109    ~892        4992      5.1      8.          .        5.1        49       47       48
Total                    3~~~~~~~~~S7  WmS   Mr7         TM         831      115 30     57.7     7.3       7.0        9.5        00      10        0
PUBLIC FINANCE    (SL Million)                                                                                                                As Percent of GDP
iuEn-er-a rov-ernme nt )
Current Receipts                   223       508      1784        1651         ..        .                                                7       11       30
Current Expenditures               188       454      1395        1511         ..        .                                                6       10       24
Budgetary Savings                   3,4       54       389         140        ..         .                                                1        1        6
Public Sector Investment            93      252      1217         1272        .                                                           3        5       21
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                      Actual         Prelim.    Est.                   DETAIL ON                            Third Pive-Yesr Plan 1971-75
As % Total Current Expend.)                19 00    1972       19 75    .1976                   PUTBLIC SECTOR                             Actuals        Composition
Education                                   =       -          --l        --3                   INVESTMENT PROGR.AM                     1971L-75       ~
Other Social Services                          4        2           1         1                 Irrigation                               1437                16
AgriculIture                                   3        2           1         1                 Agriculture                               479                 5
Other Economic Services                      14       32           36        24                 Industry and Mining                      1398                15
Administration and Defense                   58       48           52        64                 Rower                                    2719                30
Other                                        --       --           --        ..                 Transport and communications             1178                13
Total1 Current Expenditures                 100      100          100       100                 Other                                    i.90L               21
___________________________________________________________________________________ ToTotalEExpenditures99114                         10
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1965-       1972-     1976-    1980-        FINANCING
1972       1975       1980     1985
Average ICON                                             3.1        2.8       3.8      38Public Sector               3ain8 2                                    37
Import Elasticity                                       1.4        1.4        0.7      0.              msi       orig1059                                      12
Average Rational Savings Rate                          17.4       24.7       20.3     15.4           External Financing                    4673 Li             51
Marginal Nitional Savings Rats                         50.4       44.9       17.1     14.5           Total Financing                       9FI114             1600
3J includes transfers from Arab countries which are excluded from
I.A.BOR PORCE AND____                             Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Workser (1975           Pricesh Ex=. Rates)
OUTPUT PRE WORKER                 I-n thouBand. a          o Total             19 12 - lb         In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aver' ge          19  -
rS   Grovth Rate  1972                 1972         75
1972        197     =197         12_       GrwhRae              17          1975        19         1           Growth Rate
Agriculture                       907.7       894.9     55.5       51.1          0.1              1089       1138          37         34             1.1
Industry                          303.1       348.7     18.5       19.9          8.5              5001      5764          172        172             4.8
Service                           423.4       506.9     26.0       29.0          7.5              5309      5622          183        167             1.4
Tota.l                           1634.2       1750.5    100.0     100.0           3.5             2908       3357         100        100             4.9
not applicable          -nil or negligible
not available          --less than half the
smallest unit shown



SYRIA: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
7amounts in millicns of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                          Estimnated                                    Projected
1972         1973         1974         1975          176            1977         197         19      oJece             1985         1990
SUMMARY bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                         481         601         1061         1251          1214           1354        1525         1990         2691         4381        9498
Iports (incl. NFS)                          599         687         1409         1890         2121            2374        2697         3516         4541         6272       10790
R       esource Balance (X-M)                          _             3-           6                          -llbW        -Tt7i       -152 --1850              -7791    -129
Interest (net)                              -10           .5         -45           -3           -19            -42          -50        -115         -242         -494        -941
Workers' Remittance                          68          51           62           55            67             77           88          117         154          235         472
Current Tranisfers (ret)s8                              371          425          664           282            620         620          300          300          300         300
alance on C  urrent Accunts                                           95          _77          -                           -514          -         -12 -        -1851       -14i2
Private Direct Investtmnrt                    -           -            -            -             -             20          22           25           28           35          49
Official Capital Orants
Public MtLT Loans
Disbursements                              77          89          134          262          415            731          869          936         1864         2136        2291
-35         -58          -62          -87          -97            -123        -135         -194         -345         -503      -1486
Net Disbursenmets                            41          s0           72          17s 73                 4         743                              1519         163405
Other M?LT Loans
Disbursements                               -                        -            -             -             18          31           36           42           51          71
-Re   amnts                                  -           -            -            _             -              0            0           9          -19          -38         -53
Net Disbursements                              _          -            _            _             _                          31          27           22           13          19
Actual                      Estimted
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                  -3         -60           _R         -17            -85                                          19(2       A9    c ua 91974      19          1976
Change in Net Reserves (- = ircrease)         7        -315         -159          -78           344          DEBT A4D DEBr SERVICE
Public Debt Ouit. & Disbursed
GRANT AND LOAN ODMMITHENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like                 49         363          416          653           251            Interest on Public Debt          7           9        10         17           32
Repayments on Public Debt       35          38        62         87           97
Public M&LT Loans                           119         138          495          845           787            ToLal Piblic Debt Service       42          47        72        104          129
IBRD                                        -           -           88           81            81            Otiei Debt Service (net)         -           -         -          -            -
IDA                                        14          15           10            -                          Totil Debt Service (net)        42         47         72        104          129
Other                                        -           -           -
Other Multilateral                           -          -            -            -             -          Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                                70          34          300          719           669
Suppliers                                   35         89           68           46            38            Public Debt Service             8.7         7.7       6.7        8.3          io.6
Financial Institutions                       -          -           29            -             -
Bonds                                                    -
Public Loans ne. e .                                                 -.
Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1976                        Tnt. as % Prior Year DO&D       2.9         2.9        3.1       2.6           3.3
WoTR29AL DEB/I                                    Disbled Olly                  Percent                          Amcort. as % Prior Year DYO&D  18.1        15.9       21.5       15.8          13.2
World Bank 
IDA                                                  44                                                      IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Miltilateral                                     0                         O                                as % Public Debt O&D           -          -          -         0.5          2.5
Governmeents                                        782                         80 B                              as % Public Debt Service       -          -          -         0.7          0.9
Suonli era                                          118                         12
Financial Institutions                               30                          3                           IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                                 0                          0                               as s% Public Debt O&D          -           -          -        0.5           2.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                    0                          0                               as % Public Debt Service       -           -          -         0.2           0.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                               T5                        lu
Other MLIT Debts                                       0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                           0
not applicable                                                      e  staff estimate
not available                                                       - nil or negligible
... not available separately                                            --  less than half the                                                                                                           u
but included in total                                                  smallest unit shown                                                                                                         a



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
A. Statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
(As of April 30, 1977)
Number    Year    Borrower                 Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
46       1963    Syrian Arab Republic    Highways               8.5      -
298       1972    Syrian Arab Republic    Highways              13.8     13.4
401       1973    Syrian Arab Republic    Water Supply          15.0      8.5
469       1974    Syrian Arab Republic     Irrigation           10.0      2.1
975       1974    Syrian Arab Republic     Irrigation    63.0            63.0
986       1974    Etablissement Public
de l'Electricite         Electricity   25.0             5.6
986-1     1975    Etablissement Public
de l'Electricite         Electricity    8.6             8.6
1144       1975    Etablissement Public
de l'Electricite         Electricity   72.0            54.1
1241       1976    Syrian Arab Republic     Water Supply  35.0            28.9
1261       1976    Etablissement Public    Telecommuni-
des Telecommunications   cations       28.0            28.0
1311  1/   1977    Syrian Arab Republic    Livestock       5.0             5.0
1312T l/   1977    Syrian Arab Republic    Livestock      12.5            12.5
Total                                         249.1   47.3    229.7
of which has been repaid                     0       .3
Total now outstanding                         249.1   47.0
Amount sold                                     1.0    0
of which has been repaid                     0      0
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/             248.1   47.0
Total undisbursed                             205.7   24.0    229.7
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments
B. Statements of IFC Investments: None
(As of April 30, 1977)



ANNEX II
Page 2
Credit 298 - Second Highway Project; US$13.8 million Credit of April 17, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project implementation started in 1975 after an initial delay due to
the unfavorable political situation in the region. In July 1975, after several
contracts had been awarded, the Government decided to upgrade the project
roads to four-lane standards, undertaking to cover the extra costs involved.
Economic studies, based on preliminary cost estimates, indicate the upgrading
to be economically justified. The Association will determine its position on
the upgraded roads after final cost estimates, based on detailed engineering,
become available. Government has called bids for the additional works on the
Homs-Tartous road and is presently negotiating addenda to the contracts with
the contractors for the construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border road.
Agreement for financing of construction of the Damascus-Jordanian border road
has been reached between the Government and USAID. This section will, there-
fore, be deleted from the project. The Government has requested that the
construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border road and Tall Kalakh section of
Homs Tartous road remain components of the project even if IDA participation
in financing would become low due to the higher standards and increased
costs.
Credit 401 - Damascus Water Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
Initial delays in project implementation of about two years were
caused by the unfavorable political situation in the region. A revision of
the project description was required as a result of considerable cost overruns
and was approved by the Board on May 28, 1975. This permitted work to proceed
on an urgent phase of distribution. Work is now proceeding in accordance with
the contract schedule with about 50 percent of the works completed to date. No
further delays are anticipated. Consultants have begun the pollution control
studies for Damascus, Homs and Hama.
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Project; US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date:   June 30, 1982
Following initial procurement difficulties, works by Syrian Govern-
ment organizations for the development of the first 10,000 ha are progressing
satisfactorily and construction of the Lower Main Canal headreach (18 km) is
underway. Bids for the second part of the project (11,000 ha) have been evalu-
ated but recommendations for award have not yet been received, pending a
review by the Higher Inter-ministerial Council. The Syrian Government has
obtained a loan from the Government of Iran to cover part of the considerable
cost overruns and has undertaken to provide a financing plan for the project
by the middle of 1977. The Government is presently reconsidering the scope
of the project. The question of settlement in the Balikh Project is also
being considered by Government. Feasibility studies for a drainage/irrigation
project for rehabilitation of salt-affected lands in the lower Euphrates area
are expected to be completed around the middle of 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of US$8.6 million of June 4, 1975; Dates of Effectiveness:
January 30, 1975 and January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consists of the first 150-MW unit of new steam-electric
power station at Mehardeh; eight 230-kV substations, consultant services and
training. The project is co-financed by a US$33 million loan from Kuwait
Fund, including a second portion of US$15 million to cover the considerable
cost overruns. Although main contracts were awarded about five months late and
a further delay of about two months was caused due to a temporary lack of
cement, physical progress is satisfactory and the final delay is expected to
be minimal. Institutional progress is expected to remain slow due to lack of
experienced personnel and the time required to train intermediate executive
staff.
Loan 1144 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project comprises a second 150-MW steam generating unit at
Mehardeh, construction of six and extension of two 230-kV substations, a new
office building, organization and accounting studies and training. Construc-
tion of the power plant is progressing satisfactorily although a delay of
about two months occurred due to a temporary lack of cement; the final delay
is expected to be minimal. Construction of the new head office building has
been delayed by about one year because the Government is reconsidering its
size. Institutional progress is expected to remain slow due to lack of exper-
ienced personnel and the time required to train intermediate executive staff.
Loan 1241 - Second Damascus Water Supply Project; US$35 million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
This loan became effective on January 31, 1977. The project, which
is co-financed by the Arab Fund and USAID, provides for the supply components
of Damascus' water system and for training. Work is proceeding on schedule
on the contract for the tunnel, underground cutoff and supply reservoir, which
are financed by the Bank. A close coordination of the works financed by the
various donors under this project and of the works financed under the first
project will be required to permit the timely link-up of the various compo-
ents of the supply and distribution system and to minimize expected delays in
implementation of the project components financed by other donors.
Loan 1261 - Telecommunications Project, US$28 million Loan of June 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This loan became effective on March 15, 1977. The project consists
of the most urgent works of the telecommunications investment program for the
period 1976-78, including the installation of telephone connections, trunk



ANNEX II
Page 4
exchanges and teleprinters; and expansion of long distance and international
facilities; and a training center. Procurement is well underway on a number
of contracts.
Loans 1311/1312T - First Livestock Development Project; US$5 million Loan
and US$12.5 million Third Window Loan of July 22, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan has not yet become effective due to delays in the selec-
tion and appointment of consultants. The project provides for a strengthening
of the organizational framework for feed policies and animal health services
as well as credit to sheep farmers and cooperatives.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Six months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            Etablissement Public des
Eaux d'Alep (EPEA)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:   May 1976
(d)  Date of departure Appraisal Mission:      November 1976
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:       May 1977
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            October 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank provided terms of reference for studies and technical assis-
tance components of proposed project. Other action to ensure satisfactory
project implementation (e.g. training of EPEA staff, introduction of new
techniques and control methods, provision of consulting services, improve-
ments to public construction enterprises) is part of proposed project (paras.
32, 40, 43 and 44).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to take adequate measures to prolong the life of the
intake at Lake Assad on the basis of consultants studies (para.
44).
(b) Government to extend the mandate of the project committee under
the Governor of Aleppo to cover the proposed project (para. 39);
and to enable EPEA to be adequately staffed (para. 41).
(c) EPEA to set and collect rates for the sale of water at whichever
is the higher of the following two levels: (i) rates at a level
not below LS 0.60/m3 for household consumption and LS 0.75/m3
for non-household consumption; or (ii) rates, which together
with revenues from other charges on water supply, are adequate
to cover in each year: all operating expenses (excluding depre-
ciation), debt service and increased working capital, and in
each year during the period 1978-82 not less than 15 percent,
and beginning with the year 1983, each year not less than 35



ANNEX III
Page 2
percent of the average cost of investment during each consecu-
tive three-year period comprising an actual and two forecast
years (para 37). EPEA to review, by not later than September
30 of each year, the adequacy of its tariffs for the next year
on the basis of forecasts of expenditures for the current and
next two years; and to furnish the results of these reviews to
the Bank (para. 37).
(d) EPEA not to incur any further loans unless its net cash genera-
tion, before depreciation and interest, exceeds 1.5 times its
debt service in any future year, including debt service on the
amount to be borrowed from the proposed Bank loan (para. 38).
(e) EPEA to engage consultants to review construction techniques
and to study silting, water treatment and risks of flooding of
intake pump motors. Commencement of work by these consultants
would be a condition of effectiveness. EPEA also to engage
consultants to analyze the existing distribution system and
review alternatives for its extension (para. 44).
(f) EPEA to submit a training program for its professional staff to
the Bank for its comments prior to June 30, 1978 (para. 40).



IBRD 12722
IU                A, j         1k ,,  d ,.pdr.                                                                                 MARCH 1977
| z 'mJ !S ALEPPO  4550                                               //Probable Location of Future Mains to
Serve Developing High Level Areas
U  Probable Location of Future
Service Reservoir
Trunk Mains
A     Pumping Stations
_____ _____ _____ _____                                                                           *     Service  Reservoirs
ToYAI-AN                    Water Towers
Areas Now Fully Developed
Areas Being Developed
(Population up to 1,500,000)
Areas of Proposed Development
/         ~~~(Population Above 1,500,000)
r \/  /HALEPPO WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
\  /oQ   CiTY OF ALEPPO AND VICINITY






iBRD 12690
A                                                                                                    CEEEIE        MARCH 977.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                    ,/E"          ,
ALEPPO    WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                   ,,   '
INTAKE HEADWORKS AND AQUEDUCTS                               '
L                                                                           RAASM EL AACED_
IERINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.E
TO DE.R HAFIF
B
RA.S SER MA 
/-                              - / M eAA7ACHIeE  _.  __  - MATRAURA .
Iug__---_____ \   RASM EL HARMEL
N lItRRA
JEREITT EL MAM /
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C ;
   1    2   3   A   5     j        PROJECT  EMISTING
'ILOMETERS         j                  9-p,pg Moins
j         ~    ~~~~- A9iied-it.
9        ------ ----- Aq..doCu, In TAnnel
_   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~    ;~~~~~~~     -     In_rered SiphoRs
AHTAED-  3   7,                                                      A   Pumpin  SEtifons
, ~ ~~~~~~~~                                 ~   ~~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Sf  _  e  TroErnemnI Plonts
THARASA    j4 ____                                                         -   Main fHN _____  looods
01A.1AYA ~ ~  ~                                                     S---_  Row-",'
As-    ------  -- TR..d,
////~ Al.pp. D-velenP-t Are,
T>U 2 K E Y  ___- v        <             y~~~~~~~~~~~~~"SAEA                         S   Intoh* 7"
IY                                  -               N      StaLraoU  Neal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w-B(Od
'~ J(:                                                      \                                            r -F _ b ~, \ HABMOU EA 9E A OU   .  - -- -
/                                                                  *, r  , I R A O r bw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KEE~ERRE  '  i- 75 1 1  I 
H~ *OO.iARAL C u '   E   L     .q.                                         iAMOUH__--p-___-~ ~~~~~OLRE^



