CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1458 SYR
Loan Agreement
(Aleppo Water Supply Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 30, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1977, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and
the Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep, a state enterprise of
the Borrower, (hereinafter called EPEA) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to EPEA part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EPEA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and EPEA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EPEA pursuant to Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all Schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;


﻿(c) "EPEA" means the Etablissement Public des Eaux d'Alep, a
state enterprise of the Borrower established and subordinated to
the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and Utilities pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No. 2410 of July 12, 1975;
(d) "SPC" means the State Planning Commission of the
Borrower; and
(e) "LS" means Syrian Pounds, the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The General Director of EPEA is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Minister of State for Planning Affairs of the
Borrower or such other person as shall have been authorized by
said Minister is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions with respect to Categories (6)
and (7) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C and
Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) For the implementation of Part C and Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause EPEA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable EPEA to perform such obliga-
tions, to operate and maintain its assets and to meet its debt
service requirements, and shall not take or pqrmit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
EPEA of the aforementioned obligations.


﻿- 7 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause EPEA at all times to be managed
and operated according to appropriate technical, administrative
and financial practices under qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of forty-eight
million five hundred thousand dollars ($48,500,000) of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to EPEA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EPEA under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall,
without limitation, provide that EPEA: (i) will pay to the
Borrower a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount so relent
and not withdrawn by EPEA from time to time; (ii) will pay to the
Borrower interest at the rate of eight and two-tenths per cent
(8.20%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn
by EPEA and outstanding from time to time; and (iii) will repay to
the Borrower the principal amount so relent over a period of not
less than 17 years and not more than 20 years from the date of
this Agreement, including therein a period of grace of not less
than 3-1/2 years and not more than 4-1/2 years.


﻿-8-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken,
after consultation with the Bank, all the technical and financial
measures necessary to implement the recommendations emanating from
the studies referred to in Part B.1 (iii) and (iv) of the ?roject
with respect to prolonging the life of the water supply intake at
Lake Assad.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, upon
their completion, copies of the reports and other documents
prepared by the consultants employed by the Borrower in carrying
out Part C and Part D of the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿- 10 -
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. Whereas the Borrower has established by the
President's Decision No. 7 of January 30, 1975, the Aleppo Water
Committee to supervise the execution of water projects in Aleppo,
the Borrower shall cause said Committee, or any successor thereof,
to exercise its responsibilities in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part C and Part D of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Part C or Part D of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to enable EPEA to comply with the
provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, including,
inter alia, the establishment and maintaining of such rates for
the metered consumption of water as shall be required for the
purpose.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) EPEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower's Decrees Nos. 18 or 2410 dated February 15,
1974 and July 12, 1975, respectively, or the President's Decision
No. 7 of January 30, 1975 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of EPEA to carry out its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EPEA or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Project Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that EPEA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and EPEA; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of EPEA
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and EPEA, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(c) the engineering consultants required for Part B.1 (i)
through (iv) of the Project have commenced the studies referred to
in said Part.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, EPEA, and
is legally binding upon EPEA, in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 15 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and EPEA, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EPEA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 28, 1977, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Housing and Utilities of the
Borr3wer is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Housing and Utilities
Damascus
Syria
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and               25,000,000        100% of foreign
materials                                     expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory, and
70% of local ex-
penditures for
imported items
procured in Syria
(2) Civil works                 14,100,000        25%
(3) Consultants'                 3,750,000        100% of foreign
services for                                 expenditures
Part B (1) of
the Project
(4) Specialized train-             250,000        100% of foreign
ing of EPEA Staff                            expenditures
(Part B (2) of the
Project)


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultants'                 1,250,000        100% of foreign
services for                                 expenditures
Part C of
the Project
(6) Consultants'                    50,000        100% of foreign
services for                                 expenditures
Part D (1) of
the Project
(7) Consultants'                   200,000        100% of foreign
services for                                 expenditures
Part D (2) of
the Project
(8) Unallocated                  5,400,000
TOTAL       50,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand and extend the water supply
and to improve the water distribution system in Aleppo, and to
provide for related studies and organizational improvements.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   1.   The construction of an aqueduct about 75 km long
with a capacity to deliver about 220,000 m3 of
water per day, and the construction of pumping
mains about 12.5 km long with a capacity to deliver
about 110,000 m3 of water per day.
2.   The installation of pumps at the existing intake at
Lake Assad with a capacity to produce 220,000 m3 of
water per day, and the installation of pumps and
treatment facilities with a capacity to produce an
additional 110,000 m3 of water per day and with
the potential for extension so as to reach the
capacity of about 220,000 m3 of water per day.
3.   Establishment of service reservoirs with a total
capacity of about 100,000 m3.
4.   The provision of distribution mains to serve the
high level area.
5.   The provision or replacement of equipment, vehicles
and buildings for EPEA.


﻿- 23 -
Part B:   1.   (1) Reviewing the construction methods for the
transmission of water; (ii) studying the methods
of water treatment and designing water treatment
plants; (iii) undertaking soundings and studying
the silting around the intake at Lake Assad; (iv)
studying the technical methods for protecting the
intake pumps at Lake Assad; and (v) analyzing the
existing distribution system and reviewing
alternatives for its extension.
2.   Overseas training of EPEA's technicians.
Part C:   The carrying out of a study on sewage treatment and
disposal in Aleppo and Lattakia.
Part D:   1.   Assistance to SPC's Directorate of Planning of
Building and Construction for the collection and
analysis of data on construction resources and
building material in Syria.
2.   Assistance to the public construction companies in
Syria in cost accounting, equipment repair and
inventory control and warehousing.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 24 -
SCREDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1981
through   March 1, 1994                      1,850,000
On September 1, 1994                               1,900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see Genera Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more fifteen years
before maturity                              7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


