CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 246 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Seeds Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 246 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Seeds Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 19, 1971


﻿BrortapmPut Tub~?it A~gemadt
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1971, between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocUTIoN (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to De-
velopment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the dele-
tion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to :  renum-
bering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Djatiluhur Authority" means Otorita Djatiluhur, a
public corporation (PERUM) established by, and ,..perating
under, Government Regulation No. 20/1970 of thlie Bor-
rower.
(b) "NSC" means Perusahaan Umum Sang Hyang Seri
(National Seeds Corporation), a public corporation
(PERUM) established by, and operating under, Govern-
ment Regulation No. 22/1971 of the Borrower.
(c) "National Seeds Board" means the board estab-
lished by Presidential Decree No. 27/1971 of the Borrower,


﻿4
for the purpose of assisting the Borrower's Minister of
Agriculture with the planning and formulation of policies
regarding seeds.
(d) "CRIA" means Lembaga Pusat Penelitian Per-
tanian, the Central Research Institute of Agriculture op-
erating under the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture.
(e) "Tjabang Sukamandi" means the agricultural re-
search branch of CRIA established by, and operating under
Decree No. 183/KPTS/ORG/5/1971 of the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture.
(f) "Seeds Office" means Dinas Pengawasan dan Serti-
fikasi Benih, a division within the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture for the regulation and control of certification
and marketing of seeds, established by, and operating
under, Decree No. 174/KPTS/ORG/4/1971 of the Bor-
rower' s Minister of Agriculture.
(g) "Sukamandi Area" means the area of about 4,550
ha. in the Province of West Java which on April 1, 1971
was administered by Lembaga Sang Hyang Seri.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
row, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000).
'SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association ishall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement


﻿5
and to be financed under the Development Credit Agree-
ment; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on ac-
count of expenditures in the territories of any country
which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzer-
land) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August
1969, and in accordance with, and subject to, .he provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, provided, how-
ever, that advertisements of invitations to bid on civil
works contracts for buildings required for the Project may
be limited to newspapers of general circulation in the
Borrower's country.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1977 or  such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in ,semi-annual installments payable
on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
1981 and ending May 1, 2021, each installment to and in-


﻿6
eluding the installment payable on May 1, 1991 to be one-
half of -one per cent (/ of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per
cent (112%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts C and
D of the Project and shall cause the Djatiluhur Authority
to carry out Part A of the Project and cause NSC to carry
out Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with sound agricultural, engineer-
ing, economic and financial policies and practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. For the purposes of Part A of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds
to cover the budgeted expenditures estimated by the
Djatiluhur Authority to be made for Part A of the Project
during each quarter shall be available to the Djatiluhur
Authority not later than thirty days prior to the first day
of such quarter.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Djatiluhur Authority
to employ consultants acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to
assist the Djatiluhur Authority in the design and super-
vision of the works included in Part A of the Project.
(c) Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause the Djatilu-
hur Authority to employ qualified and experienced contrac-


﻿7
tors on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to carry out the works included in Part A of the
Project.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that by February 1, 1972,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association, the infrastructure and irrigation
system required for at least 750 ha. of cultivable land in
the Sukamandi Area included in Part A of the Project shall
have been completed.
SECTION 3.03. For the purposes of Part B of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall make the funds required to carry
out Part B of the Project (including the proceeds of the
Credit allocated or to be allocated thereto) available to
NSC in the form of an equity contribution. Before 1976,
such contribution shall not be converted into debt to the
Borrower, and after 1975 only to such extent and upon
such terms and conditions as the Borrower, the Association
and NSC shall agree from time to time. Before any assets
shall be transferred from Lembaga Sang Hlyang Seri to
NSC the Borrower shall agree with the Association upon
the book value of such assets.
(b) In order to assist NSC in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause NSC to employ manage-
ment consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) In order to assist NSC in the design and construction
supervision of the seeds processing plants included in
Parts B (1) and B (2), and in carrying out the survey and
in establishing the  seeds marketing facilities included in
Part B(3), of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NSC to
employ engineering and marketing consultants, respectively,
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(d) To carry out the works included in Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause NSC to employ contrac-


﻿8
tors acceptable to the Association upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall carry out the resettlement of
families which on the date of this Agreement occupy land
in the Sukamandi Area in accordance with a plan and time-
table satisfactory to the Association.
(f) Before NSC shall introduce seed production facilities
under the Project in the district of Batang, the Borrower
shall have completed the rehabilitation of the irrigation sys-
tem in that district.
SECTION 3.04. For the purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a) The Borrower shall employ consultants to plan, de-
sign and supervise the execution of the works, and contrac-
tors to carry out the works, included in Part C of the
Project, all acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Tjabang Sukamandi to
employ at least seven specialists for at least five years in
the fields of plant breeding, seed production agronomy,
plant pathology, entomology and -seed certification, all ac-
ceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
SECTION 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed. out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity -shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.


﻿9
SECTION 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, and
construction, work and procurement schedules, for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause the Djatiluhur
Authority, NSC and Tjabang Sulcamandi to: (i) maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary for NSC to
obtain the full and free use of about 4,300 ha. in the
Sukamandi Area and all such other land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Part
B of the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NSC to pro-
duce or process with the farm and facilities included in
Part B of the Project seeds or plants, other than rice seeds


﻿10
and plants, on a commercial basis only if and to the extent
that the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
that such production or processing is justified. After June
30, 1978, such production or processing shall be justified
if the requirements of the farmers on Java for good qual-
ity and high yielding rice seeds and plants shall be met
from production sources within the territories of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that NSC's requirements
for seeds will be met with good quality high yielding seed
varieties in adequate quantities.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the commercial production
of seeds (except by private producers) to be terminated
in areas where, and to the extent that, NSC shall be capable
of meeting the needs of such seeds.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures of Tjabang
Sukamandi, the Seeds Office and, in respect of the Project,
of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Tjabang Sukamandi and
the Seeds Office to have their above mentioned records for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and to furnish to the Asso-
ciation within four months after the end of each fiscal year
certified copies of such records and the report of such audit
by said auditors.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause NSC to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of NSC.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall cause NSC to: (i) have its ac-
counts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with -sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall cause NSC and
Tjabang Sukamandi to take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NSC:
(a) at all times to manage its affairs, maintain its finan-
cial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its op-
erations, including inter alia the processing, marketing and
distribution of the seeds grown on its farm and by farmers
under contract with NSC, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and agricultural practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers;
(b) at all times to operate and maintain its seeds produc-
tion farm, processing plants, installations, roads, irrigation
canals and works, equipment and other property, and
promptly as required make all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof, all in accordance with sound business, agri-
cultural and engineering practices;


﻿12
(c) to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights and interests in land, including inter
alia about 4,300 ha. in the Sukamandi Area, and all such
other rights, powers, privileges and franchises as are neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business; and
(d) before an appointment is made to the position of
Chief Manager, Seeds District, of NSC to inform the Asso-
ciation of the name, qualifications and experience of the per-
sons considered for appointment to such position and afford
the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on the qualifications and experience of
such persons.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the posi-
tions of Director of NSC and Head of Tjabagg Sukamandi
shall at all times be filled by qualified and experienced per-
sons and, before an appointment is made to any such posi-
tions, shall inform the Association of the name, qualifica-
tions and experience of the persons considered for appoint-
ment to such positions and afford the Association a reason-
able opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on
the qualifications and experience of such persons.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall at all times cause
the installations, equipment and other property of Tjabang
Sukamandi, and the irrigation systems and the service and
feeder roads serving NSC 's seeds production farm or any
village selected under Part B(2) of the Project, to be op-
erated and maintained, and promptly as required all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accord-
ance with -sound irrigation and engineering practices.
(b) The Dorrower shall cause Tjabang Sukamandi and
the Seeds Office to be operated and maintained in accord-
ance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and
scientific practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management, assisted by qualified and ex-
perienced staff, and to be furnished, promptly as needed,


﻿13
with the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall cause the farmers
growing seeds for NSC to be furnished, promptly as
needed, with the agricultural inputs and credit required
for the purpose.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower undertakes that the sal-
aries, emoluments and other benefits of staff employed in
NSC, Tjabang Sukamandi and the Seeds Office shall be at
levels adequate to ensure the recruitment of staff of a
sufficiently high quality and to allow such staff to devote
their professional attention exclusively to the NSC, TIjabang
Sukamandi or the Seeds Office.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of NSC and the
resources and expenditures of Tijabang Sukamandi and the
Seeds Office, and, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿14
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Bor-
rower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency
of the Borrower or of any such political -subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition of NSC and the resources
and expenditures of Tjabang Su.kamandi and the Seeds
Office, and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly in-
form each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTIoN 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to inspect all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of NSC and any relevant
records and documents and to visit any part of the terri-
tories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-


﻿15
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by
notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately to-
gether with the service charges thereon and upon aay such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in
the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Presidential Decree No. 27/1971, Government Regu-
-tion No. 22/1971, or either of the Decrees Nos. 174/
KPTS/ORG/4/1971 and 183/KPTS/ORG/5/1971 of the
Minister of Agriculture, of the Borrower, or any provision
thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated.
(b) The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under the Development Credit Agreement (Second Irriga-
tion Rehabilitation Project) dated June 15, 1970 between
the Borrower and the Association -shall have been sus-
pended in whole or in part.


﻿16
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that any event -specified in Section 7.02
(a) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) seeds legislation, satisfactory to the Association,
setting standards for purity and certification of seeds has
been duly enacted by the Borrower and has become effec-
tive; and
(b) NSC has retained the services of the management
consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that NSC is a legal entity duly organized and op-
erating under the laws of the Borrower, with all rights
and powers necessary to enable it to carry out Part B of
the Project;
(b) that the National Seeds Board, Tjabang Sukamandi
and the Seeds Office are duly organized and operating
under the laws of the Borrower; and
(c) that the seeds legislation referred to in Section 8.01
(a) -of this Agreement has been duly enacted and has be-
come effective and is valid and binding legislation under the
laws of the Borrower.


﻿17
SECTION 8.03. The date of September 3, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.03 (a) and Article IV of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of
Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United State 3 of America
Cable Address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
0


﻿18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ SOEDJATMOKO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in      % of Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I. Equipment,                   3,100,000     100%  of foreign ex-
machinery, vehicles                        penditures and 95%o
and spare parts                            of local expenditures
ex-factory
II. Consultants'                 3,000,000     100% of foreign
services and                               expenditures
scholarships
III. Civil works contracts         700,000      54% of total
for irrigation infra-                      expenditures
structure, excluding
the first 750 ha. of the
Sukamandi Area
IV. Unallocated                    700,000
TOTAL          7,500,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories, and in the currency, of any country other than the
Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories of the Borrower; and


﻿20
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign expenditures and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column
of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Cate-
gory would exceed the amount payable net of all such
taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no
proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of
payments for such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit -set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph l above:
(a) if the -estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and no longer required therefor will
be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.


﻿21
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of local expenditures under Category I and of total ex-
penditures under Category III shall increase and no pro-
ceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the initial development phase of
a modern seed industry in Indonesia and consists of the fol-
lowing parts:
Part A. Rehabilitation and improvement of the infrastruc-
ture and the irrigation system, including the neces-
sary canals, roads and bridges, and related works
in the Sukamandi Area in order to meet the trans-
portation and irrigation requirements of the seeds
production farm and Tjabang Sukamandi referred
to below in Part B (1) and Part C, respectively.
Part B. (1) Establishment of an irrigated seeds production
farm on about 4,300 ha. (including rental farms ag-
gregating about 800 ha. of cultivable land) in the
Sukamandi Area, the resettlement of families pres-
ently occupying land within the Area, the construc-
tion of a seeds processing plant, and the training
of staff;
(2) Establishment of production and processing
facilities for seeds grown by participating farmers
in selected villages in the district of Klaten on
Central Java and, if the Borrower and theAssocia-
tion agree, also in the districts of Batang and
Kepandjen in Central and East Java, respectively;
and
(3) A. seeds marketing survey and the establish-
ment of seeds marketing facilities.
Part C. The equipping and staffing of Tjabang Sukamandi
on about 250 ha. in the Sukamandi Area to supply
the seeds production farm with high yielding plant
varieties and to provide specialized training
courses in the production and certification of seeds.
Part D. The equipment and staffing of the Seeds Office.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a de-
tailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the reasons for the intended award.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the
Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have.
(c) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expendi-
tures thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(d) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿24
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2. With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first ap-
plication for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, as well as a copy of the record of public
opening of bids and the bid evaluation report. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or
with the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event,
no expenditure under such contract shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
3. Evaluation of Foreign and Local Bids for Goods.
For the purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices for all con-
tracts for goods shall be determined in accordance with
the following rules:
(a) The term Local Bid means any bid submitted by any
manufacturer, established in the territories of the Bor-
rower, for such goods manufactured or processed to a sub-
stantial extent (as determined by the Association) in the
territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed
to be a Foreign Bid.
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be determined
by adding the following amounts:
(i) an amount representing the ex-factory price there-
of; and
(ii) an amount representing domestic freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation.
S


﻿25
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of
such goods net of any taxes on their importation,
or, in the case of a Foreign Bid for goods manu-
factured or processed in the territories of the Bor-
rower, the ex-factory price of such goods;
(ii) an amount representing any taxes on the importa-
tion of the goods into the territories of the Bor-
rower which generally apply to non-exempt im-
porters, or 15% of the amount specified in (c) (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii) an amount representing domestic freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation.


