 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14676

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/27/2015

               Country: Guinea
             Project ID: P070878                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Coastal Marine And           Project Costs (US$M):                      21.63               16.71
                         Biodiversity
                         Management
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        5.0                4.91
      Sector Board:      Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):                       13.9                 9.2

           Cofinanciers: Global                       Board Approval Date :                                 06/22/2006
                         Environment-Associate                Closing Date:             12/31/2011          12/31/2013
                         d IDA Fund;
                         International Fund for
                         Agricultural
                         Development and
                         Foreign Multilateral
                         Institutions
                         (Unidentified)
          Sector(s):     General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (65%); Sub-national government
                         administration (20%); Other social services (10%); Central government administration (5%)
          Theme(s):      Environmental policies and institutions (20% - P); Biodiversity (20% - P); Rural non-farm
                         income generation (20% - P); Participation and civic engagement (20% - P); Decentralization
                         (20% - P)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy April Connelly               Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This was a stand alone Global Environment Facility financed project, which had both a project development
objectives (PDO) and global environment objectives (GEO).

The original project development objective as stated in the Grant Agreement (Schedule 1 pg. 6) was “ to promote
rational management of the Recipient’s coastal biodiversity for both conservation and sustainable development ends
in selected priority areas (up to 17 of the Recipient’s Rural Development Communities), with a focus on those around
sites identified under the Ramsar List of Wetlands of International Importance and shared watersheds, notably
Alcatraz Island, Rio Pongo and Tristao Islands), with a particular emphasis on assisting communities in and around
these priority areas to plan, implement and maintain environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive alternative
livelihood options.”

The project development objective is stated in similar terms in the Project Appraisal Document (pg. 7) “to promote
rational management of Guinea’s coastal biodiversity for both conservation and sustainable development ends in
selected priority areas, with a particular emphasis on assisting communities in and around these priority areas to plan
implement and maintain environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive alternative livelihood options.

The original Global Environmental Objective stated in the project appraisal document was “to promote conservation of
globally and nationally significant habitats and species in Guinea’s coastal zone in selected priority areas
encompassing coastal Ramsar Sites.” The Global Environment Objective was not reflected in the grant agreement.

As part of a Level 1 restructure in April 22, 2011, the PDO was revised and combined with the GEO. The revised
combined project objective was "to improve the conservation of the Recipient’s coastal and marine biological
resources in selected Ramsar Sites.” (Restructuring Paper, pg. 6).
In accordance with IEG guidelines, this review will use the PDO as presented in the original grant agreement as the
basis for assessing the original objectives and the revised PDO as presented in the restructuring paper as the basis
for assessing the revised objectives.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 04/22/2011

c. Components:
 There were five original components. The ICR does not report the full cost of the components. It only reflects the
GEF contribution.

Component 1: Protection and Conservation of Coastal RAMSAR Sites (Approval cost was US$ 0.9 million and Actual
cost was US$1.0 million).
This component had three subcomponents. They are (i) Establishment of an Integrated Conservation Zone. This
subcomponent was to establish at least one integrated coastal conservation zone and develop management plans
through participatory mechanisms. Two intervention areas, incorporating wetlands recognized under the RAMSAR
Convention were included (Islands of Tristao, Alcatraz, and Rio Pongo); (ii) Conservation Zone Management. This
sub-component provided the Rural Communes (CRDs), local communities and local development/change agents with
the core technical tools and financial support for the establishment and management of the coastal conservation; and
(iii) Impact Monitoring and Evaluation. This subcomponent would build impact monitoring and evaluation capacity for
the two identified sites by establishing an on-site base, and providing operating costs, minimal equipment and
transportation.
Component 2: Enabling Environment for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) (Approval cost was US$ 0.7
million and Actual cost was US$ 0.6 million).
This component had two subcomponents. They are: (i) Institutional Strengthening. Four sets of activities were
included under this subcomponent: studies, targeted capacity building of the Ministry of Environment, a review of the
adequacy of the legal framework related to Integrated Conservation Zones (ICZs), and basic training and workshops;
and (ii) Coastal Zone Knowledge and Communication. Two sets of activities were included under this subcomponent:
(i) establishment of an institutionalized integrated coastal zone coordination exchange mechanism under the Ministry
of Planning; and (ii) support to the existing information center of the Observatoire Guinee Maritime (OGM) to facilitate
and enhance access to coastal and marine related information.
Component 3: Local Investment Fund (Approval cost was US$ 1.6 million and Actual cost was US$ 1.3 million).This
component provided micro grants to communities for activities that were expected to have an incremental positive
impact on biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use.

Component 4: Support for Local Capacity Building (Approval cost was US$ 1.0 million and Actual cost was US$ 1.0
million). This component assisted populations of targeted CRDs to revise existing local development plan (PDLs) by
using a more holistic development approach emphasizing sustainable natural resource use and conservation
activities.

Component 5: Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Approval cost was US$ 0.8 million and Actual cost
was US$ 1.01million). This component ensured efficient and cost-effective implementation of the other four
components

Project Restructuring
Due to political turmoil disbursements in the country were suspended from December 2008 to 2010. When the Bank
reengaged in 2011 the project was restructured along with the rest of the Guinea portfolio. As part of project
restructuring (April 22, 2011), the components were reduced in scope to focus on those activities that would have a
rapid positive impact on the rural population, thereby reducing pressure on the natural resources and enabling
achievement of the revised project development objective. The activities were consolidated and restructured into four
components: (i) Creation of MPAs in Ramsar Sites and support to their management; (ii) Capacity Building for MPAs
management; (iii) Support to participative local development; and (iv) Project Management and Monitoring and
Evaluation.

The project scope was reduced to focus on 11 communities, instead of the original 17 communities and the ceiling of
the Special Account was increased from USD 550,000 to USD 1,000,000.

The National Coordination Unit (NCU) in charge of implementing the project was moved from Ministry of Planning to
the Ministry of Decentralization. The newly created Office of Biological Diversity and Protected Areas (OGDBAP),
which operated under the purview of the Ministry of Environment, was put in charge of the creation of marine
protected areas - MPAs (Component 1) and related capacity building activities (Component 2).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Costs:
The estimated cost at appraisal was US$ 21.63 million. The actual cost at completion was US$16.71 million (Annex 1
of ICR). The ICR does not report the reasons that the actual project cost was below the appraisal estimate.

Financing:
The project was financed by several financing sources. The breakdown by source is as follows:
1) Global Environment Facility (GEF) ( appraisal US$ 5.0 million and actual US$ 4.91 million)
2) Local Communities, in the form of in kind contributions (appraisal US$ 1.63 million and actual US$ 1.50 million)
3) Global Environment-Associated IDA Fund (appraisal US$11.70 million and actual US $ 7.0 million)
4) International Fund for Agricultural Development (appraisal US$ 2.0 million and actual US$ 2.0 million)
5) Foreign Multilateral Institutions (Unidentified)(appraisal US$ 0.20 million and actual US$0.20 million)

Borrower Contribution :
The original borrower commitment was expected to be in the form of in-contributions values at US$ 1.10 million. The
actual contribution was as expected, in kind contributions valued at US$ 1.10 million.

Dates:
The project closed on 12/31/2013. The original closing date of 12/31/2011 was extended by two years order to
compensate for the two years suspension.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Original Objective: Substantial

The original project objectives are aligned to the goal of improving the productivity and sustainable use of the natural
resource base in both the Government’s First Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and World Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy for Guinea for the period 2004-2006. The CAS explicitly identified the project as a means to
improve the management of Guinea’s environmental resources. The objective are also aligned with the GEF
Operational Program on Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems and the strategic priorities for biodiversity and
capacity building under GEF-3. In addition, they relevant for helping Guinea to meet its obligations as a signatory to
the UN Convention on Biodiversity, which Guinea ratified in 1993.

The project’s objectives are also relevant to regional strategies. Specifically, the New Partnership for Africa's
Development (NEPAD) which calls for greater attention by multilateral development institutions to rural development
and specifically targets the issue of natural resource degradation. In promoting environmentally sustainable and
socially inclusive alternative livelihood options the project objectives also conform to Pillar III of the World Bank’s
Africa Action Plan which calls for supporting the drivers of growth by increasing agricultural productivity through the
introduction of sustainable land management practices and building the capacity of women and the poor though
socially inclusive capacity building activities and support to income generation.

The original objectives were less relevant to Guinea’s development priorities at project closure. The ICR notes that
natural resources conservation remains as an indicator in the Country Partnership Framework for the period 2014 to
2016 but there is no indication of a follow up activity due to the Bank’s selectivity criteria. Likewise, the Government’s
National Development Plan did not provide a clear mention of the coastal marine protection. The ICR argues that the
signing of Alcatraz and Tristao as Marine Protected Areas by presidential decree indicates that the Government still
considers biodiversity important.

Relevance of Revised Objective: Modest
The revised objective is more narrowly focused on improving the conservation of coastal and marine biological
resources and no longer encompasses sustainable development. This revised objective is consistent with the GEF
Operational Program on Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems, the strategic priorities for biodiversity and
capacity building under GEF-3 and the UN Convention on Biodiversity. But it is not relevant to the Governments
2011-2012 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and its companion Priority Action Plan, which identify five priority areas
(good governance, poverty reduction, infrastructure, economic growth, and security). Nor is it relevant to the World
Bank’s Interim Strategy for (FY11-12) which is focused on stabilization of the country through improved economic
governance and macro stability; public services (including supporting social resilience to shocks); and creating jobs.
Nor is it relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy for the period FY 2014-FY2017 which highlights three strategic
areas of engagement: (i) improving governance and service delivery, (ii) stimulating growth and economic
diversification, and (iii) strengthening human capital. As with the original objective, the ICR notes that although coastal
marine protection is not mentioned in the Government’s current National Development Plan, the creation of Marine
Protected Areas by presidential decree is an indication that biodiversity remains of importance.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design: Modest
The ICR (pg. 11) notes that “the project’s development and environmental objective were not well designed in the
original results framework”. The original project objective statement could have been more clearly defined. The project
components were relevant to the achievement of the objectives but the design was complex and the project appraisal
document did not provide much sufficient information on how to operationalize them. The project design also
employed a participatory approach that was relevant to achieving the project objectives but it entails a long term
processes that were not adequately taken into account in the project’s design.

Revised Design: Modest
When the project was revised, the project’s objectives were simplified into a combined PDO/GEO and the
components were reduced in scope to focus only on those activities that would enable achievement of the revised DO
within the project’s remaining time period. The project’s participatory ecosystem approach was still considered valid
and was retained. The results chain was also revised to simplify it and to make it more focused. In the process,
indicators that were difficult to measure were dropped or replaced. However, the simplification of the results
framework removed critical outcome level links in the results chain, leaving a gap in the link between the project’s
outputs and its objectives. The ICR also notes that the restructured project lost its broader national relevance. It was
originally designed to influence national policy and institutions with regard to coastal marine and biodiversity
management but with the elimination of key PDO indicators it became a localized project narrowly focused on
protecting two marine protected areas.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   A level one restructuring was applied to the Project in April 2011. The Development Objective was revised.
Therefore, efficacy is evaluated against both its original and revised PDO by measuring achievements at the time of
project closing (December 2013).

Original Objective
“To promote rational management of the Recipient’s coastal biodiversity for both conservation and sustainable
development ends in selected priority areas (up to 17 of the Recipient’s Rural Development Communities), with a
focus on those around sites identified under the Ramsar List of Wetlands of International Importance and shared
watersheds, notably Alcatraz Island, Rio Pongo and Tristao Islands), with a particular emphasis on assisting
communities in and around these priority areas to plan, implement and maintain environmentally sustainable and
socially inclusive
alternative livelihood options”

The original project objective is broken into two parts that are rated separately below.

Sub-objective 1: “Promote rational management of the Recipient’s coastal biodiversity for both conservation and
sustainable development ends in selected priority areas .”

Outputs
 Two marine protected areas (MPAs) were formally created by Presidential decree, fully meeting the project target.
 Management plans for the two MPAs were prepared that clearly define local responsibilities over terrestrial and
marine ecosystems. However, the ICR notes (pg. 23) that funding to implement them is not yet assured.
 An ecosystem assessment and inventories of several flora and fauna were conducted in the MPAs.
 A monitoring and evaluation system for MPAs was established and is operational by project closure. It is included in
the management plans prepared for the 2 MPAs created by the project.
 The project did not meet its target of completing preparatory work on a second Coastal Integrated Conservation
Zone (ICZ), this was dropped during restructuring when the project scope was reduced, and the targeted area for the
second ICZ was no longer included in the project.

Outcome
The ICR does not report on evidence at an outcome level related to this objective. The project originally planned to
measure trend on five key species and water quality indicators to demonstrate outcomes related to this objective. But
this indicators was dropped at restructuring because they baseline data was not available. No the other outcome level
indicator was measured its place. While marine protected areas were established and several tools were developed to
aid in their management, no evidence is provide to show the extent to which these tools are being applied or the
results of their application on marine and biodiversity resources.

Achievement of this sub-objective is modest .

Sub-objective 2: "Assist communities in and around these priority areas to plan , implement and maintain
environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive alternative livelihood options .”

Outputs

    The resident populations in 11 communities were sensitized, organized and trained in environmental matters in
     two MPA sites and local stakeholder management committees were created.
    The project strengthened the capacity of the 11 Rural Development Communities (CRDs) to implement Local
     Development Plans and Annual Investment Plans, with support from local development agents recruited by the
     project. According to the ICR, the local development plans contain conservation measures. But it is not clear how
     the plans will be funded following project closure.
    The project financed 94 micro-projects that were implemented by project closure (exceeding the target of 60). Of
     which 59% were women (exceeding the target of 30%).

Outcome
The micro-project financed under the project were expected to reduce anthropic pressure on natural resources. But
the ICR does not provide sufficient information on the results of the micro projects to determine whether or not they
are having the intended effect. The project originally included an indicator to measure the extent to which the micro
projects had stabilized the natural resource base in areas under cultivation in project watershed target sites, but it was
not measured and was dropped during project restructuring.

Achievement of this sub-objective is modest .

Revised Objective
"To improve the conservation of the Recipient’s coastal and marine biological resources in selected Ramsar Sites ”

Outputs
The outputs noted under the original project objectives are also relevant to the achievement of this objective. In
addition the following outputs were reported:
  100 personnel at the Ministry of Environment attended training for MPA management (target of 60 personnel
     exceeded by 167%). But no information is provided to indicate the extent that capacity of Ministry staff has
     increased as a result of the training, this would require evidence that the training had been effective and was
     being applied.
  A toolkit to establish, manage and monitor MPAs was developed and replicated by project closure (fully meeting
     the project target).
  Work was ongoing at project closure to put in place a permanent environmental information and data hub for the
     coastal zone. A data hub was under development but further work was required to integrate data from different
     sources.
  The project did not meet its target of having a detailed proposal for sustainable financing for MPAs by project
     closure. The ICR reports that a workshop to discuss alternatives was held and the Government was working on
     establishing a conservation trust fund with a specific window for MPAs. But a detailed proposal was not available
     as of project closure. ICR also notes that short term prospects for this are unlikely.
  A permanent forum for coastal zone coordination and exchange was not achieved by project closure. Two
     coordination meetings were under the project but the ICR reports that since the project's closure no meeting have
     been held due to lack of financing. The ICR notes that during the last forum participants recommended
     establishing inter-ministerial committee to implement recommendations that came out of the fora, but costs would
     need to be Ministry after project closure, which seems unlikely.
  Local units and inter-CRD committees for the co-management of MPAs with local communities became
    operational in 2013 but their sustainability is questionable. The ICR (pg. 24) reports that village supervision
    committees and inter-district committees were established in the 7 CRDs in the two MPAs. "The committees
    received initial training and were equipped with a motorcycle so they can be operational. However, given the
    short period of time since their creation (the supervision committees) are not very strong...(without further
    funding) it is unlikely they will remain functional after project closure."

Outcomes
The ICR reports that the Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (METT) applied to the two MPAs generated a 12
point improvement. A baseline METT was assessed in June 2012 and a follow up METT was conducted in October
2013. The ICR notes that, the METT is based on 30 questions. Each of which is assigned a score from 0 to 3. A 1
point improvement means that some aspect has either improved from poor to satisfactory or satisfactory to excellent.
The 12 areas in which an improvement was noted were:
1. The MPA has been gazetted;
2. The available information is sufficient for planning purposes;
3. 75% of stakeholders are sensitized to the marine resources and their threats;
4. An approved management plan exists but is only partly applied due to financial constraints;
5. A research inventory addressing the needs of the AMP exists;
6. The available staff is sufficient to manage the AMP;
7. An M&E system exists, although the results are not systematically used for management purposes;
8. Management objectives are sufficiently clear;
9. Threats to the AMP have been somewhat reduced;
10. Living conditions of the population have been somewhat improved;
11. Environmental awareness has been improved; and
12. 50% - 75% of stakeholders are satisfied with the process of creating the AMP.

The METT score is insufficient on its own to demonstrate achievement of this objective at the outcome level. It does
not demonstrate that marine and biodiversity resources in the MPAs are better conserved as a result of the
improvements in these twelve areas. In addition, as with the original objective there is no evidence is provide to show
the extent to which the management tools developed by the project are being applied or the results of their application
on the conservation of marine and biodiversity resources. There are several statements in the ICR, that indicate that
there are insufficient resources for implementing the management tools, including in the METT assessment itself.

Achievement of this objective is rated Modest.

5. Efficiency:
 Modest
Economic and Financial Efficiency

A quantitative cost-benefit analysis was not carried out at appraisal because the expected capacity building benefits
had undetermined life expectancies and could not be quantified in monetary terms. In addition, the demand-driven
nature of investments left the specific investments under the GEF Project undetermined. Further, not enough
information was known about investment attitudes of the rural communities to attempt a simulation exercise (p. 72
PAD).

A cost-benefit analysis was not carried out at closure because of insufficient information. According to the ICR the
environmental, social and capacity-building benefits in particular were difficult to quantify. In addition, the ICR team
found it difficult to assess the value and cost-effectiveness of the many studies/consultancies that had been produced
(close to 20% of project costs). The ICR (pg. 14) notes that “many of them were produced with significant delays and
a consultant had to summarize the different studies so that they could be internalized by project staff”, which suggests
inefficiencies. Finally, the costs and benefits of micro-projects (which also accounted for about 20% of project costs)
were not systematically recorded and analyzed. In addition, the ICR notes that a reliable assessment of the economic
results of the micro project investments could only be done after several years.

The ICR presented the results of a socio-economic survey carried out at project closure, which found that the micro
projects had demonstrated several benefits. But it does not indicate whether the micro projects were cost effective
because it does not factor in costs. It is also unclear to what extent these benefits are the result of micro projects
versus other factors, because the ICR does not explain the survey methodology. The survey was administered to 9 of
the 11 Rural Communes in the project area and covered topics related to the economic, social, organizational and
institutional impact of the micro-projects that had been financed by the project. The reported benefits were:
1. The volume of production of all groups increased considerably, and those groups that only had one production
cycle per year decreased from 75.8% to 30.3%. Most groups produced two, three, or more times per year.
2. The number of markets supplied by these groups increased from 75 to 104. Prior to the project most groups
delivered their production to two markets and now, they served three markets. Before the project, the markets served
were mostly local (84%) and now 50% of the groups reached markets beyond their village.
3. The business volume of 4 out of 5 groups has increased. The increases vary from > 6 million GNF (9%); 3-6 million
Guinée Nouveau Franc (GNF) (14.8% of groups); 1-3 million GNF (55.6% of groups); and < 1 million GNF (22.2% of
groups).
4. Several organizational changes were brought including: regular holding of meetings; consensual group decision
making; keeping of accounting books; application of technical advice by extension agents; participative planning of
activities; increase in mutual financial support among group members; support and advice to other village groups; and
organization of practical training sessions with extension agents.
Administrative Efficiency

Administrative efficiency is assessed in two phases: (i) a first phase (from effectiveness in July 2007 to December
2010) during which the project was stalled; and (ii) a second phase (after restructuring in April 2011 until project
closing in December 2013).

First Phase: The project experienced a number of implementation inefficiencies in this period. During 2007–2008
hardly any activities were carried out on the ground. There was high turnover of national project staff creating
implementation hurdles. For instance, the new PIU staff was unfamiliar with the project and they seemed to be under
the erroneous impression that Component 3: Local Investment Fund could only be started once all the legal measures
related to the establishment of the MPAs had been concluded. This delayed the start of the micro-projects. From
2008 to 2010, the country experienced political upheaval and turmoil, and disbursements were suspended for two
years (page #7 of the ICR).
Second Phase: During the remaining two years of implementation there were fewer inefficiencies, activities in the field
were implemented and disbursement rates increased accordingly.

Due to the lack adequate information on costs and benefits, the inefficiencies in administration of the project, and
inefficiencies in the implementation of activities such as consultancies, project efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    As part of level 1 restructuring, project development objective was revised. Therefore, the overall outcome rating
was determined by (1) outcome based on ratings of relevance, efficacy, efficiency measured against the original key
associated outcome targets and all assessed over the entire duration of the project combined with; (2) outcome based
on ratings of relevance, efficacy, efficiency measured against the restructured key associated outcome targets all
assessed over the entire duration of the project. The two outcome ratings were combined using disbursement for the
periods before and after restructuring, respectively.

Original ratings - The relevance of the project objective is substantial and design is rated modest. The efficacy of
achievement of the two sub-objectives are modest as is efficiency. This yields an outcome rating of Unsatisfactory.

Restructured ratings - The relevance of the revised objectives and design are rated modest. The efficacy of
achievement of the project objective is rated modest. Efficiency is rated modest. The modest rating of all three
dimensions of project outcome results in an Unsatisfactory outcome rating.

Overall Outcome. At the time of Board approval, 12.6% of the loan had been disbursed. Given the unsatisfactory
rating for original Outcome of 2, its weighted value is (2 x 0.13) = 0.26. Given an unsatisfactory rating for restructured
Outcome of 2, its weighted value is (2 x 0.87) = 1.74. Together these sum to 2 = Unsatisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Project gains face several risks. The ICR points out that implementation on the ground only took place for two years
and its gains made need further consolidation and the agencies in charge of managing the MPAs and the micro
projects need continued reinforcement. As noted in the section of efficacy the management committees created the
two MPAs need further support to remain operational and funding for implementation of MPA management plans is
not assured. While the Government is now better aware of the importance and benefits of protecting the coastal
marine zone and its biodiversity, there is still uncertainty that it will be able to mobilize the resources to ensure that
adequate follow up support is provided. A study on sustainable financing was not carried out by the project and, at the
time of the ICR's writing no resources had been earmarked to finance the implementation of the management plans.
At project closure the Ministry of the Environment was actively pursuing the establishment of a trust fund for natural
resources management, including a window for the financing of coastal/marine protected areas, but the ICR notes that
this initiative could take several years. The fate of the MPAs also depends on whether Guinea follows a sustainable
economic development path. Given long term nature of project objectives the risks are significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project appraisal document was comprehensive in a number of areas, including a roots threat analysis and
an assessment of the project intervention and target sites. But it fell short in its assessment of the project's
institutional and implementation arrangements and the risks of political and institutional instability were
overlooked. In addition, there was no comprehensive strategy for institutional strengthening. According to the ICR,
it was assumed that this could be done through a series of uncoordinated studies with technical assistance. This
to too many consultancy contracts. The ICR also notes that the technical reference manual for selected
micro-projects was not done at preparation, it was only prepared in 2011, which in turn delayed implementation of
the micro-projects. The ICR also critique the original project design for having too much of a research orientation.
The project's results framework was overly complex and out of step with the implementing agencies capacity. It
included a large number of environmental indicators that had no baseline and some were difficult to measure in
the project time frame, placing a large burden on the implementing agency. In addition, the project lacked an
appropriate exit strategy. Insufficient attention given to what would happen once the project came to an end and
no short and longer-term training plan was prepared.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Over the life of the project, there were 15 implementation support missions and three task team leaders
(TTLs). The implementation support missions became regular only at the beginning of 2011, after the stabilization
of the political situation, and the Bank’s re-engagement with the country. The composition and skill mix of project
implementation support missions were reported to have been adequate. In addition to the TTL, supervision
mission included environmental specialist, and specialized staff for finance, procurement, accounting,
disbursement and social safeguard measures. Mission members came from both HQ and the field.

During the initial years of the project, the Bank supervision team was unable to overcome implementation
challenges that arose as result of the overly complex project design, which was not sufficiently understood by
national project staff, and the political and institutional instability in the country. The Bank implementation support
teams were also unable to correct the original lack of clarity in the design of the M&E system and to provide timely
assistance to the Government implementing agencies. Disbursements and supervision missions by the Bank were
suspended between November 2008 and 2010.

When the Bank re-engaged in 2011, the project was simplified, which allowed implementation to get back on
track. Through the formal restructuring the PDO/GEO and components were simplified and the results framework
was revised. With the reduction in indicators and the introduction of more measurable ones, data collection and
use became much more systematic and the monitoring framework was regularly updated. However, the revised
indicators did not allow for an adequate assessment of project outcomes. The closing date was also extended to
compensate for the two years suspension. The restructuring paper was elaborated in a participatory manner and
training in project management was provided to project staff. This led to the development of a greater sense of
ownership by the client. As a result, the dialogue between the Recipient and the Bank improved significantly and
more of a partnership developed, this contributed to a situation in which recommendations that were made by
implementation support missions were followed up by actions on the part of the National Coordination Unit.
According to the ICR (pg. 17), the improved partnership was most likely due to a combination of factors: a) a
change in TTL/task teams and b) a more clearly defined project that was better understood by the Guineans,
therefore easier to successfully implement with fewer disappointments and criticisms on both sides. The Bank was
also proactive in mobilizing additional safeguards training when capacity limitations came to light.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     Initially government commitment to the project was negatively affected by the political and institutional
instability. However, once the political turmoil in the country was overcome, the newly elected government showed
its interest and commitment to the project. The Presidential Decree was issued and the two MPAs were signed on
May 30, 2013.

Following project restructuring there was no interference from the Government in day-to-day management
decisions. In 2012, the Government organized a multi-donor workshop, including representatives of the mining
companies, international donors and NGOs, to discuss possibilities for establishing a trust fund for natural
resource conservation with the participation of all the major international donors of Guinea and the international
mining companies that were active in the country. According to the ICR, unfortunately, this initiative did not yet
lead to tangible results but the Ministry of Environment continues to work on the establishment of a trust fund for
natural resource management and protection of specific sites (p. 18 of the ICR).

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project National Coordination Unit (Cellule Nationale de Coordination, CNC), was responsible for the
overall management and coordination of the project. This unit also implemented another Bank funded project, The
Village Community Support Program. The CNC was strengthened under the project with the addition of key staff
that included: a technical specialist in NRM familiar with GEF policies and procedures, a safeguards specialist, an
M&E specialist, and environmental education specialist for training people at the local level. The CNC was also
supported by a Natural Resource Management focal point based in the provincial capital close to the MPAs and
by decentralized teams at the local levels. According to the ICR the CNC team was competent and committed
and did a good job of explaining the project’s objective to local stakeholders (population, local politicians and
elected officials, and decentralized staff of the various ministries involved) and in getting their buy in. The support
of various ministerial staff at the local level to the project management set-up allowed for efficient identification,
implementation and supervision of NRM and income generating micro-projects. However, a high level of turnover
of national level staff was disruptive to implementation during the initial 2006-2008 period. Overall project
management was satisfactory but there were some weaknesses in the administration of consultancy contracts
and studies and in the timely preparation of procurement plans. Also, the results of some of the studies were not
fully internalized and diffused beyond the Project Implementation Unit. Implementation of components 1 and 2 of
the project were managed by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Water, the National Directorate for Forestry
and Water and the National Fisheries Institute were in charge, with the support of the CNC. The ICR reports that
their performance was satisfactory.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
       The original M&E system was designed to determine: (i) links between poverty reduction/activity systems
dynamics and the state of biodiversity; (ii) pertinence, efficacy and replicability of the new approach toward
sustainable local development; and (iii) the overall impact of the project. It proposed following methods and tools to do
so: (i) detailed baseline studies covering biodiversity, activity systems and poverty; and (ii) an evaluation system
consisting of four modules for comparison of the evolution of different indicators. The four modules included: (a) state
of coastal and marine ecosystem; (b) rural activity systems evolution; (c) poverty; and (d) capacities. Each module
was supposed to include a certain number of surveys with a common sample of households/production units.
A state of the ecosystem evaluation was planned to take place during mid-term and end-term. These surveys were
supposed to be coupled with consumer surveys that would have made it possible to know the type and amount of
resources extracted from the natural environment by the households and used for the different domestic and
commercial purposes. Finally, a poverty dashboard that would use indicators was also planned. A dashboard was
proposed to use indicators such as monetary poverty, living standards indicators, access to resources, and qualitative
indicators to identify local perception of poverty.

However, according to the ICR, the system as designed was too ambitious and was highly oriented towards research
and science with little regard for practical implementation. Annex 3 of the Project Appraisal Document provides hardly
any information on the key operational elements of the project’s M&E system. There were too many indicators and
some of those selected were difficult to measure. Examples of hard-to-measure outcome indicators were:
“Stabilization of natural resource base in areas under cultivation in project watershed target sites” and “Positive trend
for key species and water quality indicators.”

 b. M&E Implementation:
      The lack of specificity in the description of the M&E system in the PAD, its overemphasis on research and
science aspects, and the technical capacity constraints of the implementing agencies made the establishment and
implementation of M&E a difficult task. The initial Bank implementation support teams were not able to correct the
original lack of clarity in the design of the M&E system or to provide timely assistance to the Government
implementing agencies. At restructuring, the M&E system was simplified and the results framework and monitoring
indicators were adjusted, dropping and replacing the indicators that were cumbersome to measure. The indicators
related to the stabilization of the natural resource base and the measurement of trends for key species and water
quality were dropped, as these could only be measured after a longer period than the newly agreed upon closing date.
Studies related to ecosystem development were also canceled for the same reason. However, the revised indicators
were insufficient for measuring the achievement of the project objectives outcome level, they were all output
indicators.

With the modifications introduced during the restructuring, the M&E system performed much better. With the reduction
in indicators and the introduction of more measurable ones, data collection and use became much more systematic
and the monitoring framework was regularly updated. Data were collected by the different executing agencies at the
local, regional and national levels and synthesized by the National Coordination Unit. The Management Effectiveness
Tracking Tools for biodiversity (METT) for Tristao and Alcatraz were filled out by Guinean Office of Parks
(OGUIPAR).The baseline study carried out by the Observatoire Guinée Maritime (OGM) during project preparation
was supposed to be repeated at the end of the project but it did not materialize. The ICR notes that the original
baseline study was a voluminous three part descriptive report of several hundred pages that was not synthesized.

Towards the end of the project the M&E system was expanded to include an ecological monitoring system for MPA
management. However, operationalization of the ecological monitoring system for MPA management was only started
during the final year of project implementation and was still ongoing at the time of the ICR’s writing. The local
conservation teams established under the decrees creating the two MPAs also received the necessary equipment
(boat, radio VHF, GPS, motor cycles) and were trained.

c. M&E Utilization:
    The ICR provides little information on the use of information generated by the M&E system.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as category B and triggered the Bank policies related to: environmental assessment (OP
4.01), natural habitats (OP 4.04), and involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12). The necessary safeguards instruments
were prepared and disclosed prior to appraisal. The ICR reports that safeguard specialists regularly reviewed
environmental and social safeguard aspects during implementation support missions and did not report any major
issues.

Environment
An environment assessment was carried out for all proposed micro-projects and screening forms were developed to
exclude those that might have had a negative environmental impact. No micro-project was funded unless it passed
this test. Committees were set up to follow up on the environmental aspects of micro-projects. Local staff of the
various technical ministries, especially forest guards and agricultural extension agents but also local elected officials,
were trained in environmental safeguard measures and in filling out the screening forms.

There was weak knowledge of ESMF by field staff involved with the selection of the last batch of micro-projects but
this was addressed by the Bank by bringing it to the attention of safeguard specialist in the National Coordination Unit
and sanctioning safeguards training for the involved persons. According to the ICR (pg. 10) “during its last year, the
project was instrumental in promoting a nation-wide use of the World Bank’s safeguard policies in all of the
micro-projects carried out by the VCSP”, a Bank funded community development project that was implemented in
parallel.

Natural habitats
No information on compliance measures is provided except that MPAs secured coastal natural habitats and mangrove
forests.

Social
No resettlement was involved under the project. The approach taken by the project was to accept that people would
continue living within the MPAs, with mandatory acceptance of the binding rules on the access and use of natural
resources. In return, they were compensated through income generating activities promoted under the micro-projects.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
Procurement was centralized in the CNC and whenever possible, purchases were grouped with procurements under
VCSP2 for economies of scale. At times, procurement plans were not updated in a timely manner and some issues
regarding the recording of procurement files at the national and regional levels were noted and corrected.
Procurement of consultancy services for studies was often delayed as the quality of Terms of References was often
weak and had to be thoroughly reviewed by the task team which involved lengthy interactions with the PIU.

Financial Management

The financial management system was part of the VCSP set-up and used the same financial management procedures
that had been adapted from the manual prepared for the first phase of the VCSP. Project accounts were regularly kept
and withdrawal applications were prepared directly from the project’s accounting software. However, given the fact
that financial matters involved local communities and a regional project unit, justifications for expenditures were often
delayed.

Financial statements were audited and certified without qualifications. However, the accounting software was weak in
terms of not allowing for automatic consolidation of data for the preparation of financial statements, which had to be
done by hand. The ICR reports that the manual process required close supervision by the Bank Financial
Management Specialist but that it did not have a negative impact on project implementation.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
According to the ICR, the project has had a demonstration effect that goes beyond the project area. World Bank
safeguard policies regarding environmental and social aspects of projects are now applied to all socio-economic
infrastructure projects financed by VCSP 2, which are systematically screened. Due to the training and sensitization
activities of the project, micro-projects that protected natural resources directly or indirectly became frequent.
Micro-projects are now often in second place after social infrastructure investments such as schools and health posts
and are no longer considered at the end priority list in the local development plans.


d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                Unsatisfactory          For both the original and revised
                               Unsatisfactory                                    project, all three dimensions of the
                                                                                 outcome rating were modest
                                                                                  (relevance, efficacy and efficiency),
                                                                                  according to the OPCS/IEG
                                                                                  harmonized rating criteria this
                                                                                  corresponds to an Unsatisfactory rating.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  Four of the ICR lessons modified by IEG are reported below:
MPA management is a long term process contingent on continued funding. Prospects for one or more follow-on
operations, financed by the Bank and/or other donors should be assessed prior to creation of MPAs, as it is unlikely
that this process can be finalized within the usual 5-year time framework of the Bank Projects.

In high risk environments like Guinea the stability of Bank and Borrower core teams is important. The use of Skype
or other communication technologies can facilitate timely trouble shooting by ensuring frequent communication
between the two teams.

Multi-dimensional and multi sectoral projects require implementation through multiple institutions and need an
integrated approach to institutional strengthening that goes beyond short term consultancies and separate studies.

The clear definition of outcome indicators with base line data is a critical part of project preparation and if revisions
to indicators are needed attention should be paid to ensuring that the revised indicators are sufficiently outcome
oriented. Outcome indicators should be relevant, simple and measurable. If no baseline data is available for any
chosen indicator, it should be either dropped or replaced with another plausible indicator that could measure the
achievement of the DO. When revising key performance that are difficult to measure it is important that the new
indicators measure results at the outcome level, otherwise they will be insufficient for demonstrating satisfactory
achievement of the project objectives.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR describes the implementation of the project clearly. Its extensive report of project investments gives the
reader a good idea of project activities and problems faced. The section on lessons learnt is evidence based and
comprehensive. Stakeholders are well defined and the draft endorses their participation in various segments of the
project cycle.

The quality of the ICR falls short in the following areas:
The safeguards section does not mention measures taken to comply with the Bank policy on Natural habitats (OP
4.04).
The ICR does not provides details on the original component that was excluded during restructuring and on what
grounds it was excluded or how the five original components were compromised to develop the four restructured
components.
The costs by component in Annex 1 do not reflect the full costs of each component, it only reflects the cost financed
by GEF.
The ICR does not use the correct rating score in assessing the achievement of objectives. Its uses a six point rating
scale, whereas OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines call for a four point rating scale.
The split rating methodology has not been applied to all appropriate sections.
The ICR does not assess the relevance of the original and revised objectives separately. Instead there is one
combined discussion of relevance.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
