Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3364 IN
                  (Gas Flaring Reduction Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 11, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3364 IN
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1991, between INDIA,
acting by its President (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Oil and Natural Gas
Commission (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to
extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to four hundred fifty million dollars
($450,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the
Page  2
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of
the Borrower;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in the Loan
Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely,
the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the
Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to
be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall establish and
maintain a gas pricing policy which relates closely the
domestic gas prices to the international prices of fuel
oil and shall, prior to making any changes in said
policy, exchange views with the Bank.
      Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall establish and
maintain an agency in its Department of Petroleum and
Natural Gas to monitor quarterly the implementation of
oil and gas field developments in India; shall revise gas
production and utilization plans based on  such
monitoring; and shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
quarterly reports on the implementation of said plans.
      Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such
action as necessary to ensure that the allocation of gas
to end-users is economically efficient, and, to this end,
shall furnish to the Bank each year a report on such
allocations.
      Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall enter into an
Page  3
agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the Borrower for
the payment by the Borrower of a guarantee fee of one
percent (1%) per annum to the Guarantor on the principal
amounts of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under
Secretary of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                   New Delhi
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INDIA
                         By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  4
                                                              Asia
