Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18463
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
October 6, 1998
South Asia Energy Sector
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
The following were the exchange rates between the Rupee (Rs) and the US dollar (US$) during the
project's implementation period.
Year                   Rs/US$
1991/92                   24.5
1992/93                   28.9
1993/94                   31.4
1994/95                   33.0
1995/96                   34.0
1996/97                   36.0
1997/98                   38.7
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I cubic meter (cm)    =        35.3 cubic feet (cf)
1 thousand cubic meters (mcm)    =       35.3 mcf
1 million cubic meters (mmcm)     =       35.3 mmcf
1 billion cubic meters (bcm)   =       35.3 bcf
I thousand cubic meters of natural gas         9.31 kilocalories
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =      10.2 million kilocalories
1 barrel (bbl) 0.85 SG crude oil  =      0.135 ton
0.159 cu. meter
42 US gallons
1 metric ton of oil (33 0 API)          7.36 barrels (bbl)
I metric ton heavy oil (17.0° API)   =       6.60 barrels (bbl)
I normal cubic meter (Ncm)             37.32 standard cubic feet (scf)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI                  Govemment of India
ONGC                 Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited
GAIL                 Gas Authority India Limited
IOC                  Indian Oil Corporation
NTPC                 National Thermal Power Company
OPRCA                Oil Pollution Response Cooperation Agreement
GFRP                 Gas Flaring Reduction Project
HBJ                  Hazira-Bijapur-Jagdishpur
J-Exim               Export-Import Bank of Japan
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
HUT                  Heera-Uran Trunk Pipeline
SBHT                 South Bassein-Hazira Trunk Pipeline
BPA, BPD             South Bassein Production Platformns A and D
GOR                  Gas Oil Ratio
Vice President:     : Mieko Nishimizu
Director:           : Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:     : Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Leader:        : Hannachi Morsli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
Loan 3364-IN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background ....................... ..1
Objectives and Implementation ..........................
Achievement of Objectives .........................5
Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................7
Project Sustainability .........................8
Bank Performance .........................9
Borrower Performance .........................9
Assessment of Outcome ........................                                                          10
Future Operations .........................1 I
Key Lessons Learned ........................1  I
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related IDA Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimate and Actual Credit Disbursements                     .16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................... 16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B: Project Financing .19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .19
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table 12: Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 13:  Use of Bank Resources: Major Project Missions .21
APPENDICES
Appendix A: ONGC Operational Plan ..............................................                        22
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation ..............................................                        24
Appendix C: Project Area Overall Production and Supply Profile ..............................................  36
MAP - IBRD 22892
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Flaring
Reduction Project (GFRP) in India, for which Loan 3364-IN -- in the amount of US$450
million equivalent to the petroleum company Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.
(ONGC) -- was approved on June 25, 1991 and made effective on July 12, 1991. ONGC
was the borrower and the implementing agency, and the Government of India (GOI) was
the guarantor.
The Loan closed on December 31, 1997, after three extensions to the original
closing date of December 31, 1995, consisting of a first 6 month-period to June 1996, a
second one year period to June 30, 1997, and a third 6 month-period to December 1997.
The loan has been fully disbursed, with the last disbursement made on March 3, 1998.
The project was co-financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Loan 1222-IND, in
the amount of US$241 million, and the J-Exim, in the amount of US$51.1 million. The
J-Exim's loan was administered by the Bank. It closed on June 30, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by H. Morsli, Principal Petroleum Engineer, Energy,
Mining and Telecommunications Department, Oil and Gas Unit (EMTOG), Team Leader
of the project during the period of 1995-97. It was reviewed by Mr. Vijay Iyer, Acting
Sector Manager, South Asia Energy Sector Unit.
Preparation of this ICR was based on material in the project files. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own project evaluation
(Appendix B). Draft copies of the ICR were sent to the government, ONGC, GAIL, J-
Exim and ADB. As of September 3, 1998, comments were received only from GAIL,
while J-Exim indicated that they had no comments.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    In 1990, the government requested Bank support in a project aimed at eliminating
the flaring of associated natural gas (gas that occurs with oil, either as free or in solution
with oil) in the Bombay High oilfield and use that gas to reduce the country's growing
energy shortage. At the time of project appraisal in 1991, more than 12 million cubic
meters (mmcm) per day of associated gas was flared in the Bombay High oilfield. At the
same time, India was facing increasing energy shortages and experiencing a large gap
between petroleum demand and domestic supply. Forecasts then showed a doubling of
petroleum demand, from approximately 45 million tons (mmt) in 1990-91 to about 90
nmt in 2000, while output from the Bombay High oilfield, which supplied about 60
percent of the country's domestic oil production, was expected to decline rapidly. In
addition, an increase in crude oil prices due to the Gulf crisis raised the country's oil
import bill by about $1,200 million, causing severe macro-economic imbalances, with the
foreign exchange reserves reaching an all time low (covering about two to three weeks of
imports). As part of its strategy to deal with these economic pressures, the government
gave high priority to efforts that would lead to the utilization of natural gas that was
flared in the Bombay High oilfield. The main obstacle, however, was the lack of gas
production and transmission infrastructure for the recovery of flared gas. The Bank was
in a unique position to assist the government in this effort, since it had accumulated
considerable experience with India's petroleum sector as a result of its support for six
petroleum projects during the 1981-1990 period. The project built on the lessons that
were learnt from these projects and led to an intensive dialogue with the government on
options and strategy for the long-term development of the gas sector.
Objectives and Design
ii.    The project's objectives were to (a) reduce the country's energy shortages by
recovering the associated gas that was flared in the Bombay High oilfield and supplying
it to the densely populated northwestern region, (b) optimize the Bombay High oilfield's
development and production, (c) improve energy use efficiency in the northwestern
region, and (d) promote greater involvement of the private sector in the oil and gas
industry. In addition, two other objectives were implied but not explicitly stated in the



SAR. These were to assist the government in (i) eliminating the damage to the global
environment due to the flaring of natural gas with a high content of methane, which is an
important greenhouse gas, and (ii) formulating appropriate policies that would foster t]he
development of efficient gas markets in India.
iii.   To meet these objectives, the project's main components consisted of (a)
construction of two offshore process platforms in the Bombay High oilfield, (b)
modification of 18 existing old process platforms, (c) construction of two offshore trunk
gas pipelines, one from the Bombay High oilfield to the Heera-Uran gas trunk pipeline to
supply gas to the Bombay area and the other from the South Bassein gas field to the
onshore Hazira gas processing terminal to supply gas to the northwestern region, (d)
expansion of the existing onshore Hazira gas processing terminal, (e) optimization of t]he
Bombay High oilfield's reservoir management, (f) development of an appropriate safety
and environrnent policy, (g) promotion of private sector participation, and (h) training and
technical assistance.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   The project's implementation originally was to span from mid-1991 to December
1995. However, due to lengthy negotiations, the co-financing agreement between the
government and J-Exim was signed in July 1993, two years later than the original plan.
As a result, implementation of the J-Exim financed component -- the expansion of the
Hazira gas terminal -- was carried out two years behind schedule. Because of a much
faster than predicted response from the Bombay High oilfield reservoir pressure
maintenance, the field's gas-oil-ratio decreased much more rapidly than projected,
resulting in a downward revision of the field's total gas production. To meet the project's
gas supply commitment, the production of the South Bassein gasfield had to be increased.
In addition, two small size gas structures in the Bombay offshore area had to be
developed. Furthermore, the Hazira gas terminal expansion program had to be adjusted
for more sour gas capacity than originally planned.
v.    The new production increase and the additional capacity expansion at the Hazira
gas terminal required redesigning of some of the components to include additional works,
which remained within the project scope. In spite of these changes, implementation of
the project's physical components was highly satisfactory. The project was completed as
scheduled, by mid-1995 for the World Bank financed components and December 1997
for the J-Exim financed components. Bombay High's gas flaring was completely
eliminated by 1993-94 and the field's reservoir management significantly improved. The
project increased the gas supply to the northwestern region from about 19 mmcm/d to 38
mmcm/d and to the Bombay area from 11.5 mmcm/d to about 15 mmcm/d. In addition,
the project has increased India's oil production by about 4.5 mmt per year. Furthermore,
it has provided the oil and gas sector with complete safety and environment standards and
adequate oil spill response and control capability.



iii
vi.   Significant progress was made in the development of key sector policies and
improvements in the efficiency of major institutions of the sector. Most of these
developments took place during the last three years of project implementation. In
September 1997, the government increased gas prices and decided to dismantle the
administered price formula, replacing it with a market determined price mechanism. Gas
prices were fixed at about 55% of the international FOB price of a basket of fuel oils. To
attract the private sector, new petroleum exploration and development incentives were
introduced in 1997. Decisions were also taken by the government in early 1998 for the
liberalization of the downstream sector, particularly the import of petroleum products
and crude oil. ONGC's legal status was changed from a government agency to a public
company.  The corporatization of the company, however, has been slow.  The
government's disinvestment program, which was initiated in 1994, was still in its startup
phase in December 1997.
Sustainability of Project Achievements
vii.  The elimination of gas flaring and the subsequent environmental benefits derived
from it in the Bombay High oilfield will be fully sustainable throughout the remaining
life of the project. Enough gas reserves were proven to ensure that the level of gas supply
for the northwestern region and the Bombay area could be sustained at least through
2010, provided that additional field developments are undertaken in the near future. The
government's decision to rationalize gas pricing will lead to further consolidation of the
policy and institutional achievements made during the last three years of the project. It is,
however, the result of ongoing petroleum exploration and development activities that will
determine the sustainability of the private sector's involvement.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
viii.  The project yielded several valuable insights.  Among the more important
findings are: (a) a project that has the full support of all stakeholders will most likely be
implemented on time (the project provided, indirectly through the introduction of
appropriate reservoir management measures, considerable assistance for the increase in
oil output from the Bombay High oilfield. This moved the project into focus of attention
of the highest government officials in the country), (b) in an energy supply constrained
country, eliminating gas flaring is highly beneficial to the country's energy balance as
well as to the local and global environment. India is still flaring a substantial quantity of
associated gas in Assam. That gas can be either used locally for power generation or re-
injected for storage, (c) contracting specialized field service companies with properly
designed work program improves the quality and cost effectiveness of field operations,
(d) complex co-financing arrangements and resulting delays can defeat the project's
economic viability, (e) well integrated technical assistance for onsite managerial and
operational expertise improves the project's performance, (f) to effectively develop the
gas market and achieve more economic resource allocation, suppliers should be allowed
to divert gas to high-value consumption, (g) achieving policy and institutional objectives
should be viewed as a long-term process for which, in the case of India, setting up of an



iv
independent regulatory agency and obtaining a clearly stated government commitment to
the changes should be the first priority, and (h) improving the legal and fiscal framework
to promote private sector participation without streamlining the negotiation process does
not enhance private sector participation.
ix.   In addition, it became clear that Bombay High oilfield is much more complex
than anticipated, and is yet to be fully developed. Based on the reservoir management
study and recent production data, in order to minimize the risk of another rapid
production decline, the field requires additional development, particularly infill drilling to
reduce well spacing. The ongoing water injection for pressure maintenance would not
sustain the current level of production as it was intended and could rather damage the
field's reservoir (water breakthroughs). The timing of additional development is highly
critical to the ultimate oil and gas recovery from the field. The gas market in India has
been slow to develop in spite of a huge gas demand potential (India's only major gas
pipeline, the 1,700-km Hazira-Bijapur-Jagdishpur pipeline, was operated below its
capacity from the time of its construction, in 1987, until completion of the GFRP's major
components in 1995-96). A safety and environmental protection legislation and an
independent agency to enforce it are urgently required given the magnitude of oil and gas
activities in India, both offshore and onshore.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.   India's petroleum consumption growth has been one of the highest in the Asia
Pacific Region over the recent years. It increased from 6 to 6.5% during the 1960-91
period, 6.5 to 9.3% during 1992-94, after which it came down to about 8% in 1995-96
before resuming its growth since then. With a modest increase in its proved oil reserves,
from 3.5 billion barrels (bbls) in the mid-70s when it discovered the Bombay High
oilfield, to about 4.3 billion bbls in 1997, India had been a net importer of oil and would
remain so for the foreseeable future. With a growing demand, which reached about 1.7
million bbl/d in 1996, and no significant increase in domestic production (about 790,000
bblld-37 mmt/y in 1997) for the last ten years, India's oil imports will continue to
increase in order to meet its consumption, which, although constrained, has reached about
1.7 million bbl/d-83 mmt/y in 1997. With an oil reserve-to-production ratio of about 15.5
years and a growing oil import bill, the government decided to focus equally on natural
gas, of which the country's proved reserves increased from about 100 billion cubic meters
(bcm) in the mid-70s to about 500 bcm in 1991. However, India, which was flaring a
substantial quantity of associated gas, particularly in the Bombay High oilfield, had a
limited gas infrastructure, except the Hazira-Bijapur-Jagdishpur (HBJ) gas pipeline which
was commissioned in 1987, but operated at less capacity due to limited gas production
capacity. In view of the large investment requirements, the government requested Bank
support in a project, the Gas Flaring Reduction Project (GFRP), which was intended to
assist India in the development of its natural gas sector.
Objectives and Implementation
2.    Objectives. The project's objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), were to (a) recover a significant quantity, about 12 million cubic meters per day
(mmcm/d), of associated gas flared in the Bombay High oilfield and supply that gas to
the country's western region market, (b) improve the Bombay High oilfield's reservoir
management in order to reduce and contain a significant decline in oil production and
optimize the ultimate hydrocarbon recovery, (c) reduce energy shortages and improve
energy use efficiency in India's western region, and (d) promote greater private sector
involvement in India's oil and gas industry. In addition, two other objectives were
implied but not explicitly stated in the SAR. These were to assist the government in (i)



2
formulating EL gas sector policy and restructuring the sector's entities to sustain gas
industry growth in India, and (ii) reducing the effect of gas flaring on the environment,
particularly with regard to global warming.
3.    Physical Components and Related Changes.  To meet these objectives, the
project's main components consisted of (a) construction of two new offshore process
platforms in the Bombay High oilfield, one in the northern part to process 60,000 bbl/d of
oil, 7 mmcm/d of associated gas and 90,000 bbl/d of formation water and the other in the
southern part to process 100,000 bbl/d of oil, 15 mmcm/d of associated gas and 140,000
bbl/d of formLation water. The platform construction included two interconnecting gas
pipelines, one being an 18-inch diameter, 30-km pipeline from the northern platformL to
the Uran gas trunk pipeline, and the other a 28-inch diameter, 78-km pipeline from the
southern platform to the South-Bassein gas field, (b) modification and capacity expansion
of 18 existing old process platforms in order to recover associated gas previously flared,
(c) construction of two offshore trunk gas pipelines, one being a 30-inch diameter, 142-
km pipeline from the southern part of the Bombay High oilfield to the Heera-Uran gas
trunk pipeline to supply the Bombay area, and the other a 42-inch diameter, 242-km
pipeline from the South Bassein offshore gasfield to the onshore Hazira gas processing
terminal to supply the northwestern region, (d) expansion of the existing onshore Hazira
gas processing terminal in order to process part of the gas previously flared in the
Bombay High oilfield, as well as the substantial increase in sour gas production from the
South Bassein gasfield, (e) optimization of Bombay High oilfield reservoir management,
(f) development of an appropriate safety and environment safety policy, (g) promotion of
private sector participation, and (h) training and technical assistance.
4.    The irnplementation of the project, including the Hazira gas terminal expansion,
originally was to span four and half years, from mid-1991 to December 1995. However,
due to lengthy negotiations, the co-financing agreement between the Government of India
and J-Exim was not signed until July 1993, two years later than planned. Similarly, the
expansion work on the Hazira gas terminal started during the second part of 1993, two
years later than planned. Since the terminal expansion was essential for processing the
gas to be produced from the project, project completion could not be achieved as
originally planned in 1995, but in 1997, two years later.
5.    Based on a number of independent studies carried out by specialized foreign
firms, the Bombay High oilfield was to produce about 24 mmcm/d of associated gas, of
which about half was committed to supply the Bombay area and the other half to
supplement tlhe South Bassein gasfield's production, which has been dedicated to the
northwestern markets, in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and the Delhi's area,
along the 1,700-km HBJ pipeline. A total of about 40 mmcm/d of gas was committed to
be supplied to the northwestern markets. During the project's first two years, however,
because of a much faster than predicted response from the Bombay High oilfield's
reservoir pressure maintenance program and other field improvement operations, Bombay
High's gas-oil-ratio decreased much more rapidly than projected, resulting in a downward
revision of the field's total gas production. New gas deliverability studies confirmed that



3
no associated gas would be available from Bombay High to the northwestern region
market. The 12 mmcm/d of associated gas supply shortfall had to be compensated by
other sources, essentially of non-associated gas.
6.    To meet the quantities of gas committed to the northwestern region, ONGC had to
(a) bring the production of the South Bassein gasfield to its maximum capacity through
additional development, and (b) initiate the development of the two nearby small gas
structures. Since the gas produced in the South Bassein field contains hydrogen sulfide
(H2S), a toxic gas that requires special treatment, the process capacity of the Hazira gas
terminal, which supplies the northwestern region, had to be increased from 22 to 28
mmcm/d. The terminal expansion program design, therefore, had to be modified.
7.   Implementation of Physical Components. Because of the unforeseen associated
gas production shortfall in the Bombay High oilfield, changes made in the project's scope
caused a delay of about one year in project implementation. However, due to effective
field work organization, ONGC succeeded in making up the delay and commissioned all
of the project's major facilities as per their original schedule, by mid-1995 for the World
Bank financed components and December 1997 for the J-Exim financed components.
Implementation of all of the physical components was carried out satisfactorily. The
construction of the two new offshore process platforms and the rehabilitation and
modernization of 19 existing offshore process platforms, in the Bombay High oilfield,
were completed in May 1994 and June 1995 respectively. The construction of these
platforms, along with some improvements achieved in the field's reservoir management,
allowed ONGC to completely eliminate the flaring of associated gas, which was about 12
mmcm/d at the beginning of the project, in 1990-91 in the Bombay High Oilfield. The
construction of the two main gas pipelines, from the Bombay High oilfield to the Heera-
Uran gas trunk pipeline and from the South Bassin gasfield to Hazira, was completed in
July 1995.
8.    An integrated reservoir management study allowed further understanding of
Bombay High's geology, leading to development of an appropriate reservoir management
policy. New field production and maintenance techniques, such as extended reach
directional drilling and side-tracking of old wells, were successfully introduced. To
deepen the understand of the field's geology and optimize the production operations, a 3-
D seismic survey was initiated during the last year of the project and was still underway
when the project's loan closed in December 1997. The survey is expected to generate
additional field development programs, which will be essential to further sustain the
field's oil and gas production.
9.    Safety and environment was an important focus of the project, embedded in all
project components from the design stage to construction and then operations. Detailed
risk analyses and thorough safety audits were carried out on key offshore facilities by
well known specialized foreign agencies. Since then, ONGC's operational safety
procedures have been upgraded and kept continuously up-to-date. A safety management
system, using international safety ratings recognized the world over by the oil and gas



4
industry, was developed and put into operation. A group of twenty engineers experienced
in various oil and gas activities was specifically trained to operate the system. ONGC's
safety and environment management department, which was based at the company's
headquarters in Dehra Dun, far from the operating areas, was decentralized and relocated
near the operations.  An international consultant carried out an oil spill response
capability study on the basis of which the government decided the construction of two oil
spill response centers with a clean up capacity of 5,000 tons of oil each. The centers were
designed to meet the 1990 UN-sponsored Oil Pollution Response Cooperation Agreement
(OPRCA). Their construction, one for the Bombay offshore area and the other on the
east coast, began in 1996 and is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1998.
10.   Policy and Institutional Components. In addition to eliminating flaring of
associated gas in the Bombay High oilfield and meeting physical production targets, the
project intended to assist the governnent in (a) attracting more private participation in the
oil and gas sector, and (b) developing a gas pricing mechanism, which reflects the real
value of gas. With regard to institutional aspects, the project intended to provide ONGC
with greater operational efficiency by streamlining policies and procedures, divesting
non-core businesses, and improving the management information system and personnel
training.
11.  Imple,nentation of Policy and Institutional Components. Overall implementation
performance of the project's policy and institutional components has been less
satisfactory than that of the physical components. However, significant progress was
made during the last three years of the project in key sector development policies and
sector entity institutional building. In September 1997, the government increased gas
prices, which were due for revision in January 1996. More importantly, the government
decided to dismantle the administered price formula and replace it with a market
determined price mechanism, which will bring transparency in gas prices and help
rationalize gas use nationwide. Gas prices at wellhead for onshore production, and
landfall points for offshore production, were fixed at about 55% of the international FOB
price of a basket of fuel oils. However, the dismantling of the administered prices will be
carried out over a period of four years.
12.   Private petroleum upstream sector participation was significantly encouraged with
new, more liberal, contractual terms, applicable since 1997. The new terms will include
(a) a seven-year tax holiday for exploration and production, (b) no preferential treatment
for national oil and gas companies, (c) no compulsory state participation, (d)
opportunities for wholly owned foreign subsidiaries to own and operate small size oil and
gas fields, (e) for medium to large size fields, permission for foreign companies to have
60% stake in incorporated joint ventures and 51% stake in unincorporated joint ventures,
(f) year-round continual open bidding instead of the previous six-month rounds, and (g)
royalty payments of 12.5% for onshore oil and 10% for gas and offshore oil with further
reduced royalties for deep water exploration. Additional incentives were provided for
exploring higher risk areas that are geologically complex or in deep offshore waters.
Other aspects of new contractual terms include (i) removal of regulations that required



5
foreign investors to join with a local partner, most often the state-owned oil and gas
companies; and (ii) simplification of the administrative procedures by which any investor
had to go through a lengthy multi-layered decision process. The monopoly the state-
owned oil and gas companies had on some of the exploration areas, often the most
prospective ones, was also completely removed. These state-owned companies are no
longer awarded petroleum exploration and development licenses without bidding, but
must compete with private Indian and foreign companies for any licensing.
13.   The government converted ONGC from a government agency to a public limited
company and decided to divest twenty percent of the company's shares. Two percent of
ONGC's shares were distributed to the company's personnel as employee share-holding
and another two percent were sold to Indian financial institutions. The remaining
eighteen percent were offered on the international market, but did not attract any major
buyers. One reason could be that ONGC is still selling its oil and gas at less than
international market prices since the administered price mechanism is not yet completely
dismantled.
14.   The changes made in ONGC's legal status are providing the company with more
autonomy and the opportunity to become commercially focused. Specific actions were
taken by the government to delegate greater powers to ONGC for decision-making in
production management policies, finance and investment operations, project development
and implementation, personnel management, wages and salaries, and any other activity
that would make the company more customer focused. ONGC was exempted from a
number of government approval processes, including submitting projects to the Public
Investment Board for review and clearance.
15.  International consultants provided ONGC with recommendations on corporate
and business restructuring, on the basis of which three pilot projects were initiated in the
Bombay offshore area. The pilot projects were to serve as test sites for specific changes
in managerial and operational procedures. A financial management information system,
consistent with international oil and gas industry standards and practices, was introduced
during the last year of project implementation. The company's procurement procedures
were also reviewed by an international consultant and a number of correctives measures
were introduced.
Achievement of Objectives
16.   Elimination of Gas Flaring Bombay High oilfield's gas flaring, which was 12
mmcm/d in 1990-91, was completely eliminated in 1993-94, a year earlier than originally
anticipated. There will be no more gas flaring in the Bombay High oilfield except for
technical reasons (such as low pressure tail gas recovered within the field's various
production facilities) or in remote marginal sub-units where gas recovery is not
economical. Flaring was first reduced by the closing of selected high gas-oil ratio wells
and then completely eliminated by the project's gas recovery facilities. Besides the
economic benefits, the elimination of gas flaring in the Bombay High oilfield has reduced



6
some 4 mmt per year of carbon dioxide emissions (about 80 mmt over the project's
lifetime) that contribute to greenhouse gases and global warming.
17.  Improvement of Bombay High Oifield Reservoir Management. Management of
Bombay High reservoir was significantly improved. Well productivity increased, and the
field's overall production decline was reduced from about 15% in 1991-92 to about 8% in
1993. Substantial improvements in the field's well rehabilitation program were achieved.
A backlog of more than 100 wells needing repairs at any time was reduced by more than
half.
18.   Reduction of Energy Shortages. The project contributed significantly to the
reduction of energy shortage in India's northwestern region and the Bombay area. Gas
supply to the morthwestern region was increased from about 19 mmcm/d in 1992-93 to 34
mmcm/d in 1997 following the expansion of the Hazira gas terminal and construction of
the pipeline from the South Bassein gasfield to the Hazira terminal. Similarly, gas supply
to the Bombay area was increased from 11.5 mmcm/d in 1991-92 to about 15 mmcm/d in
1995 following the construction of the gas pipeline from the Bombay High oilfield to the
Heera-Uran gas trunk pipeline. The gas supply to the northwestern region is expected to
increase progressively more than 38 mmcm/d in 2001, after which it will decline to about
28 mmcm/d in 2010. The gas supply to the Bombay area will be maintained at 14
mmcm/d until 2002 after which it will decline to 5 mmcm/d in 2010. The project's total
gas contribution to the year 2010 has been estimated at 114 billion cubic meters. In
addition, the project has increased India's oil production by about 4.5 million tons per
year since mid 1994.
19.   Safety and Environment. A number of important corrective measures in safety and
environment were taken.  A  safety and environment engineering capability was
developed and given the necessary resources to effectively interact with the field
technical and operation engineering at all levels. As a result, potential hazards on
offshore facilities were identified and given special focus to ensure that both the
likelihood of failures and the consequences of such failures are minimized. High pressure
gas risers were relocated away from personnel accommodation quarters. ONGC's
capability to search and recover personnel from waters was considerably strengthened by
the provision of fast rescue craft. The company was also given the necessary resources to
build an oil spill response capability commensurate with its activities.
20.   Policy and Institutional Components. The project's progress during the last three
years, in sector development policies and institutional building has led to major reforms
in India's heavily regulated oil and gas sector. The new more liberal petroleum
exploration and development contractual terms have made India's petroleum upstream as
attractive to private participation as that of any other country in Asia. In 1997, Indian and
foreign private companies committed some $1.8 billion to India's upstream oil and gas
sector, and in some cases have already begun producing. In addition, a number of large
oil companies have expressed interest in India's deep water petroleum exploration and
development.



7
21.   By deciding to dismantle the administered price formula and replace it with a
market determined price mechanism over a period of four years (1998-2001) the
government opted for a gradual deregulation to ensure that suitable structures and
systems are in place to minimize jeopardizing the interest of the consumers. During the
transition period, the government intends to (i) make more gas available, probably
through imports, (ii) modify the tariff structure so that the domestic prices are in line with
the international standards, and (iii) form a gas regulatory body with statutory powers to
monitor the functioning of the market. While a transition period is necessary, at least for
the set-up of a regulatory agency, the four-year period would delay the advantages that
would have accrued from a faster deregulation, particularly in the resource mobilization,
that is critical to sector development. However, the 1997 gas price increases allowed
ONGC, the gas producing company, and GAIL, the gas transmission company, to recover
their costs. Because of the gas price increases and the government's decision to support a
total price deregulation, a number of consumers made known their intention to consider
inter-fuel substitution, which would rationalize gas utilization and shift gas sales from
low to high value use.
22.   With regard to institutional achievement, there was a beginning of demarcation of
functions between the government, the various government agencies and the gas sector's
entities. Even though there is still excessive reliance on administrative and political
control, the government decided to restructure the sector entities, particularly ONGC and
GAIL. Commercial terms were initiated and progressively introduced in inter-sector
entity relations, which were still largely governed by administrative orders. Targets for
efficiency, quality and sustainability of outputs were also introduced and added to sector
development plans.
23.   Although the Bank financed physical components were completed as per the
original implementation schedule, the Bank extended the loan's closing date from
December 1995 to December 1997 so the Bank could follow up on the implementation of
the policy and institutional components, supervise implementation of the J-Exim financed
components and coordinate with ADB to ensure that the project reached its objectives.
The Bank also administered the J-Exim loan.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.   There were two factors, both outside the control of ONGC, that affected the
project. The first was the downward revision of the original projection of associated
sweet gas production in the Bombay High oilfield due to an unforeseen development in
field reservoir conditions (much less oil-gas ratio than predicted). This affected the
quantity of committed gas supply and, therefore, had to be compensated by a substantial
increase in non-associated gas production, partly from South Bassein gasfield and partly
from marginal fields. Two marginal fields that were not part of the project had, therefore,
to be developed. Like the South Bassein gasfield, the two marginal fields produce sour
gas requiring a substantial increase in the expansion of the Hazira gas terminal. To



8
maintain its gas delivery schedule for December 1997, ONGC had to carry out most of
the 1997 Hazira gas terminal expansion work using three eight-hour working shifts per
day. The second factor was the review, as required by existing Indian regulations, of the
oil spill response equipment and facility specifications by the Indian Coast Guard. The
review process resulted in lengthy discussions that delayed the implementation of the
safety and environment component by almost a year.
25.   On the sector policy side, despite the new well defined regulations, the
negotiation process for private petroleum upstream participation remained somewhat
cumbersome and time consuming. Because of the lengthy negotiation process, the
private sector in general, and the international oil companies in particular, still have the
perception thaLt it is difficult for them to work in India. Current sector planning does not
provide potential investors with reliable estimates of gas demand, on the basis of which
the required irnvestment would be defined.
26.   An issue that impeded the project's sector policy and institutional development
objectives was the growing deficit of the oil pool account. The pool account was created
in the 1970s as a government account to compensate for the differences between
international prices and subsidized domestic prices. Until the late 1980s, the oil pool
account was operated satisfactorily, even generating some surplus that was used against
international 1price fluctuations. Since then, however, due to (i) decline in domestic oil
production, (ii) high demand growth with a subsequent increase in imports, (iii) increase
in subsidy, and (iv) depreciation of the Rupee, the oil pool account generated a large
deficit that kept increasing, reaching some Rs.190 billion ($5 billion) as of end-1997.
The deficit hampered the financial performance of oil and gas companies, in both up and
downstream. Most of the companies have to maintain high debt:equity ratios since they
have to use initernational capital markets to meet the foreign exchange requirements for
their development projects. India's largest refining company, Indian Oil Corporation
(IOC), almost reached its external borrowing limit of $3.5 billion to finance crude oil and
product imports.  Without the recent price increase and removal of subsidies on
petroleum products, IOC would have been without financing by November 1997. The
pool account deficit also slowed restructuring of the gas sector's entities, particularly with
regard to disinvestment.
Project Sustainability
27.   The elimination of gas flaring in the Bombay High oilfield and the environmental
benefits derived from it, will be fully sustainable throughout the remaining life of the
project. Even if the field's oil and gas production were to increase substantially, the
project has provided a gas recovery capacity large enough to ensure that there will be no
more flaring. Enough gas reserves were proven and developed to ensure that the level of
supply for the northwestern region and the Bombay area will be sustained at least through
2010. The government's decision to dismantle the administered price formula and
replace it by a market determined price mechanism will lead to further consolidation of
the policy and institutional achievements made during the last three years of the project.



9
With regard to the private sector's participation, while the new contractual terms for
petroleum exploration and development and the government's move toward market
defined gas pricing and allocation should make India more attractive, the long-term
sustainability of the private sector's involvement will depend on the results of petroleum
exploration and development activities now underway.
Bank Performance
28.   The project's preparation, appraisal and negotiations were carried  out
expeditiously, over a period of six months compared to one to one and half years for the
previous petroleum projects. The Bank's performance in assisting the Borrower to
identify, prepare and appraise the project was highly satisfactory. The SAR was
thorough, with considerable attention to linking sector strategy to the various project
components. It also took sufficient account of factors to minimize risks that could
impede the achievement of the project's objectives. A matrix of policy issues was jointly
prepared by the Bank and the Borrower, with actions to be taken clearly defined. Bank
staff made considerable efforts to coordinate appraisal of ADB and J-Exim financed
components.
29.   During project implementation, the Bank's performance was also highly
satisfactory. Bank staff advised and assisted ONGC in its efforts to implement the
project and the successful resolution of the gas shortage problem owes much to their
close collaboration and concerted efforts. In 1993-94, when Bombay High's associated
gas production was revised downward, it was difficult for ONGC to develop additional
gas reserves while prevailing gas prices did not permit recovery of production costs. To
ensure that the project meets the committed gas supply, the Bank has urged the
government to take all necessary actions to implement the gas pricing policy agreed
under the project. Most of these actions are included in the project's future operations
plan.
Borrower Performance
30.   ONGC's performance during project preparation, appraisal and negotiations was
highly satisfactory, particularly in its assessment of the technical, financial, institutional
and environmental requirements of the project. Its commitment to the project cannot be
underestimated since it had already initiated most of engineering studies related to the gas
recovery facilities. While it became evident during project implementation that the
Bombay High's associated gas production projection could not be met, it also became
clear that the problem stemmed from the field's geological complexity, and, therefore,
could not have been predicted during project preparation.
31.   During  project implementation, ONGC's performance  was also  highly
satisfactory. Procurement problems, which had delayed most of the previous petroleum
projects, were identified during tender preparation and timely corrected. As a result, the
GFRP is the first petroleum project with which we had no procurement problem. To



10
make up the delays caused by the need to develop additional gas reserves and increase
expansion work on the Hazira gas processing terminal, ONGC successfully carried out
most of the Hazira terminal's work program round-the-clock, through three eight-hour
shifts per day. ONGC also complied with all of its covenants.
32.   The performance of the government, however, was not fully satisfactory, because
of (a) interference in project management and decision making, and (b) a 3-year delay in
complying with the covenants in the Loan Agreement related to sector policy, particularly
gas allocation and regular reporting on gas development planning. The government's
policy objectives and related actions were well conceived and spelled out. However,
implementation of the policy actions was delayed by almost three years, and most of the
announced targelt dates experienced slippages.
Assessment of Outcome
33.   The overall outcome of the project, particularly with regard to the physical
components, was satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its major physical
objectives and is likely to maintain satisfactory results. The gas supply derived from the
project helped GAIL to alleviate the country's energy shortage and allowed it to operate
the 1,700-km HBJ pipeline at near capacity. The project has also considerably improved
the environment of the Bombay and Delhi areas through increased gas consumption. In
addition, following the sector policy and institutional development measures taken by the
government since 1996, the project proved to be instrumental in fostering the
development of natural gas in India. However, because of existing gas consumer price
distortions, the ]:ndian gas market continued to develop more slowly than projected in
spite of the huge demand potential. The government's decision to phase out these
distortions over a period of four years has slowed diversion of gas to high-value
consumption to achieve the more economic allocation of resources intended by one of the
project's policy objectives.
34.   While the project contributed to the reduction of India's energy shortage, the
country's huge energy demand is far from being met. Given the level of oil and gas
reserves and the large part of the proved gas reserves that consist of Bombay High's gas
cap gas (which cannot be produced until the field is completely depleted), India's energy
deficit will continue to increase. To avoid jeopardizing its economic growth, India will
continue to import crude oil and petroleum products.  However, based on cost
comparison, natural gas -- whether landed as pipelined gas or as LNG -- is expected to
compete with miost of the products being imported, such as kerosene and LPG in the
domestic and commercial sector, naphtha in existing fertilizer production, fuel oil and
diesel in combined cycle power generation, and coal in non-pithead base-load power
generation. Further market analysis, particularly with regard to demand pattern and
geographical demand location, needs to be undertaken.



11
Future Operation
35.   To deliver the gas quantities committed to the northwestern region under the
project, ONGC agreed to complete the development program initiated during the
project's implementation for the South Bassein gasfield and the B-55 gas structure. The
program consists of the following dated actions: (a) in South Bassein, ONGC will (i)
complete in 1998 the interpretation of the 3-D seismic survey data acquired in 1997, (ii)
make in 1998 a new field resernoir map incorporating the 3-D seismic data with the
objective of assessing the possibility of additional development, including infill drilling,
and (iii) implement as scheduled for completion in the year 2002 the gas compression
program (US$360 million), which was to be initiated in 1998; and (b) in the B-55
structure, complete in 1998 the construction and installation of the 12-well platform and
the drilling of 12 production wells (US$106 million).
36.   On sector policy and institutional development, the government decided in 1997
to rationalize the gas prices and allocations by dismantling progressively over a four-year
period the administered gas pricing and allocation mechanism and replacing it with a
market determined formula.  By the year 2001, gas prices would be completely
deregulated. Because of the new contractual incentives in petroleum exploration and
development private participation, foreign and local companies are already producing
some 4 mmcm/d of gas and 20,000 bbls/d of oil. The level of oil and gas production by
the private sector is expected to double by the year 2000. Studies were initiated before
the loan's closing date and are underway to restructure the sector entities into commercial
companies with the objective of making them competitive with the private sector. GOI
has taken the necessary measures to complete the restructuring of the sector's entities by
the year 2000.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   The key lessons learned are the following:
*  Eliminating gas flaring was highly beneficial to the country's energy supply even if
undertaken late in the field's production life. The project would have yielded even
higher benefits if it had been undertaken earlier, during the second part of the 1980s,
when gas flaring in the Bombay High oilfield became significant. The experience
gained in the Bombay High oilfield ought to be extended to Assam, where substantial
quantities of associated natural are still flared.
*  Contracting specialized field service companies to perform some of the key field
maintenance operations, particularly in areas where the borrower does not have a
comparative technical advantage, can improve both the quality of operations and their
cost effectiveness. Similarly, using modern field technologies, such as 3-D seismic



12
survey, horizontal drilling and "side tracking" old wells, can greatly enhance field
productivity.
*  Delaying co-financing agreements, even though co-financing is advantageous to both
the Borrower and the Bank, can affect the project's economic viability and constrain
project implementation performance.
l  Using technical assistance for onsite managerial and operational expertise can be
extremely beneficial to project performance. Technical assistance helped ONGC
streamline its procurement procedures and its management and financial information
systems and improve its operational performance, especially in the area of complex
reservoir geo:logy. Technical assistance also helped ONGC make up one year delay
experienced in the Hazira gas terminal expansion work program.
e  Developing safety and environmental protection legislation and setting up an
independent agency to enforce it, particularly for offshore activities, can facilitate
development of offshore oil and gas reserves. Self regulation, as has been done so far
by ONGC, has its limitations and could lead to serious problems, particularly since
the sector has been opened to private participation.
e  Gas price distortions, even if they are being phased out, divert gas from high-value
consumption and, therefore, from achieving a more economic allocation of resources.
As a resuit, as long as these distortions still exist, the gas sector would not develop as
it should.
*  Achieving policy objectives should be viewed as a long-term process. In this regard,
regular consultations between GOI and the Bank could have (i) helped the
govemment understand better the Bank's viewpoint on sector policy development and
helped implernent its policy actions with fewer delays than actually happened; and (ii)
enhanced the Bank's perception of the sector's imperatives.  Sector policy and
institutional development components should be rigorously analyzed, focusing --
especially in the case of India -- on (i) the government's micromanagement of the
sector, (ii) the organizational inertia of the sector entities, and (iii) the lack of
coordination between the various energy entities, such as ONGC, GAIL and the
National Thermal Power Company (NTPC).
* Restructuring the sector entities requires a clear commitment from the government to
transform them into commercial companies with complete operational and financial
autonomy, so they can operate on market principles. The companies should be free
from government supervision and micromanagement (currently sector entity
management spends more than one third of its time responding to issues raised by
various government officials, including Parliament members and other government
committee members). The companies should operate on commercial principles and



13
be responsive to the market's needs, particularly the consumers', while the
government's ownership can be controlled through independent yearly audits.
* Achieving institutional development objectives also requires the setting up of a gas
regulatory agency to promote gas sector development, regulate the gas transmission
activity -- which is a natural monopoly -- and protect the consumers. To regulate the
gas transmission activity, existing major pipelines -- such as the HBJ pipeline --
should be converted into common carriers, just like the power grid.
* Improving the legal and fiscal framework to promote private sector participation in
petroleum exploration and development may not be enough. The negotiation process
also needs to be streamlined.



14
Part II - Statistical Tables
A. Achievements of Objectives      Substantial     Partial      Negligible        Not
Applicab!e
Macroeconomic Policies             *              L             LI              LI
Sector Policies                    L              *             L               L
Financial Objectives               *               I             I              0L
Institutional Objectives           *                            L               Li
Physical Objectives                *              L             L               0
Poverty Reduction                   l             El            L 
Gender Concerns                     I             L             LI              E
Other Social Objectives            LI             L             L 
Public Sector Management           *                            L               Fl
Private Sector Development          *                           FL              FL
Environmental Objectives            *             3L                            II
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                    Unlikely         Uncertain
*                           OL              OI
C. Bank Performance                  Highly                   Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                      U                           LI              oL
Appraisal                          *                            LI              Fl
Supervision                        *                             I              FL
D. Overall Borrower
Performance
Preparation                        *                            O
Implementation                     *                            O               O
Covenant Compliance                LI                                           E l
Operation                          *                            O               L:
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
* Sorc:Lansaf               LI              L I
Source: Bank staff estimates.



15
Tabl 2:  elafd Bak Lons/redits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose            Approval     Status
Preceding Operations
1. First Bombay High Offshore        Development of Bombay         1977    Completed
Development Project                High Oilfield
(LN 1473-IN)
2. Second Bombay High Offshore       Development of Bombay         1981    Completed
Development Project                High Oilfield
(LN 1925-IN)
3. Krishna-Godavari Petroleum        Exploration and appraisal      1983    Completed
Exploration Project                of petroleum accumulations
(LN 2205-IN)                       in selected areas
4. South Bassein Gas Development     Development of South          1983    Completed
Project                            Bassein Gasfield
(LN 2241-IN)
5. Cambay Basin Petroleum Project    Development of the Cambay     1984    Completed
(LN 2403-IN)                       Basin Petroleum Reserves
6. Western Gas Development Project   Development of gas            1988    Completed
(LN 2904-IN)                       infrastructure in Gujarat State
7. Petroleum Transport Project       Construction of petroleum     1989    Partially
(LN 3364-IN)                       product pipeline                       Canceled
and
Completed
Following Operations.
8. Oil and Gas Development Loan      Financing Crude Oil Imports   1991    Completed
(LN 3391-IN)
Source: Bank Records



16
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned                   Actual Date
Identification                              NR                           3/20/91
Appraisal                                   NR                            5/31/91
Negotiations                                NR                           6/1-5/91
Board Presentation                          NR                            6/25/91
Signing                                     NR                           7/11/91
Effectiveness                               NR                           7/12/91
Project completion                        6/30/95                        12/31/97
Loan closing                              12/31/95                       12/31/97
NR = Not Reported
Source: Project files
FY92    FY93       FY94      FY95       FY96       FY97      FY98
Appraisal Estimate    111.1    139.4      135.0      61.0      3.5
Actual                90.0    125.6       189.8     15.6       0.0       6.5        22.7
Actual as % of Estijmate  81    90        141       26.0       0.0       ---        ---
Date of Final Disbursement: March 3, 1998
Source: Bank Loan Department
Key Implementation                  Estimated                        Actual
Indicators
1. Elimination of gas flaring in          By 1995                          1995
Bombay High Oilfield
2. Sale of gas to GAIL at Uran              1995               1995 for Uran terminal and 1997



17
and Hazira gas terminals                                         for Hazira terminal
The SAR had no provision for implementation indicators.
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
I. Key project operations                         Key Indicators
Investment Operation
1) South Bassein 3-D Seismic Coverage        1) Seismic Coverage to be Completed in 1998
2) South Bassein New Reservoir Map           2) Reservoir Map to be Completed in 1998
3) South Bassein Gas Compression             3) Gas Compression to be Completed in 2002
4) B-55 Structure Development                4) B-55 Development to be Completed in 1998
Sector Policy & Institutional Development
5) Gas Pricing Deregulation                  5) Pricing Deregulation to be Completed in 2001
6) Commercialization of Sector Entities      6) Commercialization to be Completed in 2000
7) Private Sector Participation              7) Private Sector to Double its Production in 2000
Source: Project Files
E_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _       ~      ;  $   .    '   .0 X  t.,
Studies          Purpose as defined at         Status           Impact of Study
appraisal
Assessment of ONGC's  Not included in SAR      Completed            Helped ONGC to define
Oil Spill Response                                                  its requirements
Capability
Bombay High Reservoir Improve Bombay High      Completed            Helped to substantially
Management             Oilfield Management                          reduce the field's
production decline and
improve productivity
Development of        Not included in SAR      Completed            Used to address Bombay
marginal fields                                                     High associated gas
production shortfall
Review of Procurement  Improve Project         Completed            Used to avoid
Procedures             Procurement                                  procurement problems
experienced in previous
projects



18
Source: Project Files.
Appraisal   Estimate                       Actual
Local      Foreign                 Local       Foreign
Project Components      Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
Process platform, NQP      50.2       209.0       259.2        0.0        305.5       305.5
| ompressors, SHG          30.0       125.0       155.0        0.0        246.1       246.1
Processplatform,SHG        55.2       230.0       285.2        0.0        401.8       401.8
I Linepipe, SHG-BPB         17.4        58.0        75.4       29.1         0.0         29.1
1 Laying, coating and       6.1         15.7        21.8        8.2         0.0         8.2
1 wTapping, SHG-BPB
I Platformmodifications     15.2        63.3       78.5         31.6        72.3       103.9
Linepipe, ICP-Heera       21.0         70.0       91.0         19.7       32.0        51.7
Laying, coating and        23.3        97.0       120.3        0.0        71.6        71.6
wrapping, BPB-Heera
Linepipe, BPB-Hazira      66.0        220.0       286.0        5.2        132.4       137.6
Laying, coating and       31.0        129.3       160.3        0.0        277.7       277.7
wrapping, BPB-Hazira
ExpansionHaziragas        217.8       275.3       493.1       103.4       61.2        164.6
terminal
Reservoir management,     61.7        67.4        129.1        0.0        86.3         86.3
services and equipment
Engineering and project   22.5         7.5        30.0         0.0         1.0         1.0
management
Studies and training       0.6         2.0         2.6         0.1         0.6         0.7
I Environmental component   9.8         14.7       24.5         0.0         14.0        14.0
Be Well Platform*                                              0.0        65.9        65.9
Drilling of 9 wells in                                        20.7         14.3       35.0
f South Bassein*
Base Cost (1991 prices)   627.8      1,584.2     2,212.0      218.0      1,782.7     2,000.7
Physical contingencies.   62.8        158.4       221.2        0.0         0.0         0.0
Price contingencies       205.8       239.5       445.3        0.0         0.0         0.0
Total project cost        896.4      1,982.1     2,878.5      218.0      1,782.7     2,000.7
interest during           101.8       204.1       305.9        0.0        98.2        98.2
I construction
Grand Total               998.2      2,186.2     3,184.4      218.0      1,880.9     2,098.9
*Not Included in Appraisal
Source: SAR and ONGC Finance Department



19
N      -   TRbk Wm                  m       ; .f6ef%acn WS$mnO    7 = 
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Local      Foreign                  Local       Foreign
Source of Financing      Costs       Costs        Total       Costs       Costs        Total
World Bank                   0.0        450.0       450.0        72.3        377.7        450.0
Asian Development Bank       0.0        300.0        300.0        14.4       226.6        241.0
Export-Import Bank of        0.0        350.0        350.0        0.0         55.1        55.1
Japan
Export/supplier credits      0.0        745.6        745.6        0.0        574.3        574.3
ONGC                        998.1       340.6       1,388.7      131.3       647.2        778.5
Total                       998.1      2,186.2      3,184.3      218.0       1880.9      2,098.9
Source: SAR and ONGC Finance Department
SAR                        ICR Re-estimate
Production
Gas (bom)                                     64.0                             114.0
Oil (mmt)                                     60.0                              79.0
Net Benefits (US$ billion)                     13.2                             14.5
Major Costs                        (Gas at Rs. 1,500/1,000 cm & oil at    (Gas at Rs. 2,150 in 97, Rs. 2,540 in 98,
$20/bbl)              Rs. 2,930 in 99, Rs. 3,320 in 2000 &   p
Rs. 3,900 in 2001 onward. Total gas
financial valuea for ONGC $1 1.3 billion,
Oil at $12/bbl = $6.9 billion)
Capital Costs ($ million)                    1,985.3                          1,505.1
Operating Costs ($ million)                   661.9                             667.9
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                                    41.7
- Natural Gas + Associated Oil                                                  48
- Natural Gas                                 30.3                              26
Source: Project Files
Statement number and title          | Describe and cornment on lack of complianlce
There has been no lack of compliance with applicable Bank Policies and Procedures.
Source: Project Files



Revised
Agreement - Section        Type   Status   Date          date       Description of Covenant
Guarantee Agreement
GA 3.01                    02      C                                GOI to implement a market based gas pricing policy.
GA 3.02                    05      CP                               GOI to establish an agency to monitor oil and gas field development.
G-A 3.03                   09      Ip        06,/30/92              GO0 to repoit on gas allocation
GA 3.04                    13      C                                GOI to sign a guarantee fee with ONGC.
Loan Agreement
LA 2.02 (b)                13      C         12/31/92               ONGC to open a Special Account.
LA 3.03                    06      C         03/31/92               ONGC to carry out a safety and environment audit.
LA 4.03                    13      C                                ONGC to take out and maintain insurance.
LA 4.04                    02      C                                ONGC to contract a financial advisor.
LA 4.05                    05      C                                ONGC to establish a Project Implementation Unit
LA 4.06                    05      C         12/31/91               ONGC to review its procurement procedures.
LA 5.01 (b) (ii)           01      C         12/31/92               Audited annual accounts.
LA 5.02                    01      C         12/31/92               Debt service coverage ratio.
LA 5.03 (a)                01      C         12/31/92               Yearly financial forecast.
LA 5.04                    02      C         03/31/94               ONGC exchanging views with the Bank.
SAR Agreement
SAR 3.08                   05      C                                GOI to promote private petroleum exploration and development.
SAR 4.13                   06      C                                ONGC to comply with safety and environment regulations.
Covenant types:                                                              Present status:
I =  Accounts/Audits                  8 =  Indigenous People                 C  =  covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue    9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD =  complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 =  Project implementation not       CP =  complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1-9        NC =  not complied with
funds                           11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4  =  Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency     12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 =  Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 =  Involuntary resettlement         13 =  other



21
Stage of                Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle        Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$
Through appraisal       NR          NR           NR          NR         103.3       259.3
Board-effectiveness      NR          NR          NR           NR         29.9         75.8
Supervision          NR           NR          NR          NR         214.0        775.6
Completion           NR           NR          NR          NR          9.0         38.7
Total              NR          NR          NR          NR          3 356.2     1149.4
NR = Not Reported
Source: Bank MIS
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/  Number of  Days in    Specialized Staff   Implementation  Development
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field      Skills Represented       Status        Impact
Through      10/90       3          10         TM, G, PE             NA              NA
Appraisal     2/91        5         8       TM, G,PE, PR, EC          NA             NA
4/91        6         10     TM, PE, EC, FA, PR,        NA             NA
EN
Supervision    2/92        4         12        TM, PE, EC, G            S              S
12/92       3          8         TM, PE, PR              S              S
6/93        2         10           TM, G                 S              S
10/93       4         10       TM, PE, PC, PR            S              S
11/94       2          7           PE, PC                S              S
3/95        3         7          PE, PC, PR              S              S
10/95       4         10         TM, PR, PC              S              S
6/96        2         10           TM, EC                S              S
2/97        2         10           TM, PC                S              S
12/97       2         10           TM, PC                S              S
Special Staff Skills:
TM  Task Manager                EC  Economist                    PE   Petroleum Engineer
G   Geologist                   EN  Environment Specialist       FA   Financial Analyst
PR  Procurement Specialist      PC  Process Engineer
Performance Rating: S - Satisfactory
Source: Project Files



22
Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
Project Future Operation
PROJECT OPERATIONS AND CURRENT ARRANGEMENTS
Gas Production. To deliver the gas quantities committed to the northwestern region
under the project, ONGC agreed to complete the development program initiated during
the project's ilmplementation for the South Bassein gasfield and B-55 gas structure. The
program consist of the following dated actions:
For South Bassein:
(i) A 3-D seismic survey (900 sq.km.- 29,000 l.km) was carried out in 1997, for which
the data acquired was still being processed on December 1997. ONGC agreed to
complete the seismic date processing and interpretation in 1998.
(ii) A new field reservoir map incorporating the 3-D seismic data will be completed in
1998 with the objective of assessing the possibility of additional development,
including infill drilling.
(iii) the gas compression program (US$360 million), which was to be initiated in 1998
will be implemented as scheduled in order to be completed by the year 2002.
For B-55 Structure:
Construction and installation of a 12-well program with the drilling of 12 production
wells (US$1065 million) to be completed in 1999.
Sector Policy and Institutional Development. In September 1997, GOI increased the gas
prices from an average of Rs2,150/1,000 m3 to Rs2,850/1,000 m3 (55% of international
FOB price of a basket of fuel oils) excluding royalty, taxes and transmission charges.



23
Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
GOI's new pricing decision provides for another price adjustment by September 1999,
bringing the gas price to 75% international FOB price. Although not explicitly stated,
GOI's recent price increase has been formulated with the objective to dismantle the
administered pricing formula and replace it with a market determined pricing mechanism
over a 4-year period, as follows:
1998: increase the gas price from 55% to 65% of international FOB price
of a basket of fuel oils.
1999: increase the gas price from 65% to 75% of international FOB price of a
basket of fuel oils.
2000: increase the gas price from 75% to 85% of international FOB price of a
basket of fuel oils.
2001: increase the gas price from 85% to 100% of international FOB price of a
basket of fuel oils.
The price increases would be implemented quarterly.



24
Appendix B
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3364-IN)
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
(Original Provided by ONGC)
1.   INTRODUCTION
Bombay High oil field is India's largest source of oil and associated field. In the 1980's
it produced oil at the rate of about 20 MMTPA and associated gas at the rate of about 25-
30 MMSCM]D. The significant increase in oil production from Bombay High field in the
1980's without a corresponding increase in development of gas trunk pipeline
infrastructure led to flaring of about one third of gas produced from the reservoir. The
increase in gas production was a combined result of higher oil production; an inadequate
evacuation network and some reservoir related problems. In the late 1980's Oil and
Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. decided to implement a program that would further increase
oil and gas production from Bombay High field and simultaneously eliminate the flaring
of gas. Under this program ONGC envisaged additional oil production from L-[II
reservoir in BH South through in-fill drilling. The program also included similar
investment to develop the L-II reservoir in Bombay High North. These projects
envisaged the drilling of production and water injection wells, installing new well head
platforms, process platforms and intra-field pipelines etc. The gas flaring reduction
component of the project included facilities for Bombay High primarily required for
recovery and transmission of gas that would otherwise have been flared. The basic
design and sizing of the oil/gas production and recovery facilities of the project were
carried out Engineers India Ltd. (EIL).
The project consisted of the following components:
i)    Drilling of 78 wells (production and water injection) in L-III reservoir of BH
South through eight well head platforms with intra-field oil, water injection and
gas lift pipelines.
ii)   Construction of a process platform SHG in BH South with processing capacity of
100,000 BOPD, 5 MMSCMD of gas compression/dehydration and handling of
140,000 BWPD of produced water.



25
Appendix B
Page 2 of 12
iii)   A 78 Kms pipeline of 28" diameter from SHG platform in Bombay High South to
BPB platform in South Bassein to evacuate surplus BH gas to Hazira through
South Bassein field.
iv)   Drilling of 42 wells (production and water injection) in L-II reservoir of BH North
through five well head platforms with intra-field oil, water injection and gas lift
pipelines.
v)    Construction of a process platform NQP in BH North with processing capacity of
60,000 BOPD, 6.8 MMSCMD of gas compression/dehydration and handling of
90,000 BWPD of produced water.
vi)   Laying of an 18" diameter x 30 Kms long pipeline from NQ complex in BH North
to lateral point on BH-Uran gas trunk pipeline for evacuation of additional gas.
vii)   Modification of existing platforms in Bombay High North and Bombay High
South to handle and process changed well fluid quantities and compositions.
viii)  Construction of a 30" diameter x 142 Kms long gas trunk pipeline from existing
ICP process platform in BH South to Heera process complex for its onward
linkage to Heera-Uran pipeline. This was also required to ensure availability of
16 MMSCMD of gas at URAN.
ix)   Construction of a 42" diameter x 242 Kms long gas trunk pipeline from existing
BPB process platform in South Bassein field to Hazira for evacuation of up to 30
MMSCMD of sour gas.
x)    Installation of a nine slot well head platform in South Bassein Field to produce 5
MMSCMD of gas.
xi)   Upgrading the gas handling and processing facilities at BPA and BPB process
platforms in South Bassein field to process up to 12.5 MMSCMD gas at each
complex.
xii)   Expansion of Hazira Gas Processing Complex to receive and process additional 5
MMSCMD of sour gas and 16 MMSCMD of sweet gas.
xiii)  Engineering project management and other implementation services.
xiv)  Implementation of package measures in Bombay High field for proper reservoir
management practices.



26
Appendix B
Page 3 of 12
xv)   Reservoir performance and management studies.
xvi)  Training of ONGC engineers and scientists in different aspects of oil industry
practices.
xvii)  Implementation of a package of measures to reduce the environmental risks and to
enhance the safety of offshore operations.
2.    OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
The main objectives of the project were as follows:
a)   to eliminate the flaring of associated gas in the Bombay High field to improve the
management of the reservoir in order to arrest the decline of oil production and
optimize recovery of hydrocarbons.
b)   to reduce energy shortages and improve efficiency of energy use in India's
Westem Region.
c)   to enable additional gas supply from the South Bassein field and other
surrounding satellite fields to be brought ashore.
d)   to bring a gas supply to displace liquid petroleum products used by industries to
help reduce costly oil imports and to substitute coal used for power generation so
as to improve the environment and increase the efficiency of energy.
e)   to promote a greater involvement of the private sector in oil and gas industry in
India.
3.    FUND REQUIREMENT OF GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.. has requested the World Bank to consider
providing assistance for its Gas Flaring Reduction Project to avoid flaring of gas from
Bombay high field and also to supplement its gas evacuation network in the Western
Offshore Region. Details of the project along-with copies of the relevant feasibility
reports were submitted to the World Bank in early 1991. The World Bank's fact finding
Mission visited India in early 1991 and submitted a Staff Appraisal Report in May 1991
based on whiclh the World Bank approved a loan of US$ 450 Million for funding the Gas
Flaring Reduction Project (GFRP). Since, the total fund requirement for the Gas Flaring
Reduction Project was more than US$ 450 Million, the World Bank agreed to arrange
part of the remaining funding through Asian Development Bank and Japan Export Import



27
Appendix B
Page 4 of 12
Bank. ONGC has separately negotiated a loan of US$ 300 Million to fully fund the
construction of a 42" dia x 242 Kms long Second Bassein Hazira gas trunk pipeline and
to partly finance the construction of ICP-Heera gas trunk pipeline. In addition ONGC has
negotiated a loan of US$ 55.1 Million from the Export/Import Bank of Japan and availed
supplier's credit of US$ 574.27 Million for financing various other components of the
project. The balance foreign exchange requirement and local currency requirement for
the project was met by ONGC from its internal resources.
4.    REVISION IN THE SCOPE OF PROJECT
During the first two years of project implementation, following recommendations of a
Bombay High Review Committee set up by the government, ONGC had to (i) cut down
on production through closure of high GOR wells; and (ii) increase water injection into
the field's reservoir. As a result, the Long Term Oil and Gas Profiles for Western
Offshore Region were recast. These were made in the form of Long Term Gas Profiles
1993. From these profiles it was observed that gas production from the Bombay High
field had declined by about 8 MMSCMD as a result of implementing BHRC
recommendations. This affected the availability of surplus Bombay High gas for
diversion towards Hazira as most of the gas produced from Bombay High was required
for meeting the Uran and internal gas consumption at Offshore. In order to meet gas
supply commitments at Hazira also, ONGC decided to increase gas production from the
South Bassein field by 5 MMSCMD and at the same time considered advancing the free
gas production from satellite and marginal fields. Since South Bassein gas and gas from
most of the marginal and satellite fields are sour, creation of additional gas sweetening
facilities at Hazira and drilling of additional free gas wells in the South Bassein field were
required.
The inclusion of additional work under the Gas Flaring Reduction Project shifted its
completion schedule to the third quarter of 1997.
The additional facilities identified under the Gas Flaring Reduction Project were as
follows:
i)    Drilling of 4 additional wells in South Bassein field to sustain 30 MMSCMD of
free gas.
ii)    Upgrading gas handling and processing facilities at BPA and BPB process
complexes in South Bassein Field to process 15 MMSCMD gas at each
complex.



28
Appendix B
Page 5 of 12
iii)  Installation of two additional gas sweetening trains of 6.5 MMSCMD each at
Hazira to sweeten a total of 41 MMSCMD gas.
5.    ACH[EVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
As indicated above, the main objectives of the project were:
a)   to elirninate the flaring of associated gas in the Bombay High field.
b)   to improve Bombay High oil field reservoir management in order to arrest the
decline of production and optimize the ultimate recovery of hydrocarbon.
c)   to reduce energy shortages.
d)   to promote involvement of the private sector in oil and gas industry in India.
e)   to develop environmental and safety standards consistent with the international oil
indust:ry.
f)   to implement an adequate gas pricing policy.
The point-wise achievement of Gas Flaring Reduction Project's objective is as follows:
Elimination of Gas Flaring in Bombay High
All the facilities envisaged for the project under the World Bank loan have been
completed w'ithin the schedules indicated except for a delay of about 12 months in the
completion of the Bombay High Modification Project. However, the delay in completion
of this component of the project did not affect ONGC's oil and gas production as most of
the balance works were not critical since they pertained to the handling of additional
liquid/well fluid expected to be produced during the later stages of field operation. There
was some delay in the completion of the ICP-Heera gas trunk pipeline (May 1995 as
against Mar 1994) and Second Bassein Hazira gas trunk pipeline (Jan 1996 as against
Dec 1994) compared to the schedules indicated in the SAR. However, the delay in the
completion of the ICP-Heera pipeline did not affect the gas supply at Uran as the shortfall
in availability was met from higher than expected gas production from Neelam and
Heera.
ONGC did not let the delay in completion of the Second Bassein Hazira Gas trunk
pipeline affect its gas supply commitments to Hazira. The gas supply commitments were
met partly by diverting additional sweet gas from Bombay high and partly by operating



29
Appendix B
Page 6 of 12
the existing Bassein Hazira gas trunk pipeline at lower arrival pressure to push more
offshore gas to Hazira. As a result of completing the Gas Flaring Reduction Project,
ONGC has eliminated the flaring of associated gas from Bombay High, which at one time
had reached about 12 MMSCMD in late 1980's. The only gas being flared offshore now
is technical flaring which is required to maintain some purge in the flare stacks or which
is very low pressure tail gas from the system whose recovery is not economical. The
reduction in gas flaring was achieved initially with the shutting down of high GOR wells
as per BHRC recommendations and subsequent availability of gas compression and
evacuation facilities created under the project. The Gas Flaring Reduction Project has
eliminated the flaring of gas, which has not only provided economic benefits to ONGC
but has also resulted in reduced carbon di-oxide emissions.
Improvement of Bombay High Reservoir Management
Under the project ONGC had allocated a very significant component of the loan towards
Bombay High Reservoir studies and management. This has resulted in significant
improvement of reservoir management. The major works undertaken were:
- detailed reservoir management study through an independent consultant.
*  procurement of software packages and a work station to improve ONGC's
capabilities for reservoir study.
3  procurement of sub-surface gauges to study reservoir pressures.
e  hiring of services to take up drilling of side tracked wells.
In addition ONGC has taken up work on reservoir pressure maintenance through re-
distribution of injection water in the reservoir.  Reservoir pressure maintenance
operations initiated from 1992 onwards, particularly the water injection program
combined with the additional development of L-III and L-II reservoirs and actions taken
in conjunction with an integrated reservoir management study, enabled ONGC to arrest
the production decline from about 15% per year to about 8% per year from 1993
onwards. The availability of additional wells under L-II and L-III Projects increased
ONGC's oil production from Bombay High field by about 3 MMTPA. The production of
associated gas has also been optimized to ensure efficient oil recovery.



30
Appendix B
Page 7 of 12
Reduction in Energy Shortages
Construction of the two main gas pipelines from Bombay High field to Heera and from
South Bassein field to Hazira along with expansion of Hazira Gas Terminal is allowinlg
ONGC to supply about 16 MMSCMD of gas to the Bombay area through Uran and about
35 MMSCMD of gas from South Bassein and Tapti/Panna fields to the area along HBJ
pipeline, which stretches from Hazira in Gujarat state to New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.
Although India's gas demand remains huge, this new delivery capacity is a significant
contribution to reducing the energy shortages and improving the overall environmental
protection. The project's facilities will also have an important impact on the pace of
India's gas development program and will substantially increase the present 8% share of
natural gas in the country's primary energy consumption.
Promoting Private Sector Participation In Oil/Gas Sector
Since the opening up of the country's economy in 1991 to foreign and domestic private
sectors in the petroleum upstream sector, the Government has held many rounds of
exploration and development bidding offering both offshore and onshore blocks/fields. A
number of snmall to medium sized undeveloped oil and gas fields were offered to the
private sector for development with or without the participation of national oil
companies. The results are quite encouraging as a number of undeveloped oil and gas
fields have been put in operation. Government has also stopped preferential allotment of
exploration blocks to national oil companies. The national oil companies are now
required to submit bids for exploration blocks along with private companies.
Development Of Environment And Safety Standards
In the absence of a regulatory body specifically for monitoring offshore operations,
ONGC was thus far self regulated in Safety and Environment Management. ONGC has a
very good record with safety and the environment. ONGC has an oil spill control
capability. H-owever, under the loan, ONGC has taken up the task of addressing its safety
and enviromnent shortcomings as well as the modernization of its capabilities. The major
areas addressed under the loan were:
Oil Spill Response Capability
ONGC has engaged CFP Total, France to study the requirement of an Oil Spill Response
Centers along with a stockpile of equipment. The Indian Coast Guards subsequently
reviewed the total requirement. The newly formed regulatory body i.e. Director General
of Hydrocarbon has also formulated a National Oil Spill Contingency Plan. ONGC is
now setting up two oil spill response centers along with a stockpile of equipment.



31
Appendix B
Page 8 of 12
Fast Rescue Crafts
ONGC has decided to acquire fast rescue crafts to be provided to the Offshore Support
Vessels to reduce their response time in reaching an accident site. This will significantly
improve the safety of personnel working on offshore installations and services.
Diving Safety
Under this ONGC has hired the services of a specialist to review ONGC's Diving
regulations and its implementation/compliance by the diving contractors. The specialist
also identified ONGC's training needs as well as identifying the agencies for such
training.   ONGC's diving regulations are being modified  in line with the
recommendations of the consultant. The first batch of ONGC engineers have already
been trained.
SMS Audit and Implementation
ONGC has engaged DNVI, Norway to audit ONGC's operations based on the
International Safety Rating System. DNVI carried out an audit of typical offshore
facilities such as a process platform, a construction barge and a drilling rig etc. Based on
the report of this study, ONGC management decided to develop a Safety Management
System in line with International Safety Rating System (ISRS). 20 ONGC engineers
have also been trained by DNVI in ISRS.
6.    IMPLEMENTATION OF GAS PRICING POLICY
Implementation of this objective rests with the Government of India.  However,
significant improvements have also taken place in this direction during last few years.
The gas price has been revised few times in last few years. The Government has also
linked the gas price with the imported fuel oil prices. At present it is about 55% of the
fuel oil price and this gap will be narrowed down over the years.
7.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
As indicated above, most of the project components were completed in the time indicated
in the SAR of the World Bank except for some delays in the completion of:
* Bombay High Modification Project (BHMP).
* ICP-Heera Pipeline.



32
Appendix B
Page 9 of 12
* Second B3assein - Hazira Trunk (SBHT) Pipeline, and
* Hazira Terminal Expansion.
The delay in completion of BHMP was mainly because of the following reasons:
* Limited experience of the Contractor to execute such a job.
* Failure of the Contractor's barge.
* Delay in the finalization of sub-contractors by the main contractor.
- Additional work of repairing corroded separator shells discovered after opening.
The delay in completion of ICP-Heera Pipeline was because of the following reasons:
* Delay in Government approval of the project.
* Review of the project's requirement by ONGC as well as by the Government due to
the revision of associated gas profiles of Bombay High.
Wihile the reasons for delay in completion of SBHT Pipeline were as follows:
* Court case against ONGC's tender evaluation.
* Delay in placement of the supply order for line pipe procurement.
* Delay in finalization of sub-contractors by the main contractor.
* Plague epidemic in Surat.
* Delay in testing/de-watering/drying of the pipeline by contractor.
The completion of Hazira Terminal facilities to handle/process additional gas was
delayed due to following reasons:
* Delay in the approval of the project by Government.
* Delay in the firming up of J-Exim loan.
* Revision of the project scope due to revision in the associated gas profile of BH field.



33
Appendix B
Page 10 of 12
Seeking the Government approval for creating additional gas handling/processing
facilities.
8.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The main objective of the project was to eliminate the flaring of associated gas and the
project has achieved that. Under the Gas Flaring Reduction Project, ONGC has now
created facilities for gas processing offshore, gas evacuation to shore and its processing
on shore and its processing at Hazira onshore terminal. Availability of these facilities
will not only help ONGC in producing and transporting a wide range of sweet and sour
gas offshore which never existed in the past, but will also help ONGC to develop many
small and marginal fields lying undeveloped due to non-availability of adequate
processing and evacuation facilities. ONGC has already put one such gas field, namely,
B-121/119, on production since April 1997 and another field (B-55) is likely to start
production in mid 1998. Plans for many other fields such as B-157, BS-12, BS-13 and B-
149 etc. are under preparation to be economically developed utilizing GFRP facilities.
The project is sustainable economically. The approval of the project was granted
considering higher associated gas availability, which has undergone revision due to the
BHRC implementation. However, availability of additional South Bassein gas and
ONGC's plans to develop small and marginal gas fields has compensated for this
shortfall to a greater extent, thus avoiding reduction in project viability. The recent
revisions in gas price have further improved the project sustainability.
9.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance has been highly satisfactory during the entire duration of the
project i.e. from identification of project to appraisal and supervision to its satisfactory
completion. ONGC's project identification has brought out limited benefits of the project
to the Organization alone while the World Bank Appraisal has widened the scope of the
appraisal to cover the benefit right up to the ultimate consumer. This has brought the
Government to give natural gas the type of attention it deserved. This also caused the
Government to frame a Natural Gas Pricing Policy, paving the way for developing many
small and isolated natural gas structures lying undeveloped.
During various phases of project execution, the Bank provided very useful advice and
guidance. The openness of the World Bank missions helped in avoiding many potential
problems. The concerned World Bank Officers were always available to provide quick
and timely approvals and in many cases on the spot approvals.
World Bank missions during their visits identified the need to make up for the shortfall in
availability of associated gas by augmenting production from other sources. This helped



34
Appendix B
Page 11 of 12
in focusing ONGC management's as well as the Government's attention to speedy
clearance of development plans for additional gas production from existing fields and
marginal gas fields.
10. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The World Bank Missions or some third party can evaluate performance in
implementation of the project. However, the self-appraisal of ONGC on this project
execution leaves it quite satisfied with its performance. This is mainly because, in spite
of working with so many Government and statutory procedures and regulations, most
components of the project were completed as per the schedules indicated in the SAR.
The slight delay in completion of ICP-Heera pipeline was mainly because of ONGC's
decision to review the project afresh. While the delay in completion of the Second
Bassein-Hazira pipeline was due to some last minute court cases, delay in getting right-
of-way for onshore pipeline, heavy rains during onshore laying season, plague epidemic
in Surat and delay in dewatering/testing/drying of pipeline by the Contractor. However,
in spite of all these problems, ONGC did meet all its gas supply commitments to the
consumers. Further, the additional scope of work, identified during early 1994 to augment
South Bassein free gas production and processing as well as creation of additional gas
sweetening facilities at Hazira, was completed in less than three years of its
approval/identification. All these achievements give reasonable confidence to the
borrower about its satisfactory performance on the project.
11. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
As already indicated above under "Achievement of Objectives", the project has
satisfactorily met all its objectives. Further, as indicated under the paragraph on "Project
Sustainabilily", the project is highly sustainable even under the revised scenario of gas
availability. The revised gas price and subsequent revisions indicated by Government of
India will further improve the project viability.
12. FUT'URE OPERATION
The future operation of project has no uncertainties as gas availability from most of the
identified sources is well assured. The gas evacuation pipelines and gas processing
terminals have built in capabilities to handle wide ranges of sweet and sour gas ranges.
This will allow ONGC to evacuate and process any mix of gas ensuring full utilization of
facilities. Further, ONGC's gas evacuation pipelines are criss-crossing most of the
western offshore area making it possible to connect future discoveries also with the
existing network.



35
Appendix B
Page 12 of 12
13. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The main lesson learned during the execution of the project has been a need to closely
monitor interfacing between various components of the project. The GFRP has many
components which are inter-linked with each other. Delay in completion of one
component affects the usability of other completed components. The main example of
this has been a mismatch in completion of the Hazira Gas Sweetening facilities and
completion of the Second Bassein-Hazira Trunk Pipeline. As indicated above, the SBHT
pipeline was completed by January 1996 while the Phase-III and Phase-IIIA Gas
Sweetening facilities were completed in Sept. 1996 and October 1997 respectively
affecting the utilization potential of SBHT line. Similarly, the upgrading of Gas
Processing at BPA and BPB was completed by the end of 1996 while facilities to process
30 MMSCMD at Hazira became available only by October 1997. Some of these
interfaces cannot be avoided on projects of such a magnitude due to the involvement of
so many contractors/suppliers working under diverse conditions. Some interfacing
problems cropped up due to the change in the gas availability scenario in the middle of
project execution phase. Nonetheless, proper interfacing is a key lesson learned by
ONGC during the execution of the project.



36
Appendix C
Page 1 of 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GAS FLARING REDUCTION PROJECT(Loan 3364-IN)
PROJECT AREA OVERALL PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY PROFILE
(Gas in million cubic meters per day - Oil in million tons per year)
Bbay High Gas Produc., Flar.& Supply  Sth Bass. Produc.& Supply
Produc. Fld Use Flaring   Supply to  Produc. Field To  Total Total Proj.Cont.
Bbay Hazira         Use Hazira Hazira Supl. Gas Oil
t/y
1990-91 28.0  3.0    12.0  11.5  1.5    10.0  0.8   9.2  11.3  24.2  0.0 0.0
1991-92 24.0  3.0     9.5   11.5  0.0    14.0  0.8  13.2  13.2  24.7  0.0 0.0
1992-93 16.0  3.0    1.5   11.5           20.0  0.8  19.2  19.2  30.7  0.0 0.0
1993-94 15.0  3.0    1.5  10.5            20.0  0.8  19.2  19.2  29.7  0.0' 0.0
1994-95 17.7  3.0    1.5  13.2            20.0  0.8  19.2  19.2  32.4  1.7' 4.0
1995-96 21.2  4.0    1.5  15.7            24.1  1.0  23.1  23.1  38.8  8.6 4.5
1996-97 20.4  4.0    1.5  14.9            25.6  1.0  24.6  24.6  39.5 12.0 4.5
1997-98 19.0  4.0    1.5   13.5          35.7  1.5   34.2  34.2  47.7 19.7 4.5
1998-99 19.8  4.0    1.5  14.3           37.8  1.5  36.3  36.3  50.6 22.6 4.5
1999-00 19.1  4.0    1.5  13.6           39.7  1.5   38.2  38.2  51.8 25.8 4.5
2000-01 20.4  4.0    1.5  14.9           39.9  1.5   38.4  38.4  53.3 26.3 5.0
2001-02 19.8  4.0    1.5  14.3           37.5  1.5   36.0  36.0  50.3 263 5.0
2002-03 17.2  4.0    1.5  11.7           32.9  1.5   31.4  31.4  43.1 26.3 5.0
2003-04 15.8  3.5    1.5  10.8           33.7  1.5   32.2  32.2  43.0 26.0 5.0
2004-05 14.5  3.5    1.5   9.5           32.4  1.5   30.9  30.9  40.4 23.5 4.8
2005-06 13.9  3.5    1.5   8.9           32.0  1.5   30.5  30.5  39.4 21.0 4.3
2006-07 12.3  3.0    1.0   8.3           30.9  1.5   29.4  29.4  37.7 18.5 4.3
2007-08 11.0  3.0    1.0   7.0           29.9  1.5  28.4  28.4  35.4 16.0 4.2
2008-09  9.6  2.5     1.0   6.1          29.3  1.5  27.8  27.8  33.9 13.5 3.8
2009-10  8.1  2.0     1.0   5.1          29.3  1.5  27.8  27.8  32.9 10.8 4.2
2010-11  6.8  2.0     1.0  3.8           28.0  1.5   26.5  26.5  30.3  8.0 3.6
2011-12  5.4  2.0     1.0  2.4           27.1  1.5  25.6  25.6  28.0  6.4 3.0
- Production given under Bombay High include satellite fields and other structures.
- Gas being flared from 1993 onward is for technical and safety reasons (i.e., low pressure tail gas
within the process facilities and in remote satellite fields where recovery is not economical).
- The overall gas supply does not include other marginal fields (B-157, 149, S12, S13, 46, 48, 59 and
127) for which ONGC is presently assessing the viability of their development.



IBRD 22892
72°                                            730-
INDIA
GAS FLARING                                                                                                    GUJARAT
REDUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                    0 Baroda  220
- 22r
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
3       PROCESS PLATFORMS
TERMINAL EXPANSION                                GUJARAT                                          DAHEJ         Broach
GAS PIPELINES
EXISTING COMPONENTS:
*        PROCESS PLATFORMS
A        TERMINAL
4o       OFFSHORE LOADING POINTS                                                                                                MAOSAMBA
GAS PIPELINES                                                           ,
IIL      FERTILIZER PLANTS
DISTRIBUTION LINES
Surat
PRINCIPAL FIELDS:                                                                          KRIEHCO
POTENTIAL OIL AND/OR GAS RESERVES                                                             Haz   /
@ZZ~      PROVEN OIL RESERVES (AND ASSOCIATED GAS)     210         _jO                                                             210
PROVEN NATURAL GAS RESERVES
-        - FAULT LINES                                                         CENTRALr-
ISOBATHS IN FATHOMS
0)    STATE CAPITAL
- STATE AN D UNION  TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                       74
Domono
|  DADRA
/ AND
/~  f                4     NAGAR
SATELLITE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HVL
SATELLR TE            '                                                0                              MAHARASHTRA
STRUCTURE                                                              T \   \     AR.AP"JR/
':  '                             XX       ''"s,,     ~       ~~ ~       ~~        ~     ~~~ ''  f01
o   10  20  20  40  50  60  70
virs                     ~~~~~HIGH             --"                         | 
_,-PAKISTAN
NDIA
GUJARAT'
-,90-                                                                                       BOMBAY 19°
t MAHARASHTRA                                                                                                                  ran
Bombay                                                              '
Aroas O.
ARABIAN              /,EiA
\                 700007.; on 0.. w. ~h 4b t,. oo pw-d, 0 lb. -V.W $.f-lo.y WM00 . b 0
LANK  .-0i0Co'po'msTO. 7h 0d,uerow0d04060un00 lhf000 000  f                                  '.
.LANK~~~~,0.0.000000770 .,00400 00,40 h0pluret0.f0of0ny 0do 70000ccQafi 44 ,.Oo  4i74.000  .p  RATNA  o
000000004*000 0  I -0           720                                                               7 0, 0003



