Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CO-LENDERS' AGREEMENT
relating to the cofinancing of the Gas Flaring
Reduction Project in India
between
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
July 28, 1993
CO-LENDERS' AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into as of the 28th day of July, 1993, between 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter referred to as 
the "World Bank") and the EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (hereinafter referred to as the 
"EXIMBANK").
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS:
(A)
The Oil and Natural Gas Commission (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Borrower") has requested the World Bank to assist in the financing of Gas Flaring 
Reduction Project (hereinafter referred to as the "Project");
(B)
The World Bank has entered into a Loan Agreement (Loan Number 3364-IN) 
with the Borrower, dated July 11, 1991 (hereinafter referred to as the "World Bank 
Loan Agreement"), under which the World Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions therein set forth or referred to, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four hundred fifty million United States Dollars 
(US$450,000,000.00) (hereinafter referred to as the "World Bank Loan"), to finance 
part of the costs of goods and services required for the Project;
(C)
The World Bank Loan is guaranteed by a guarantee (hereinafter referred to 
as the "World Bank Guarantee") given by India acting by its President (the 
"Guarantor") pursuant to a Guarantee Agreement between the Guarantor and the World 
Page  2
Bank, dated         July 11, 1991;
(D)
The Borrower has requested the EXIMBANK to assist in financing the costs 
of goods and services required for the expansion project of the Hazira Gas Terminal 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Hazira Expansion Project") which constitutes a part 
of the Project;
(E)
In response to the request made by the Borrower, the EXIMBANK has entered 
into a Loan Agreement with the Borrower dated July 28, 1993 (hereinafter referred to 
as the "EXIMBANK" Loan Agreement"), under which the EXIMBANK has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower on an united basis, on the terms and conditions therein set 
forth or referred to, a loan facility in Yen in an aggregate amount not to exceeding 
twenty-two billion five hundred and twenty-five million Yen (¥22,525,000,000), which 
is equivalent to one hundred eighty-one million eight hundred thousand United States 
Dollars (US$181,800,000) (hereinafter referred to as the "EXIMBANK Loan") (the World 
Bank Loan Agreement and the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement being hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the "Loan Agreements" and individually as a "Loan Agreement");
(F)
The EXIMBANK Loan is guaranteed by a further guarantee (hereinafter 
referred to as the "EXIMBANK Guarantee") given by the Guarantor pursuant to a 
Guarantee Agreement between the Guarantor and the EXIMBANK of even date herewith (the 
World Bank Guarantee and the EXIMBANK Guarantee being hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the "Guarantees" and individually as a "Guarantee");
(G)
The World Bank and the EXIMBANK (hereinafter referred to collectively as 
the "Co-lenders" and individually as a "Co-lender") consider its desirable to 
coordinate the administration of the Loan Agreements and advise each other of matters 
concerning the Project, the Borrower and other matters of common interest.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Coordination, Exchange of Information; Consultation
Section 1.01. Each Co-lender shall, in conformity with and subject to its 
practices with respect to the treatment of information of a confidential nature at the 
request of the other Co-lender, exchange views and provide pertinent information with 
respect to the following matters:
(a)
the financial condition of the Borrower;
(b)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project; and
(c)
procurement and disbursement administration relating to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Each Co-lender shall promptly inform the other Co-lender of any of 
the following events:
(a)
any event of which such Co-lender becomes aware which, in the opinion of 
such Co-lender, is likely to materially interfere with, or seriously hinder or impair, 
the implementation of the Project or the Hazira Expansion Project or to adversely and 
materially interfere with the performance by (i) the Borrower of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement to which such Co-lender is a party and/or (ii) the Guarantor of its 
obligations under the Guarantee given in favor of such Co-lender; and/or
(b)
any notice given the Borrower to repay the whole or any part of the loan 
disbursed pursuant to the Loan Agreement to which such Co-lender is a party and any 
amount thereof actually prepaid.
Section 1.03. Each Co-lender shall inform the other Co-lender of any supervision 
mission related to its respective Loan Agreement undertaken by itself and provide to 
such other Co-lender a report setting out the main findings or results of such 
mission.
Section 1.04. Without prejudice to the independent right of decision and action 
of each Co-lender under its respective Loan Agreement, each Co-lender shall give 
notice to, and to the extent reasonably practicable consult with, the other Co-lender 
whenever it proposes to:
Page  3
(a)
suspend, terminates, cancel or accelerate, in whole or in part, the loan 
provided under its Loan Agreement;
(b)
agree to any substantial amendment to its Loan Agreement, or take any 
action which might result in the termination of its Loan Agreement; or
(c)
agree to extend the Closing Date (as defined in the World Bank Loan 
Agreement) or the Final Disbursement Date (as defined in the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement), 
as the case may be.
Section 1.05. The EXIMBANK agrees that: (a) it shall provide the World Bank with 
a copy of each Table of Disbursements (as defined in the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) that 
it sends to the Borrower; and (b) it shall not agree to any amendment to the EXIMBANK 
Loan Agreement that affects the rights or responsibilities of the World Bank under 
this Agreement without obtaining the prior consent of the World Bank.
Section 1.06. Subject to the agreement of the Borrower, the World Bank shall 
provide the EXIMBANK with a monthly disbursement summary with respect to the World 
Bank Loan prepared in accordance with its standard practice.
Section 1.07. In addition to the matters referred to in the foregoing Sections 
of this Article I, each Co-lender may consult with the other Co-lender on any matter 
of common interest arising out of this Agreement.
Section 1.08. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Co-lender 
agrees that all its decision, including decisions to take or refrain from taking 
action, concerning the Project or the Hazira Expansion Project, as the case may be, or 
the Loan Agreement to which it is a party, will be based exclusively on its own 
judgment, independently of the information provided by, or expected from, the other 
Co-lender or the views expressed by such other Co-lender.
Section 1.10. Without limiting in any way the ability of the EXIMBANK to 
exercise any of its rights under any other paragraph under Article IX of the EXIMBANK 
Loan Agreement, it is understood that the EXIMBANK will not exercise any of its rights 
under Article IX of the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement upon the occurrence of an Event of 
Default under paragraph (d) or (e) (ii) of that Article resulting solely from a 
default in the performance of any obligation of the Borrower or the Guarantor (other 
than a payment obligation) under any loan or guarantee agreement with the World Bank 
other than the World Bank Loan Agreement unless the World Bank has declared the 
relevant indebtedness to be due and payable.
ARTICLE II
Method of Financing
Section 2.01. Subject to the provision of the Loan Agreement and except as the 
Co-lenders shall otherwise agree, it is the intention of each Co-lender that the items 
to be cofinanced out of the proceeds of the EXIMBANK Loan and the World Bank Loan 
shall be financed on a parallel basis.
Section 2.02. Supervision of the procurement process and disbursement 
notification with respect to the EXIMBANK Loan shall be carried out by the World Bank 
in accordance with Article III of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Procurement and Administration
Section 3.01. Procurement of the goods and services to be financed from the 
EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall be governed by the provisions process shall be carried 
out by the World Bank in accordance with its standard procedures and practices in such 
matters. The World Bank shall provide the EXIMBANK with a copy of any communication to 
the Borrower that the World Bank makes in the discharge of its functions under this 
Section 3.01.
Section 3.02. Upon receipt by the World Bank of a Disbursement Request from the 
Borrower substantially in the form set forth in the EXIMBANK either a Disbursement 
Notice substantially in the form of Annex A hereto (or such other form as the EXIMBANK 
and the World Bank may from time to time agree) or a telex containing summary 
information to the same effect, promptly confirmed by a corresponding Disbursement 
Notice.
Section 3.03. The World Bank shall supervise the implementation of the Hazira 
Page  4
Expansion Project on behalf of the EXIMBANK in accordance with the standard procedures 
and practices of the World Bank in such matters.
Section 3.04. The World Bank will facilitate the staff(s) of the EXIMBANK to 
participate in its supervision missions and will share with the EXIMBANK the all 
information gained and documentation prepared by such supervision missions.
Section 3.05. In accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on Cofinancing 
dated March 25, 1987 between the Co-lenders, the EXIMBANK shall pay to the World Bank 
a fee of four hundred fifty-nine thousand U.S. Dollars (US$459,000,000), or such other 
amount as the EXIMBANK and the World Bank may agree, for the administrative and 
supervising services to be performed by the World Bank pursuant to this Agreement as 
follows:
(i)
within ninety (90) days from the date of conclusions of this 
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "Conclusion Date") in an 
amount of one hundred fifty-three thousand U.S. Dollars 
(US$153,000,000) for the first (lst) year which commences on the 
Conclusion Date and ends on the immediately preceding date of the 
first (lst) anniversary of the Conclusion Date (reference below to 
the second (2nd) year and the third (3rd) year shall be construed 
accordingly); and
     (ii)
within ninety (90) days from each of the first (lst) and second 
(2nd) anniversaries of the Conclusion Date, in an annual amount of 
one hundred fifty-three thousand U.S. Dollars (US$153,000), 
respectively for each of the second (2nd) year and the third (3rd) 
year.
ARTICLE IV
Adjustment for Cofinancing
Section 4.01. Subject to the agreement of the Borrower, each Co-lender shall 
take all necessary actions to incorporate relevant clauses in, and/or make such 
amendments as may be required to, the Loan Agreement to which such Co-lender is a 
party in order to reflect the cofinancing arrangement envisaged herein and to 
incorporate a cross default clause in respect of the other Co-lender's loan to such 
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness of this Agreement
Section 5.01. Subject to Section 5.02 of this Agreement, this Agreement, which 
shall take effect upon its signature by both parties, shall remain in full force and 
effect until the date on which the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have terminated or 
the date on which the World Bank Loan Agreement shall have terminated whichever is 
earlier.
Section 5.02. This Agreement may be modified from time to time by further 
agreement in writing between the Co-lenders. This Agreement may be terminated at any 
time upon thirty (30) days' advance notice given in writing by either party to the 
other party.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The World Bank shall furnish to the EXIMBANK the names of 
designated person or persons authorized to deliver the notices referred to in Section 
3.02 hereof.
Section 6.02. Any notice required under this Agreement and any agreement or 
other document contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Any such notice 
shall be deemed to have been duly given either on the date of dispatch, if delivered 
by hand or sent by telex or cable, or five (5) days after the date of posting, if sent 
by registered airmail, and in each case addressed as specified below, or to such other 
address as either party shall have designated by notice of to the other.
For the World Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the EXIMBANK:
The Export-Import Bank of Japan
4-1, Ohtemachi 1-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100
Japan
Cable address:
Telex:
EXPORTBANK TOKYO
2223728
Attention:
Director General
Loan Department I
(Asia and Oceanic)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, duly authorized representatives of the parties have executed 
this Agreement in duplicate in the English language.
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN
By /s/  Masaharu Shimizu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Charles Meissner
Authorized Representative
ANNEX A
NOTICE
We hereby acknowledge receipt of the following Request for Disbursement:
Date:
Serial No.:
Amount:
In accordance with the Co-lenders' Agreement dated as of July 28, 1993 between 
the Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIMBANK) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank"), we have examined the said Request for 
Disbursement and find it in order and eligible for financing under the Loan Agreement 
dated July 28, 1993 between the EXIMBANK and Oil and Natural Gas Commission 
("Borrower") of India.
Page  6
On the basis of the foregoing we hereby notify you as follows:
Amount of disbursement to the made by the EXIMBANK:
Amount: Yen equivalent of US Dollars: ________
  or
  Yen: ______________________________
  (for replenishment of Special Account)
NOTE:
1.
The non-eligible items included in the said application and the reason for 
non-eligibility are as follows:
(non-eligible items)
(reason)
(a)
(b)
(c)
2.
Special instructions:
