Report No. 23215
Report No: p072987 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/09/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MADAGASCAR      Project ID: P072987
Project: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project Task Team Leader:
Claudia Rokx
Appraisal Date: November 15, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: December 20, 2001    IDA Amount ($m): 13.37
Managing Unit: HDNHE     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention
Project (MSPP) is to support the Government of Madagascar in maintaining
the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS at less than 1%. To do so, the project
will scale up the response to HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections
(STIs), a key risk factor and contributor to the spread of HIV/AIDS.
I.A.3. Project Description:
This project, under the regional MAP, will finance a share of the NSP to
curtail the spread of STI/HIV/AIDS. The project will build on activities
already underway and create synergies with ongoing interventions and
projects as well as identify opportunities to utilize existing structures.
This credit will be one of many sources of technical and financial
assistance. Several other donors (see for details section D.2.) are
contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS with both new and on-going
projects and all donors collaboratively support the NSP. The details of
the project components are described in Annex 2 of the project document.
A PPF was requested to immediately scale up existing activities in the
'hotspot' areas. It became effective in May 2001. A PHRD grant has been
obtained to finance baseline epidemiological and behavior studies and the
development of the financial and operational manuals. Early results of
these studies have been used as information sources in this document. All
study-reports are available from the project files. In addition, an edited
version consolidating all reports will be published shortly after
finalizing all studies.
Project Component 1: STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Activities
The project will create a mechanism to provide financial incentives to
correct market inefficiencies in the demand for, and provision, of
prevention activities. On the demand side, there is a general lack of
knowledge about the virus, protection methods, and risks. On the other
hand, there is a lack of human and financial capacity to provide adequate
services. The fund is expected to encourage greater private and NGO sector
participation in HIV/AIDS prevention activities, resulting in an increase



in prevention at all levels (national, regional and local) and across all
high risk groups. In addition, capacity will be built and strengthened in
these institutions to ensure sustainability.
The Fund will finance demand-driven sub-projects in the following domains:
a) IEC to create awareness and social marketing of condoms and STI kits;
b) Establishment and strengthening of institutions, such as NGOs, CBOs,
local associations, youth clubs, etc;
c) Training and support to develop and strengthen the capacity of such
institutions; and
d) Testing and counseling.
There are two key groups of eligible beneficiaries: i) NGOs, CBOs and
associations that already are implementing activities in one or more of
the above categories, but need support to scale up qualitatively and
quantitatively; and ii) existing entities that do not yet have the
capacity to plan and implement HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
Project Component 2: Development of Sector Strategies, Sector Action Plans
and Financing of Pilot Sub-Projects
The development of sector plans for the prevention of HIV/AIDS is critical
to the multisectoral approach as highlighted by the MAP. The objective of
this component is to develop sector strategies and operational plans for
eight sectors (as seen in the table below) using a clear methodology
developed under the PPF and subsequently, refine them based on the
experiences and results of the pilot sub-projects. The goal of these
strategies is to ensure: (a) the preparation of action plans that are
feasible and sustainable, at the regional and national levels; (b) the
creation of a synergy and complementarity of activities of each sector and
within the framework of a multisectoral approach; and (c) the involvement
of all key sectoral partners in the development process.
In the first year of the project, tripartite Comites Sectoriels (CS) will
be formed on a permanent basis to develop the strategies and action plans
and will be made up equally of public, private and civil society
representatives. Members are selected by their peers.
These CS are responsible for: (i) the facilitation and drafting of the
sector strategies and related action plans; (ii) monitoring and evaluating
the pilot sub-projects for each sector; and (iii) coordination of
interventions undertaken in each sector. In addition, one or more
representatives of each CS will sit on the national Comite Intersectoriel
(CIS), also on a permanent basis. The CIS will coordinate the development
of sectoral policy, ensure coherence between sectors, prevent duplication
of efforts, and lead the development of national sectoral operational
activities.
Once the action plans have been developed, activities be identified as
candidates for financing as pilots, with at least one sub-project having
been launched by the end of the second year. These sub-projects should
function as the cornerstone of the sector strategy and guide development
of sectoral best practices. Experiences, information and data collected
during and following the implementation of the pilot sub-projects will be
fed back into the strategy to strengthen it.
- 2 -



Project Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
The focus of this component is threefold:
fn Monitor project activities;
n Evaluate the impact of project activities; and
n Provide support for the studies to be conducted under Component 2.
M&E activities will address three areas:
1) inputs and effects of sub-project activities on beneficiaries (high
risk groups and the general population);
2) inputs and effects of capacity building on service providers (fund
recipients); and
3) the effectiveness and efficiency of the operation of the Fund and the
project as a whole.
Component 4: Program Management and Strengthening of Institutional and
Organizational Capacity
The UGP is responsible for the day-to-day management of the project and
reports directly to the Office of the Prime Minister. It will share key
data and analysis with the Cellule through the BCN. The UGP's
responsibilities include: (i) development of the annual work program and
budget; (ii) financial management oversight of project components and the
FMA; (iii) procurement and disbursement activities; and (iv) oversight of
the monitoring and evaluation (contracted out locally) of the project.
The capacity building part of this component will target the Cellule and
its executive office, the BCN, and the UGP. First, the Cellule's
institutional capacity will be strengthened by: (i) reinforcing and
clearly defining its modus operandi (decision making processes, moderation
skills, and consensus seeking); (ii) establishment of a core group and
permanence of delegates, including NGOs and civil society, in order to
create ownership, responsibility and decisive participation in the
Cellule's decision-making process. Second, the areas of capacity
strengthening of the UGP include: (i) program management, coordination and
administrative tasks; (ii) advocacy and awareness creation; (iii) training
of trainers and technical support; and (iv) situation assessment,
monitoring and evaluation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Overall responsibility for the implementation of the multisectoral
STI/HIV/AIDS prevention project will be undertaken by the Project Unit
(UGP). It will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the
project and reports directly to the Office of the Prime Minister. The
Office is located in the capital city, Antananarivo.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: This project is being processed without a separate Environmental
Assessment because the project has been retroactively categorized as B and
as such will conduct an environmental assessment during appraisal and
-3 -



prepare a Medical Waste Management Plan as a condition of effectiveness.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is not expected to raise any major adverse environmental
issues. However, there are risks attached to the handling and disposal of
HIV/AIDS infected materials. These risks potentially affect personnel in
hospitals, health centers and municipalities who handle waste, families
whose income derives from the triage of waste and also the general public
to the extent that waste is not disposed of on site or safely contained in
protected areas. A Medical Waste Management Plan to include proper
disposal of hazardous bio-medical waste, a bio-safety training program for
the staff of all hospital, health centers and community-based programs,
including traditional midwifes and practitioners, who may be involved in
HIV/AIDS testing and treatment, will be undertaken by a Consultant
identified by ASPEN and will be financed under the PHRD grant. The
institutional arrangement with appropriate costing for the execution of
the plan is a necessary step which we will discuss with the Government. A
draft TOR will be sent by the ASPEN team to carry out the study prior to
project effectiveness.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
- 4 -



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Claudia Rokx    11/02/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank       11/05/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
11/06/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         11/05/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Arvil Van Adams 11/02/01
- 5-



For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



