Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23065-MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.70 MILLION
(US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS PREVENTI()N PROJECT
NOVEMBER 26, 2001
AFTH4
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc
1000 FMG  =  US$0.158
US$1.0 =  FMG6328
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC'Tafrica   AIDS Camnpaign Team for Africa           KAP studies     Knowledge Attitude and Practice studies
AIDS        Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome       LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
BCN         Bureau de Coordination National pour la Lutte M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
Contre le SIDA
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy              MAP              Multi-country HIlV/AIDS Program
__   ___   Ce.                    ._                      _  _  _    _ __  _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _  _   _ _
CB)         Community-based Organization              MCTC            Mother to Child Transmission Control
-CN         Cellule de Coordination Nationale        MIS             Management Information System
C          '  Center for Disease Control            MOH             Ministry of Health
cIS         Intersectoral Committee                  MSPP             Multisectoral STI/HI V/AIDSPrevention I
CMS         Commercial Marketing Strategies          NGO              Non-governmental Organization
CNLS        Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA  NSP             National Strategic Plan
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report     PFMA            Provincial Financial Management Agen ,
CS          Sector Committees                         PHRD            Japanese Grant for Human Resources Development i
CSW         Commercial Sex Workers                   PLCS             Programme de Lutte Contre le SIDA
DIHS        Demographic and Health Survey            PPF              Project Preparation Facility
EA          Environmental Assessment                  PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
EMP         Environmental Management Project          PSI             Population Services International
Ell         European Union                           STI              Sexually Transmitted Infection
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization        TA               Technical Assistance
FMA         Financial Management Agency                B              Tuberculosis
FMit        Financial Management Report                                                                     =    _1
GOM         Government of Madagascar                   GP             Unite Gestion du Projet
GPN         General Procurement Notice                UNAIDS          United Nations Aids Organization
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries           UNDP            United Nations Development Program       _ 
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAPSO       Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office    UNFPA         United Nations Fund for Population Act vities
IDA         International Development Agency          USAID           United States Agency for International De)velopment;
IEC     _   Infornation, Education, and Communication   VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
ILO         International Labor Organization          WFP             World Food Programme_
IN STAT     National Institute of Statistics          WHO             World Health Organization
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:      Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager:       Arvil Van Adams
L___                            Task Team Leader:        Claudia Rokx



MADAGASCAR
MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                         16
3. Technical                                                                         16
4. Institutional                                                                     17
5. Environmental                                                                     18
6. Social                                                                            19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   21



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                             23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 57
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          62
Annex 11: Supervision Plan                                                             64
Annex 12: Gap Analysis Part 1: summary of ongoing interventions                        66
Annex 13: Lessons Learned from International Experience                                80
Annex 14: Detailed Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements                              82
Annex 15: Summary of the National Strategic Plan                                       86
Annex 16: Coordination Mechanisms                                                      90
MAP(S)
IBRD 20035R1



MADAGASCAR
Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Project Appraisal Document
Afiica Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: November 21, 2001                           Team Leader: Claudia Rokx
Country Manager/Director: Hafez Ghanem            Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P072987                               Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ]Grant     [ Guarantee       l Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.00           0.00           1.00
IDA                                                           16.00           4.00         20.00
Total:                                                        17.00           4.00         21.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
Responsible agency: MSPP UNITE DE GESTION (UGP)
Address: B.P. 248, Antananarivo, Madagascar
Contact Person: Mr. Alain Randriamnaherisoa
Tel: 261 20 22 65449          Fax:              Email: ugp@dts.mg
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006       2007
Annual    2.50        3.60       5.00       5.75      3.15
Cumulative    2.50        6.10     11.10      16.85      20.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OC PA F:-  -U  1. ZOO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (MSPP) is to suppoit
the Government of Madagascar (GOM) efforts to promote a multisectoral response to the HIV/AIDS cnisis
and contain the spread of HIV/AIDS on its territory. To do so, the project will build capacity and scale Up
the national response to HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STIs), a key risk factor and
contributor to the spread of HIV/AIDS.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the development objective will be measured by the following indicators:
*   An increase of condom use during last sex with non-regular partners among men from 2.3 % to 15%!,i
and among women from 0.3% to 7% by the end of the project in Antananarivo and Tamatave;
* Reduction of the proportion of people aged 15-49, having at least one sex partner, other than a regular
partner in the last twelve months;
*   Decrease in prevalence of gonorrhea among CSW from 25% to below 15% by the end of the project;
and
* Increase proportion of people knowing at least three ways to prevent getting infected with HIV (wornen
from 57% to 80% and men from 44% to 90%).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 16249-MAG    Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/97
In the context of the HIPC decision point, the Government's interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) was presented to, and approved by, the Board in December 2000. The Board highlighted areas
important for poverty reduction, including HIV/AIDS, and encouraged the government to address these
areas during the fall PRSP process. A full PRSP and a new CAS are expected to be completed in late
FY02. A workshop on PRSP and HIVI/AIDS was held in March 2001 in Antsiranana, attracting over a
hundred participants from all sectors, including the local authorities, civil society, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and associations as well as donor representatives. One of the working groups during
the workshop focused on mitigating WHV/AIDS impact. The work of this group culminated in a set of
recommendations to be included in the PRSP.
This project is a Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program I (MAP I) project. Madagascar has satisfied the four
eligibility criteria of the MAP I as follows:
(a) Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS. In 2000, the GOM prepared a draft
National Strategic Plan (NSP) for the fight against HIV/AIDS in collaboration with UNAIDS, bilateral
donors, NGOs, and other civil society entities and developing sector strategies and priorities. At present.
the government is actively refining this plan through an intensive participatory process at the regional and
community levels. The final NSP will be approved before Board presentation. Despite its low prevalence,
HIV/AIDS has been mainstreamed into the government's development policy. This is repeatedly evidenced
by speeches made by government officials within Parliament and to external audiences as well as by active
government participation in national and international HIV/AIDS conferences and events.
- 2 -



(b) Creation of a high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. The Conseil National de Lutte Contre le SIDA
(CNLS) was initially created in 1990 under the Ministry of Health (MOH) to lead the national Programme
de Lutte Contre le SIDA (PLCS). While successful in dealing with health sector-related HIV/AIDS
activities, the CNLS failed to expand these to other sectors, largely because of its lack of leverage over
other sector ministries. Thus, in January 2001, the Prime Minister created a Cellule de Coordination
Nationale des Actions de Lutte Contre le VIHISIDA (CCN) -- which is the equivalent of a National AIDS
Council - to lead the development of the NSP and the coordination of multisectoral HIV/AIDS effort. The
CCN is chaired by the Directeur du Cabinet of the Office of the Prime Minister and is made up of
representatives of the public and private sectors and civil society organizations.
(c) Government agreement to use extraordinary implementation arrangements. The GOM recognizes the
importance of using existing structures to respond quickly and efficiently to HIV/AIDS problems.
Therefore, it was agreed with the GOM that the project will contract out financial management, monitoring
and evaluation, training, facilitation and other appropriate activities. The GOM will use simplified and
streamlined administrative procedures and fiscal measures for all HIV/AIDS material, equipment and
medication.
(d) Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies. Multiple agencies, including
a large number of NGOs, are currently very active in HIV/AIDS prevention in Madagascar. Under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), the GOM has already begun to scale up existing STI/HIV/AIDS
prevention activities of a broad range of implementers, including ministry departments, civil society,
NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs) and the private sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Main sector issues:
Although the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS in Madagascar is currently estimated to be less than one
percent, current estimates are based on unreliable information. Nevertheless, a low prevalence situation can
easily explode if no proactive steps are taken. The risk of a rapid increase in Madagascar is very real given
the alarmingly high rates of STIs, one of the most important risk factors.
2.1.1. Current dimensions of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Madagascar
HIV was first diagnosed in Madagascar in 1984. In 1998, out of 13.9 million people, 37 AIDS cases and
233 HIV positive cases were reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) in that year.
Epidemiological studies confin that 96 percent of HIV infections were acquired through sexual
transmission. The Ministry of Health has reported that HIV has more than doubled in three years, from
0.07 percent in 1996 to 0.15 percent in 1999. Despite these periodic studies, however, the sentinel
surveillance system has not been fully operational since 1996, creating doubts about the real prevalence of
HIV/AIDS infection, particularly since different sources report conflicting results. Although a rapid
increase in HIV/AIDS prevalence is associated with an increase in tuberculosis (TB), the National
Tuberculosis Program in Madagascar has not noticed an abnormal increase in the number of new TB
cases, but is monitoring the situation. Thus, with the exception of a few surveys in urban areas, available
data on HIV prevalence is unreliable, preventing any real conclusions about the status of the HIV epidemic.
A comprehensive MOH-led epidemiological study is being launched and partly financed under the MSPP's
PHRD grant.
-3 -



2.1.2. Risk and Vulnerability Factors
Extremely High STI rates
rhe country's STI rates - the most important risk factor along with unprotected sex - are extremely high.
Studies indicate that in some areas, over 45 percent of the population have an active STI at any given time
Syphilis and gonorrhea rates, in particular, are among the highest in the world. In 1998, active syphilis in
pregnant women was as high as 14.8 percent and over 35 percent among sex workers in some regions. In a
May 2000 study of around 1000 sex workers in Antananarivo and Tamatave, 82 percent had at least one
STI. Prevention of STIs through condom use is critical in the fight against HIV/AIDS because ulcerative
STIs, such as herpes genitalis and syphilis, increase the risk of HI-V transmission by 50 to 300 times (male
to female).
High risk sexual behavior and misconceptions
Women begin child bearing at a very early age. By the age of 18, half of all women have had one child or
are pregnant with their first. Lack of knowledge of effective prevention methods constitutes a major
determinant. Almost two in every five young girls who knew about HIV/AIDS and were sexually active,
did not know what a condom was and only 7 percent among them had ever used a condom (DHS 1997).
Madagascar ranks last in the overall percentage of women who know about H1V/AIDS (MICS 2000).
Misconceptions regarding STI/HIV/AIDS are consistently reported among youth (15-19 years of age)
including the belief that HlV/AIDS can be transmitted by insect bites, kissing, sharing dishes and touching
someone with AIDS. Cultural barriers and misconceptions about transmission, may help to explain why
condom use remains very low.
Poverty (a vulnerability factor)
Poverty is more likely to be associated with: (i) commercial sex; (ii) failure to use condoms; (iii) poor
treatment of STIs; and (iv) lack of awareness of effective preventive measures. Poverty is rampant in
Madagascar, where almost 70 percent of the population lives on less than US$1 a day. HIV/AIDS
exacerbates poverty because of its negative impact on all aspects of development. Several studies by the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) have shown that HIV/AIDS can drive households into poverty
by forcing sale of assets (e.g. livestock) to cover medical costs or by reducing household labor available for
agricultural activities. This is particularly relevant for Madagascar where 78 percent of the national
population lives in rural areas and 83 percent depend on agriculture. The high prevalence of STIs,
combined with the high percentage of the poor who cannot afford to pay for STI treatment, is a strong
argument for subsidizing STI treatments or making them available at no cost. Illiteracy associated with
poverty, prevents the poor from access to relevant IEC messages. A high HI-V/AIDS prevalence rate is also
increasingly a factor considered by private sector investors when making strategic investment decisions,
particularly in labor-intensive industries, such as mining, tourism and textiles.
Stigma, fear and denial
Since the Malagasy population has not yet seen the devastating impact that HIV/AIDS can have, the level
of awareness and concern over the disease is low. Persons living with AIDS are feared and shunned by
society. The government has begun to become more vocal but it will need to take a different approach to
generate awareness and behavior change than in countries where the prevalence is high.
2.1.3 Low implementation capacity of actors in a complex and challenging environment
The capacity to respond to the threat of STI/HIV/AIDS infection is insufficient in Madagascar. Financial,
material and human resources are lacking. The institutions, other than the MOH, responsible for the
- 4 -



response to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS have only been recently established and have weak management
capacity. The sentinel surveillance system has not functioned properly for the last five years and needs to
be strengthened. The large number of small initiatives have not been implemented in a coordinated effort.
Organizational and management capacity also needs strengthening. Financial resources and materials are
required to enhance and expand ongoing successful, critical programs. Implementation capacity is uneven
across line ministries, and the majority of these ministries have not worked on HIV/AIDS issues in the past.
With the exception of some religious groups, many civil society entities and NGOs are relatively young and
inexperienced. The results of the institutional and organizational capacity assessment, carried out under the
PHRD grant, indicate that sharing of information and lack of communication are major bottlenecks to
implementation.
2.2. Government strategy
The CNLS, initially established as an inter-ministerial body, was created in 1990 under the MOH to
manage the PNLS. Although the CNLS was later opened up to include religious groups, NGOs and other
partners, it never managed to lead a multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS. In 2001, the CCN, under the
Office of the Prime Minister, and its executive secretariat -- the Bureau de Coordination National (BCN) -
- headed by the national focal point were created to develop a multisectoral response to the fight against
STI/HIV/AIDS.
Despite the lack of a clear strategy over the past few years, the Government has been engaged in numerous
activities mostly from a health perspective. These include:
*  Health workers at district level were trained to systematically screen blood for HIV/AIDS and all were
sensitized on blood safety issues. In addition, health workers in all health facilities were trained to
diagnose and treat STIs according to the syndromic approach.
*  The syndromic approach to STI management is available but not used consistently. Prepackaged STI
treatment in different kits is expected to facilitate the approach in both the public and private sectors in
the near future.
*  A USAID funded project (the Commercial Marketing Strategies project - CMS) was put into place in
1998 and is managed by a consortium of NGOs and private sector. The project began a national social
marketing program for condoms with more than 25,000 selling points and 700 wholesalers, selling over
five million condoms last year. CMS has reached hundreds of thousands of Malagasy using both
innovative mass media (radio, television, special events) and interpersonal communication techniques,
including its mobile video unit (cinemobile) and peer educators. It has worked with specific target
groups (such as CSW and truckers) and conducts workplace initiatives to guarantee condom
distribution and basic STI/HIV/AIDS knowledge. This program needs to be scaled up to a level
required to modify behavior and prevent further spreading of the infection.
Staff of the BCN conducted field visits to seek active participation from civil society and the decentralized
levels of government for the development and finalization of the NSP and the preparation of this project.
The NSP is multisectoral and identifies a broader set of priorities for the future (see table below).
- 5-



Summary of the priorities identified in the NSP
Areas                                      Strategy
- advocacy among religious and traditional leaders
Policies and strategies                     - development of a national HIV policy
- application and monitoring of existing laws
- participatory strategic planning
- strengthening of the monitoring system
- establishment of a multisectoral structure at all
Multisectoral mobilization                  levels
- appointment of focal points for each sector
- inclusion of HIV/AIDS activities in all
development projects
- adoption of an appropriate methodology in a low
Monitoring of the epidemic                  prevalence country
- operational research
- expansion of the surveillance system
- establishment of a multisectoral system of
information sharing and dissemination.
- integration of IEC messages in traditional
IEC                                         ceremonies
- research on behavior change and the Malagasy
context and culture
- strengthening and scaling up of existing activities
- development of a national communication strategy
- development of a national STI treatment program
Health Interventions                        - development of MCTC prevention program
- strengthening of health personnel in VCT
- program for home treatment of prostitutes
- promotion of professional ethics and
confidentiality
UNAIDS Theme Group Strategy
A UNAIDS theme group, made up of up representatives of most of the donors and development agencies,
including the World Bank, has been created to provide support and advice to the Government on
HIV/AIDS. The group has prepared an Inter-Agency Program to support the Government's NSP, in whicE,
all donors specify the form of their participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
MAP and MSPP in the Malagasy context:
Madagascar is a low level prevalence country where rates have grown rapidly over the last few years.
(,iven this stage, the MAP guidelines suggest the MSPP should focus on creating an enabling environment
by increasing government commitment, expanding prevention efforts, scaling up care activities, rnitigating
the impact on other sectors, and supporting the health system in particular (MAP, report no. 20727 AFR).
Much emphasis in this project is therefore placed on reducing risk factors, in particular with respect to
-6-



STIs. The MSPP preparation team conducted a gap-analysis (see Annex 12) during pre-appraisal to
determine more precisely what the MSPP could support and, in particular, what capacity building needs
should be addressed.
Following the MAP principles, the NSP and the UNAIDS theme group Program, the MSPP proposes the
following focus:
(A) A multisectoral broad-based response. The BCN, as the executive office of the CCN is responsible
for the effective coordination of this multisectoral response. The BCN, in collaboration with the MSPP's
project implementation unit (UGP), and the sector ministries are initiating the development of sector plans.
Sector committees (CS) have been established for this purpose, grouping civil society, NGOs, public and
private sector together. A solid and balanced multisectoral response also requires a stronger and more
focused response from the health and education sectors to ensure the generation of the necessary synergy.
In particular, health sector support is critical. IDA will continue to support the efforts of the Ministries of
Health and Education to improve the overall efficiency of its initiatives.
(B) Active participation of grassroots organizations, NGOs, and civi society at all levels. The GOM,
through the BCN, is using a participatory process, involving the establishment of regional fora to permit
active participation of communities in preparing the NSP and the MSPP. This is an ongoing process and
will continue during implementation. The NGOs and CBOs working on HlV/AIDS are not only actively
involved in the UNAIDS theme group and the refinement of the national strategy but will actually be
involved in mobilizing the communities and implementing the interventions.
(C) Strengthening the implementation capacity of executing agencies (public and private sector). The
MSPP supports the institutional capacity building, technical assistance and training on project management
and HIV/AIDS for all entities involved (public, private and NGOs). It will also strengthen the
communication strategy of the NSP and develop techniques to improve IEC effectiveness (mass media as
well as targeted interventions to vulnerable groups). Umbrella organizations and large civil society entities,
including NGOs, with solid implementation skills will work with groups of small NGOs, CBOs and regions
with lower capacity which will, in the process of sub-project execution, gradually strengthen their capacity.
(D) Scaling up of ongoing preventive and care activities to address risk factors. The MSPP supports
the assessment of success factors and operational research to learn best practices that could be expanded.
Pilot projects and testing scaling up of existing interventions, are presently being financed under the PPF
and the PHRD grant. Since the country is at the very beginning of the epidemic, only a few AIDS cases
have become symptomatic and require care. While immediate future efforts focus on prevention, the health
system will be progressively confronted with the problems associated with the increase in the number of
persons living with HIV as well as the symptomatic AIDS cases. These needs will be re-assessed during
supervision missions to provide timely reallocation possibilities.
(E) Research and focus on social-cultural and gender issues and poverty reduction. The project
supports in-depth studies on the factors that contribute to the low prevalence despite the existence of
HIV/AIDS in the country since 1984 and significant risk factors. Following the MAP principles, special
attention is being given to interventions that benefit women, since women are found to bear a higher burden
of the HIV/AIDS impact. Emphasis will be on providing women with improved economic, social, and
educational opportunities, changing attitudes about men's and women's traditional gender roles,
strengthening of women's organizations, and supporting technologies to enable women to protect
themselves. A study on gender is being financed under the PHRD grant.
- 7 -



(F) Immediate actions in 'hotspot areas (PPF). HIV/AIDS cases have been reported in the following
hotspot areas: Antananarivo, Tamatave, Sainte Marie, Diego, Tulear, and Morondava. The GOM
requested the Bank during the identification mission to provide immnediate funds to deal with the needs in
these areas. A PPF became effective in May 2001 to respond to this need. Activities under the PPF target
CSWs, truckers, youth and STI patients. Lessons learned from high prevalence countries suggest that HI V
spreads rapidly not only along truck routes, but also from informal mining areas, both of which are groups
who engage CSW regularly. To this end, the PPF also targets emerging "hot spots", such as the sapphir,
mining areas of Ilakaka and Sakaraha, with focused interventions for miners and CSWs, and along prirr-ary
truck routes such as the Tamatave-Moramanga-Antananarivo corridor.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
This project contributes to financing the NSP to curtail the spread of STI/HIV/AIDS. It consists of four
components:
1)    financing of development of key sector strategies and action plans;
2)    a Fund to finance existing and new STI/HIV/AIDS prevention activities;
3)    a monitoring and evaluation system; and
4)    project management and strengthening of organizational and institutional capacity building.
The project builds on activities already underway, creates synergies with ongoing interventions and
projects, and utilizes existing structures to implement its interventions. This credit is but one of many
sources of technical and financial assistance with other donors contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS
with both new and on-going projects. The details of the project components are described in Annex 2.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total       (US$M)  financing
I.Financial Assistance to develop                       2.20      10.5       2.12      10.7
Sector Plans and Pilots
2. Fund for STIHIV/AIDS prevention                     15.00      71.4      14.30      72.1
activities
3. Monitoring and evaluation                            1.80       8.6       1.50       7.6
4. Project management and                               2.00       9.5       1.90       9.6
strengthening of organizational and
institutional capacity building                                                      __
Total Project Costs                   21.00     100.0      19.82     100.0
Total Financing Required                    21.00      100.0     19.82      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is a multisectoral operation that is intended to support institutional refonns across several
sectors working on H1V/A1DS. These include:
* strengthening the institutional capacity of the CCN, the BCN, the Conseil du PMPS; the UGP and the
various implementing agencies;
* supporting the creation of sector committees (CS) which include public and private representatives;
- 8 -



* empowering communities to play a stronger advocacy role;
* improving inter-ministerial coordination; and
* strengthening the sentinel surveillance system and establishing a strong M&E system, with donor and
beneficiary participation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project contributes to reducing new HIV/AIDS infections in Madagascar by increasing awareness,
emphasizing safe-sex practices and improving access to STI treatment. Although intended to reach all
Malagasy and prevent development of an epidemic, the project will target most vulnerable groups and
support community ability to prevent the spread of infection.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Set-Up
National Strategic                               Operational
Arrangements                                     Arraneements
Of fice of the
Prime
Minister t
Cellule de
Coordination (C
Conseil
du PMPS        Audit
Committee
Bureau de                               Unite de Gestion du
Coordination                               Projet (UGP)
(BCN)
a) Strategic Institutional Arrangements for National HIV/AIDS Program
The mandate of the CCN (the National AIDS Council) is to define national priorities and guide the
strategic orientation of all HLV/AIDS activities. To ensure the coherence of the HIV/AIDS prevention
activities of the different partners in the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, an
executive bureau (BCN) has been established to coordinate all national lIV/AIDS prevention activities.The
BCN should ensure that the output of all projects are consistent with the national priorities. Among its
specific functions are: (i) the collection, analysis and dissemination of data and information on HIV/AIDS
activities in Madagascar; (ii) the distillation and dissemination of good practices; and (iii) assuming the role
of secretariat of the CCN.
To drive the development of the various national sector strategies, the BCN is establishing sectoral
-9-



committees (CS) at the central and regional levels for each sector made up of representatives of public,
private and civil society organizations. Specifically, the CS are responsible for facilitating the development
of sector strategies and action plans and for identifying key pilot projects for each sector to be financed
under Component 2. The results of the pilot projects will be disseminated by the CS and will enable the
refinement of each sector strategy.
b) Project Operational Arrangements
Following the MAP principles of ensuring that the national AIDS entity has a 'coordinating role rather than
a 'control' function, the MSPP will have a council -- the Conseil du PMPS, which reports directly to the
Office of the Prime Minister. The Conseil is made up of fifteen permanent members including the Directeur
du Cabinet of the Office of the Prime Minister, and one representative each from the BCN, the eight key
sectors, the Ministry of Finance, the Ordre des Experts Comptables de Madagascar, the NGO sector, the
private sector, and beneficiaries associations (such as people living with AIDS or high risk groups). The
Conseil is responsible for: (i) approving the UGP's annual work program and budget; (ii) approving
requests to the Fund over $100,000; (iii) ensuring that the project-financed activities achieve the project
development objective; (iv) approving annual technical and financial audits; (v) adopting and approving
the Manuel de Procedures of the Fund and the Implementation Manual, and approving modifications to
them; (vi) evaluating the performance of the UGP based on performance indicators, in consultation with
IDA; and (vii) approving the recruitment of the Financial Management Agency (FMA).
The UGP is responsible for the day-to-day management of the project. It will share key data and analysis
with the CCN through the BCN. The UGPs responsibilities include: (i) development of the annual work
program and budget; (ii) financial management oversight of project components and the FMA; (iii)
procurement and disbursement activities; (iv) oversight of the monitoring and evaluation (contracted out
locally) of the project; (v) assuming the role of secretariat of the Conseil; and (vi) consolidation of
production of periodic reports of the project. Personnel of the UGP include (i) National Director; (ii) an
Operational Manager; (iii) financial Management specialist; (iv) a procurement specialist; (v) a training
coordinator; (vi) a monitoring specialist; (vii) an evaluation officer; and (viii) administrative support. In
addition, the project will finance periodic intemational technical assistance.
Civil society organizations (including NGOs, religious organizations, women's and farmers associations,
unions, and private enterprises) as well as private sector bodies will be contracted to implement project
activities. The financial management of the Fund will be contracted out by the UGP to a FMA in line with
MAP best practice experience of contracting out project administration and coordination activities to
established experts (see Annex 2).
Since certain HIV/AIDS prevention activities are the health sector's responsibility directly and fall within
the mandate of the MOH; specific attention must be given the role of the MOH within this framework.
- 10 -



b) Flow of Funds
The flow of funds from IDA credit is presented as follows:
World Bank
FMA Central level:                   UGP: Special Account A
Special Account B:                   (Components 1,3,4)
Funds(Component 2)
Grants to recipients (NGOs,
CBOs, private sector entities     Part of
etc..) for provision of goods     Component 1
and services
Suppliers of goods and services
To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds, two special accounts will be opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA as follows:
*     The Special Account A will be managed by the UGP and will cover transactions related to
components 1, 3 and 4;
The Special Account B (for Fund under component 1) will be managed by the FMA and will cover
transactions related to component 2;
The replenishment of the Special Account B should be based on periodic expenditure reports submitted by
FMA at the central level, justifying the use of funds, and accompanied by reconciled bank statements while
supporting documents are kept by executing agencies (NGOs, CBOs, private entities etc.) where expenses
are incurred and paid for examination by extemal/intemal auditors and bank staff.
The initial advance to contractors (NGOs, CBOs, civil society, other organizations) will be made in
conformity with the terms of contract signed between the FMA and the contractors. Subsequent payments
will be based on review of periodic progress reports (financial and physical) submitted to PFMAs
(Provincial Financial Management Agencies) by the contractors and forwarded to FMA at the central level.
The project implementation and accounting manuals will describe in details all procedural aspects
- 11 -



regarding financial management (payments, replenishment, reporting, intemal control) and reference to the
procedures outlined in these manuals will be indicated in the DCA.
Funds deposited in Special account A will be used by the UGP to pay: i) the amount of grants allocated to
the executing agencies of the component 1; ii) suppliers of goods and services under the components 3 andl
4.
c) Audit Arrangements
To obtain reasonable assurance that funds are used efficiently and for the intended purpose, the following
audit arrangements will be in place. The project accounts and financial statements (for all components) will
be audited in accordance with international audit standards by independent and experienced auditors under
terms of reference that have been approved by IDA. The auditors will provide opinions on the project
financial statements, the special accounts and statements of expenditures. The auditors will be also required
to carry out a comprehensive review of the internal control procedures and provide a management report
outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The auditors report will be submitted to IDA not
later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. A financial and technical audit of sub-projects shouLd
be also carried out by auditors on a selective basis to ensure the efficient use of funds for intended purpose.
An audit committee will be formed as a sub-committee to the Conseil. Members of this audit committee
will be the representative of the Ordre des Experts Comptables de Madagascar, the Ministry of Finance,
and beneficiary association member of the Conseil. The role of the audit committee is to facilitate the
external auditor's work, review and ensure the implementation of the recommendations of the auditors, an,d
act on their findings.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
See Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa Region Project Appraisal Document (report
no.20727 AFR), paragraphs 67-69 as to the reasons for selecting the MAP approach.
Two alternatives to the proposed MSPP were considered. The first was to supplement the work done on
HIV/AIDS under the ongoing Second Health Sector Support project. This was not felt to be the most
effective solution, given the multidimensional nature of the HIV/AIDS problem. Earlier experience
demonstrated the difficulties of one line-ministry being responsible for a project with a multisectoral
mandate. The second alternative considered was simply adding the HIV/AIDS interventions to the
Community Development Fund Project, which provides funds to communities in a flexible and rapid
manner. This option was rejected because of the already high demands placed on the CDF project and it,
coordination unit.
- 12 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Second Health Sector Support     S             S
Project
Second Community Nutrition       S             S
Project
Third Social Fund Project        S             S
Transport Sector Project         S             S
Education Sector Development     U             S
Mining Sector Project            S             S
Community Development Fund       S             S
Other development agencies
UNAIDS                            Coordination and TA
USAID                             Support to PNLS and TA
UNICEF                            Support to PNLS and TA
WHO                              TA
UNFPA                            TA
UNDP                             TA
Cooperation Francaise             Support to PNLS and TA
EU                                TA
ILO                               TA
GTZ                               TA
African Development Bank          TA
Japan                             PHRD financing and TA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons have already been culled from the implementation of on-going MAP projects. In
particular, lessons were taken from the US$500 million Multi-Country Program for Africa Progress
Review Mission Report for FYO1 and were shared with the Government and partners. The following key
lessons from MAP 1 were reflected in the project design:
a) Despite strong government and partner commitment, MAP projects tended to lose momentum after
Board approval. In Madagascar, the PPF has been used to begin financing pilot HIV/AIDS activities
which has served to encourage NGOs and local associations to begin to prepare proposals for financing
under the Fund. In addition, the operational manuals have been drafted and are expected to be finalized
before effectiveness to prevent any bottleneck in implementation once the project becomes effective.
b) MAP implementation is more successful in countries where the National BHIV/AIDS body has a
- 13 -



"coordinating" role rather than "control". The CCN in Madagascar is responsible for developing and
refining the National Strategic Plan and setting national priorities. Thus it guides the strategic orientation of
all HIV/AIDS partner prevention projects but does not directly approve the work plans of such projects.
The CCN has been established by Decree and is advised by a consultative group, which includes
representatives of donors, NGOs, private sector, and beneficiary associations. However, its roles and
responsibilities still need to be defined legally.
c) Lessons from the MAP highlights the importance of contracting out financial management of project
activities to ensure: (i) rapid disbursement and handling of a large volume of transactions by an experienced
agency; (ii) enhanced transparency; (iii) minimal establishment of new structures to avoid duplication; (iv)
clear contractual obligations and performance monitoring; (v) knowledge transfer from FMA to the
implementing agency during the contract period; and (vi) cost efficiency in the FMA undertaking mandated
functions, such as audits. Criteria have been developed (and are included in the Procedures Manual of the
Fund) for the selection and evaluation of a financial management agency. The UGP will use
performance-based contracting to ensure maximum efficiency.
d) The MAP approach requires close partnership in supervision of projects. The gap analysis (Annex 12)
shows the active involvement of donors and other partners in HIV/AIDS prevention activities. A
supervision plan (see Annex 11) has been prepared to ensure that these partners continue to be actively
involved and responsible for certain areas of supervision on a regular basis. In addition, partners will
undertake a technical review of proposals submitted to the Fund over $25,000.
In addition to the MAP experience, other lessons have been incorporated from intemational experience (see
also Annex 13 for experience in low prevalence countries):
1. Stakeholder and donor collaboration. The project was prepared in close consultation with the
UNAIDS theme group and bilateral donor agencies as well as civil society. In addition, the UNAIDS theme
group is spearheading the production of an Inter-Agency Program to support the government in its fight
against HIV/AIDS, of which this project forms part. The development of this document was undertaken by
a diverse working group that meets regularly and includes representatives from NGOs and civil society. A
successful collaboration has begun between public, private and NGO sector in the promotion and
distribution of condoms, within the larger framework of behavioral change. SOMARKT and CMS in
Madagascar are private/commercial actors and the main distributors of condoms.
2. Need for multisectoral approach. Experience around the world and in Madagascar shows that there is
a need for a multisectoral approach to the prevention of the spread of HIV/AIDS, since this epidemic is not
just a health problem but also a development challenge. Key ministries as well as representatives in the
private sector and civil society of all sectors have been involved in the development of the NSP and
continue to be involved through the MSPP. The first component of this project targets specifically these
partners in developing sector strategies and operational plans that will lead to the financing of activities as
part of a larger country strategy. At the same time, the role of the Ministry of Health is recognized as key
particularly in the reduction of risk factors. For example, early appropriate STI treatment can reduce HIV
transmission by over 40 percent; therefore consideration will need to be given to providing universal free or
highly subsidized access to the syndromic approach based STI treatment.
3. Importance of Socio-Cultural Context. Madagascar is unique in its socio-cultural environment
blending traditional beliefs from Africa and Asia (specifically Indonesia). Evaluation of various IEC efforts
in Madagascar indicates that efforts have generally been made in developing 'information' rather than
- 14 -



'action-based' messages. The clear link between information and specific behavioral change has not been
evident nor pursued. The project will therefore emphasize the adaptation of the IEC messages to the
Malagasy socio-cultural context. An analysis of the behaviors, attitudes and practices of individuals,
high-risk groups and communities toward sex, use of condoms, and incidence of STIs, by specific
characteristics of each province (KAP studies), is being undertaken under the PHRD grant. This analysis
facilitates the more defined identification of high-risk groups (CSWs, truckers and taxi-brousse drivers)
and high risk communities (urban slums, people living next to tourist resorts, mining communities, etc.) for
which special targeted sectoral interventions will be developed.
4. Importance of Monitoring and Evaluation for Project Success: M&E is critical to assess project
progress and the extent to which it is achieving its stated objectives. M&E information allows a project to
assess the degree to which it is targeting the right populations and financing the appropriate activities,
helping management to redirect the project when necessary. Moreover, a good evaluation system will
permit the testing of specific strategies, the formulation of lessons and the fine-tuning of approaches. This
entails the establishment of a systematic monitoring system and well-designed evaluation studies, using
both quantitative and qualitative methodologies. A reliable STI/HIV/AIDS sentinel surveillance system is
essential for tracking the evolution of the epidemic. The project has M&E as a separate component to
ensure that project activities are adequately monitored and impact carefully evaluated, and that pilots tested
receive the necessary follow-up.
5. Assessment of NGO capacity. Since NGOs and local associations will act as implementing agencies, an
assessment of their capacity was undertaken under the PHRD to determine what types of capacity building
would be required for these entities, whether organizational, administrative, financial or technical. This
assessment is the basis for the types of capacity building activities that will be financed under Component 4
of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Madagascar has repeatedly demonstrated its strong commitment - at the highest levels
- to preventing the spread of STI/HIV/AIDS. The GOM is pressing to accelerate the MSPP and has urged
the World Bank to provide financing for the immediate scaling up of interventions in the hot spot areas.
The GOM has agreed to use three percent of the HIPC proceeds for HIV/AIDS with a possible increase
over the coming years.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA's leveragedfunding. Under the umbrella of UNAIDS, many donors are supporting the government's
efforts to step up efforts to combat HIV/AIDS. However, no donor alone is able to mobilize the amount of
resources necessary to finance the government's National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. IDA's support to the
NSP is leveraged by the ongoing portfolio, including the Second Health Sector Support project, the
Education Sector Development project, the Transport project and the Mining project, the approved PHRD
Grant for this project (in the amount of US$452,400), the Poverty Reduction Strategy process, and the
allocation of HIPC resources.
Cross country experience: The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and STI control projects and
contributes its experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of these programs. Through its
regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica), the Bank is well-positioned to provide
Madagascar with regional and international experiences and lessons learned. Moreover, through its
involvement in various sectors in Madagascar and its experience with supporting decentralized,
community-based projects, such as the social fund projects and the two community nutrition projects, IDA
- 15-



is well placed to assist the Government in undertaking the national effort to fight HIV/AIDS in a truly
multisectoral and community-oriented manner.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The 'Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS' contained in the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region (Report No. 20727 AFR) provides the overall econorric
justification for the MSPP.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be relatively small with counterpart funds not constituting Et
heavy burden on the government budget.
3. Technical:
The project relies on existing knowledge and experiences gained in Madagascar and in other African and
Asian countries. The preparation team relied heavily on the UNAIDS theme group in Madagascar for the
project's technical content. The MSPP design follows the MAP principles and the National Strategic PlaIn
which reflects a consensus among all stakeholders.
During irnplementation, the UGP will continue to rely heavily on the partners for technical support. For
example, before approval by the FMA, all sub-project proposals to the Fund above US$25,000 will be
reviewed by a technical partner agency with comparative advantage in the type of activity proposed (Annex
16 provides details). Subprojects over US$ 1 00,000 will be reviewed by a sub-committee of technical
partners. The terms of reference for the facilitation as well as the short list will be reviewed in collaboration
with all partners. The UGP can at all times apply for technical support to the UTNAIDS theme group
partners and the UNAIDS Secretariat. Yearly technical audits will be undertaken by independent
consultants.
- 16 -



4. Institutional:
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the proposed operation are detailed in the Project
Description Summary and in the implementation manual, which is currently being finalized. Much
discussion was held on the institutional set-up with the objective of identifying a transparent and efficient
implementation arrangement in a challenging enviromnent. The national strategic coordinating entities have
all been recently established and have limited experience and weak capacity. A proposal to establish the
project's implementation unit within the BCN of the CCN was rejected to avoid a control function of the
CCN over the project, following lessons learned from MAP I. A decision was made to place the UGP
outside the BCN and establish a management council for the UGP to ensure the necessary checks and
balances. There will be close collaboration between CCNIBCN and the UGP during the development of the
action plans to ensure that project activities fall within the context of the National Strategic Plan. Through
the IJNAIDS Theme group, the project will continue to assist the CCN with the enhancement of the NSP to
ensure a solid analytical basis for the definition of the priorities for the national response.It is also crucial
for the success of the project that there is close collaboration with the MOH because the project will create
demand for health services such as prevention of mother-to-child transmission, voluntary counseling and
testing, and treatment for opportunistic infections.
An institutional capacity assessment was financed under the PHRD (the full document is available in
project files). The assessment evaluated the capacity of existing institutions, both formal and informal, that
operate within the public, private, and NGO sectors. Particular attention was paid to inter-organizational
relationships, communication, incentives, bottom-up accountability and management capacity. The
implementation set-up was designed based on the recommendations of this report and of other stakeholders.
The institutional capacity building component focuses on strengthening inter-organizational relations and
communications, advocacy, planning, programming and management.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The GOM will sub-contract implementation of project activities to existing structures, such as departments
of line-ministries, NGOs, CBOs, and private sector entities. The implementation manual details the
procedures and modalities for selection and contracting of these entities
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be assured by the UGP. To ensure an early implementation of project activities,
all key staff (the national director, the operational manager, the financial management specialist,the
procurement officer, and Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist) have to be hired. All key members of the
UGP will be recruited on a contractual basis in line with Bank Guidelines and contracts will be extended
year by year based on performance. These recruitments are a condition for effectiveness. Financial
management of funds allocated to the Component 2 will be contracted out to a FMA using a
performance-based contract. The manual of procedures for the Fund spells out the specific criteria that will
be used to select and evaluate the FMA. The recruitment of the FMA is a condition of effectiveness. The
draft Terms of Reference will be reviewed by the Bank financial management specialist.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A new Procurement Code was issued in 1998 and the Bank ascertained that deficient features identified in
the 1995 CPAR have been properly addressed. Bank standard bidding documents (SBDs) are widely used
and have helped ensure that any unacceptable features do not affect Bank-financed procurement. However,
one area of concern is that the Government's approval process for contract signing is cumbersome and
involves an excessive number of bureaucratic steps causing unnecessary delays. In addition, insufficient
programming and procurement planning contribute to delays in project implementation resulting slow
disbursement. To mitigate risks of delays for the proposed project, proper prerequisites for the use of Bank
- 17 -



standard bidding documents, including evaluation reports for National Competitive Bidding procedures
(NCB) will be agreed on with the Government during negotiations.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the UGP, including training needs and arrangements, was
undertaken by an experienced procurement specialist as part of appraisal. On the basis of the assessment,
an action plan was agreed upon to address areas where the UGP needs to be strengthened to meet good
performance criteria for procurement. The action plan includes (i) the recruitment of a procurement
officer; (ii) a specific section on procurement in the Project Implementation Manual to be finalized before
effectiveness; (iii) the organization of the filing of procurement-related documents; (iv) procurement
training sessions for project staff; and (v) the financing of independent procurement and technical audits to
be carried out on a regular basis (see Annex 6 for details). Provision for procurement capacity
strengthening was also included in the PPF to ensure that the UGP has the necessary skills and knowledge
as early as possible -- as rapid disbursement will be critical for the success of this urgent operation. To
ensure that procurement does not become a bottleneck for disbursement, a good procurement procedures
manual must be designed and Credit funds should provide for implementation assistance and ex-post
reviews. Simplified procurement procedures will be used for community activities with local NGO support
to help with the bidding and consultant selection procedures as well as contract management.
Since a large portion of the Credit funds will be used for technical assistance and consulting assignments,
early attention will be given to advance planning of recruitment and timely search for expressions of
interest through intemational advertising to obtain the best possible pool of candidates from which strong
short lists can be compiled.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The assessment carried out during appraisal by an IDA accredited specialist focused on the UGP's
financial management system. The FMA, designed to manage the funds under the component 2 is not
identified yet. It will be selected on a competitive basis and its capacity and systems will be assessed before
credit effectiveness to determine whether they meet the requirements of sound financial management.
The assessment of the UGP's financial management system determined that the arrangements in place meelt
the Bank's minimum requirements with respect to basic accounting system and intemal controls but further
strengthening is needed to improve its performance. In addition the system cannot produce yet quarterly
Reports for Financial Monitoring required by the Bank. The following measures will be taken prior to
credit effectiveness to strengthen the UGP's financial management system: i) review of the existing Chart
of accounts to reflect activities outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and satisfy reporting
requirements; ii) recruitment of a second accountant to ensure adequate separation of duties between the
accounting staff (recording of transactions, controls, supervision); iii) finalization of the accounting manual
of procedures and organization of user's training to facilitate record-keeping and ensure consistent
application of control procedures described in the manual; iii) recruitment of an audit firm acceptable to
IDA to audit the project accounts; iv) recruitment of a FMA (Financial Management Agency) to handle
funds financing activities under the component 2. An agreed action plan by the borrower has been also
developed to build the UGP's capacity (implementation and use of computerized system) to produce
quarterly FMRs even the project opted for traditional disbursement procedures. The computerized system
(MIS) will be operational by November 2002.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental category B rating. A medical waste plan will be prepared. The plan will include
- 18 -



specifications regarding the institutional arrangements for implementation of the plan and accountability,
and will include a cost budget.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
These will be outlined in the consultant's report.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
A consultancy to carry out a study on Medical Waste is planned to take place in December 2001. The
results of the study and the plan will be published and will be available in the project files.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Details in consultant report.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Details in consultant report.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Madagascar is still at an early stage in the epidemic and therefore in the fortunate position to potentially be
able to curb its spread. The project is designed to reach the population at large and specifically, vulnerable
groups, such as youth, prostitutes and their clients, migratory workers, etc. It will empower these groups to
undertake HIVIAIDS activities to prevent the severe socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS that is seen in
countries with high prevalence rates. In addition, the PHRD grant is financing studies on sexual and
socio-cultural behavior to serve as input into the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project was developed on the basis of the government's NSP and in close consultation with key
government, NGO and elected representatives as well as intemational stakeholders. Different focus group
discussions were conducted at the central level and local levels. In addition, several regional meetings were
carried out with the participation of local development actors and potential beneficiaries to develop regional
and sectoral HIV/AIDS strategies. Technical assistance was provided to assist the government in
empowering the communities and NGOs to actively participate in designing and implementing the national
HIV/AIDS program through the PRSP process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations are actively involved the development of the NSP and the
project and continues to be involved in implementation. Many NGOs in Madagascar are already very
active in HIV/AIDS prevention activities, but efforts have been sporadic and limited in scope. The project
will help them to scale up their activities quantitatively and qualitatively as well as build the capacity of the
local NGO and civil society sector.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 19 -



At the central level, the CCN presided over by the Director of Cabinet has been created. This committee
composed of government officials, private sector, NGOs and other civil society organizations, oversees the
coordination of national multisectoral HIV/AIDS prevention efforts. At the regional and local levels, the
project aims at empowering local communities through the fund to encourage demand-driven local
initiatives (generally existing programs) and facilitate the development of the supply side through the use of
NGOs and other entities as facilitators to assist fund applicants with the development of sustainable
proposals for funding.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Project monitoring through the MIS and site visits will be complemented with community monitoring of
subprojects. This will provide project management with user feedback on services delivered during
implementation. In addition, brief beneficiary assessments will be conducted on services provided by large
subprojects at the end of their contract.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes _  No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Details will be provided in consultant report (January 2002).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to become institutionally sustainable during implementation. It is built on strong
government ownership and emphasizes the strengthening of the capacity of all players, including civil
society and the private sector. The CCN, who will oversee the implementation of the NSP, will be
strengthened in addition to the coordination and advocacy role of the BCN. The institutional capacity of the
Conseil du PMPS will be built, including its modus operandi and membership, while the UGP will build
capacity in management, financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation through
transfer of knowledge from the various contractors. At present, 3 percent of the HIPC funds have been
allocated to the fight against HIV/AIDS. However, given the rate of poverty, it is not expected that
Madagascar will be able to finance these activities following the project; thus financing will be needed
beyond 2006.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Civil society organizations are not         M         The availability of the fund will be advertised
informed about availability of the Fund,              through the radio, facilitators and by UNAIDS
and/or are not interested in participating.           theme group partners. In addition, interest has
been demonstrated already.
Capacity among implementing entities is     M         Training and technical assistance for
not sufficient to implement proposed                  implementing entities is available through the
sub-projects.                                         fund. In addition, supervision will be formative,
giving constructive feedback on the spot.
Target groups cannot be easily reached by   M         Experiences of other donors and other MAP
NGOs and implementing entities.                       projects will be taken into account.
The logistics of setting up sales outlets for  M      An intemational firm with ample experience will
condoms and STI kits is too difficult.                be contracted to manage the commercial
marketing of condoms and STI kits.
Demand for STI kits is insufficient to      M         IEC activities will focus on use of STI kits,
interest physicians in promoting them.                particularly among CSWs. Private sector
physicians will be trained on their use. The
project will coordinate closely with the MOH to
ensure efforts are not being duplicated.
Supervision of subproject activities is     M         Supervision missions will ensure quality
insufficient to ensure to ensure quality              supervisors are hired. Quality at entry will be
execution.                                            assured in large contracts through the review of
proposals by extemal partners.
Capacity of the UGP is insufficient to      S         Financial management of the fund and some
adequately manage the project.                        monitoring and evaluation activities are being
subcontracted out. UNAIDS theme group
partners will be involved in reviewing proposals
over US$25,000, and providing technical
support in other aspects of the project.
Facilitators and NGOs are unable to         M         Facilitators will be very carefully selected, and
prepare realistic subprojects.                        closely supervised during the first year of
implementation.
The public sector will fail to work closely  S        Sector committees are being established and
with the private and NGO sector to ensure             workshops are being conducted to initiate the
effective sector plans.                               process. Coordination will be ensured through
the Conseil du PMPS.
Data and infornation collected and          M         Data for annual progress reviews will be derived
- 21 -



analyzed from MIS system are not used to              from the MIS and will be discussed with internal
improve project implementation.                       and external partners. Annual implemenlation
plans will be supported by data from the MIS.
Discussions with partners will foster the use of
data for decision making.
From Components to Outputs
Multi-sector coordination and               M         Sector committees are being established and
collaboration is insufficient to produce              workshops are being conducted to initiate the
viable sector plans.                                  process. Coordination will be ensured thlrough
the Conseil du PMPS.
The purpose of the project and the fund is  M         The purpose of the project and the fund, and
not adequately disseminated.                          ways to access financing will be advertised
through the media, through facilitators, and
through partners.
A sufficient number of capable M&E          M         The search for capable staff was initiated during
specialists are unavailable in Madagascar.            pre-appraisal and will continue with the help of
other donors throughout pre-effectivenes s.
Slow disbursement due to limited UGP        S         Financial management will be subcontracted
implementation/management capacity.                   out, and procurement training will be provided
to UGP staff, with close supervision durrng the
first two years of implementation.
1Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High isk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Risks        Risk rating                   Risk Mitigation Measures
Funds Flow       Substantial     FMA and M&E staffjoint review with auditors
External Audit  Substantial      *    Association of local auditors with international
auditing firm;
*    Recruitment of auditors based on QCBS method;
*    Quarterly technical and financial audit performned
Iby external auditors.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Experience in other MAP countries shows that the establishment of a national multisectoral HIV/AIDS
program outside the Ministry of Health (reporting directly to the top levels of government) has caused
resentment and confusion among health officials. There is thus a clear need for the CCN and its executive
secretariat, the BCN, to recognize the importance of the health sector in the multisectoral fight against
HIV/AIDS, have clear lines of communication with the Ministry of Health and come to agreement as early
- 22 -



on as possible on the roles and responsibilities in HIV/AIDS prevention.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Recruitment of all key UGP staff, acceptable to IDA
*    Establishment of Conseil du PMPS and UGP by decree
*    Annual Project Implementation Plan for first year, acceptable to IDA
*    Legal creation of the Fund
*    Procedures and Implementation Manuals acceptable to IDA
Financial Management Conditions
*    Establishment of a financial management system acceptable to IDA
*    Recruitment of external auditors acceptable to IDA
*    Project account opened and counterpart funds deposited
*    Recruitment of the Financial Management Agency, acceptable to IDA
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants
*   The UGP and FMA shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures;
*   Records, accounts, special accounts, SOEs and sub-projects shall be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA;
*   Production of FMRs
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
OI 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The proposed project is not fully compliant with the Guidelines for Category B environmental
- 23 -



classification. The project was reclassified as a B just prior to appraisal to provide for Medical Waste
facilities on the sub-project. A consultant will be recruited to undertake a medical waste plan, the results of
which will be integrated into the Procedures Manual. The Procedures Manual will govern the approval of
subprojects und the Fund.
Claudia okx                           VHail V
Team  eader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Ma      Director
-24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To mitigate the social and                                                      The Government prioritizes
economic impact of STI/                                                         HIV/AIDS prevention to
HIV/AIDS in Madagascar.                                                         permit a sustainable
coordinated response to the
epidemic.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To contain the spread of   An increase of condom use    DHS/Hhld Survey/        Multisectoral activities
HIV/AIDs in Madagascar     during last sex with       Special Studies            financed, including increased
non-regular partners among                           knowledge of risks and
men from 2.3% to 15%, and                            methods of prevention, will
among women from 0.3% to                             lead to attitudinal and
7%, by the end of the project                        behavior change regarding
in Antananarivo and                                  prevention.
Tamatave.
Reduction of the proportion of
people aged 15-49, having at                          Government commitment to
least one sex partner, other                         prevent the spread of HIV is
than a regular partner, in the  DHS/Hhld Survey/Special    sustained throughout the life
last twelve months.       Studies                    of the project.
Decrease in prevalence of
gonorrhea among CSW from                              Multisectoral coordination is
25% to below 15% by the end                           effective.The MOH
of the project.                                      collaborates closely with the
Special Studies            project and its activities to
ensure demand for STI care
will be met. STI kits are
appropriately used.
Increase proportion of people                        IEC activities financed by the
knowing at least three ways to                        project will be effective, and
prevent getting infected with                         will reach a sufficient number
HIV (women from 57% to                                of people.
80%, and men from 44% to
90%).
DHS Survey
- 25 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Subprojects designed and   Increase by 5% annually the   Project Data.       Civil society organizations are
implemented to prevent the   number of civil society                            informed about availability of
spread of HIV/AIDS.       organizations conducting                              fund, are interested in
HIV/AIDS prevention                                  participating.
(promotion of safe sex,
distribution of condoms)                             Supervision of subproject
activities                                           activities is sufficient to
ensure quality execution.
Increase the coverage of peer
group IEC events (one-on-one                         Capacity among implementers
or small groups) by 10%                              is sufficient to implement
annually among high risk                             proposed subprojecis.
groups:
CSW                                                Target groups can be easily
Miners                                             reached by NGOs arid
High school students                               implementing entities.
Uniformed men
The logistics of setting up
Increase the number of                                sales outlets are manageable.
condoms distributed and sold                          The project generates the
by private/NGO sector by 20                           necessary demand.
percent annually
Physicians are interested in
Number of private physicians                          receiving training and
trained on the use of STI kits                        demand for STI kits increases.
increases by 200 annually.
The proportion of subprojects                         Facilitators and NGCls are
implemented, meeting their                            able to prepare realistic
stated objectives will increase                      subprojects.
by 10% every year.
2. Sectoral strategies and  By end of year 1, all sectors   Project data.        Public, private and NGO
action plans developed and    have developed sector studies.                    sectors work closely together
pilot activities implemented                                                     as partners in each sector.
with results incorporated back
into sector strategies.   By end of year 2, all 8 sectors
have piloted at least 1
sub-project.
By end of project, each sector
will have mainstreamed at
least I of the pilot projects.
3. A monitoring and       The MIS is fully operational  Site visits.             Data and information
evaluation system provides    by the end of year 1.                              collected and analyzed from
information for improved                                                         MIS system is applied for
project efficiency and    Data on target groups covered                          policy development quality
effectiveness.            is used to define funding                              enhancement of project.
- 26 -



priorities for the subsequent
year.
4. Project activities have been Bank procurenment processes Project reports, random  Skills learned during training
implemented in a timely and  have been followed on all    site-visits, supervision.  are applied.
effective manner.         contracts by 2005.
Capacity of the UGP is
The UGP has been effective in Supervision missions.  sufficient.
coordinating with all key
players (as measured by the
Index contained in the
Procedures Manual).
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Financial Assistance to   US$ 2.2 million         Project information system  Multi-sector coordination and
Sector Plans Development                                                        collaboration is sufficient to
and Pilots                                                                      produce viable sector plans.
2. Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS   US$ 15.0 million          Project information system    The purpose of the project and
Prevention Activities                                                           the fund is adequately
disseminated.
3. Monitoring and Evaluation US$ 1.8 million         Project information system  A sufficient number of
capable M&E specialists are
available in Madagascar.
4. Project Management and   US$ 2.0 million          Project information system    The project is disbursing as
Institutional and                                                               projected.
Organizational Capacity
Building
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STIIHIV/AIDS Prevention Project
The activities of this project fall within the framework of the National Strategic Plan that has the objective
of reducing the prevalence of STl/HIV/AIDS and ensuring the treatment of people living with HIV/AIDS,.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.20 million
Financial Assistance to Sector Plans Development and Pilots
The development of these sector plans for the prevention of HIV/AIDS is critical to the multisectoral
approach as highlighted by the MAP. The objective of this component is to finance the development of
sector strategies and operational plans for eight key sectors (as seen in the table below). This will be
facilitated by the BCN, assisted by the UNAIDS theme group. The goal of these strategies is to ensure: (a)
the preparation of action plans that are feasible and sustainable, at the regional and national levels; (b) th,-
creation of a synergy and complementarity of activities of each sector and within the framework of a
multisectoral approach; and (c) the involvement of all key sectoral partners in the development process,
including private, public and NGO representatives. At present, the BCN is forming sectoral committees (CS
) made up of these sectoral partners. Once the action plans have been developed, activities to be financed as
pilots will be identified. These pilot sub-projects should function as the comerstone of the sector strategy
and guide development of sectoral best practices. Experiences, information and data collected during and
following the implementation of the pilot sub-projects will serve to re-orient and strengthen the strategy. An
unallocated amount of about US$ 800,000 is reserved for those activities that can be scaled up. Public
sector activities can be financed under this component, but will be closely coordinated with the ongoing
Bank-supported sectoral projects that allocate funds to HIV/AIDS activites such as: the Health Sector
project CRESAN II (US$ 5 million), the Rural Transport project and the Education project (CRESED).
This component will finance: (i) workshops; (ii) focus group discussions; (iii) pilot projects; (iv)
unallocated amount of US$800,000 to finance scaling up activities in the sector action plans.
Sector                       Partners                              Risk Groups
Education         * Ministries of Primary and Secondary        Students, teachers, administrative
Education; Higher Education; Vocational &   personnel, trainees & trainers,
Technical Training                          parents
* Private schools and parent-teacher associations
* Private sector, NGOs and associations working
in education
Health            * Ministry of Health and other public institutions  Medical and administrative
* Private medical providers                  personnel, patients
* Private sector, NGOs and associations working
in health
Information, Culture * Ministry of Information, Culture and    Journalists, administrative
and Communication Communication                                personnel, artists, the general
. Private sector, NGOs and associations working  population
in information, culture and communication
Infrastructure    . Ministries of Public Works and Transport   Construction workers, builders,
- 28 -



* Private sector, NGOs and associations working  truck drivers, cargo workers, port
on infrastructure                            personnel, technical and
administrative personnel
Labor              * Ministry of Labor                          Workers, industrial employees,
* Labor unions                               employers, economic operators,
* Associations of industrial and economic    administrative personnel, high risk
operators                                    labor groups, such as tourism
* Private sector, NGOs and associations working  workers, craftsmen, miners, small
on labor issues                               commercial business people
Population         * Ministry of Population                     Youth, uneducated persons,
* Associations such as youth and sport clubs,    prostitutes, handicapped persons,
religious groups, etc                        the elderly
* Private sector and NGOs working on
'population issues
Rural Development * Public and private sector, NGOs and         Farmers, fishers, agricultural
associations working in rural development,    operators, researchers, students and
including agriculture, fisheries, water and forests,  trainees from the centers of
environment, scientific research              agricultural education,
administrative personnel
Security           a Ministries of Justice and Armed Forces      Prisoners, soldiers, officers, army
* Armed forces, national police, gendarmes,   and police personnel, security
security agents, penal and justice officers   agents, administrative personnel
. Private sector, NGOs and associations working
on security issues
Project Component 2 - US$15.00 million
STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention and non-medical Care-Taking Activities Fund
The project will create a mechanism to provide financial incentives to correct market inefficiencies in the
demand for, and provision, of prevention activities. On the demand side, there is a general lack of
knowledge about the virus, protection methods, and risks. On the other hand, there is a lack of human and
financial capacity to provide adequate services. The fund is expected to encourage greater private and
NGO sector participation in HIV/AIDS prevention activities, resulting in an increase in prevention at all
levels (national, regional and local) and across all high risk groups. In addition, capacity will be built and
strengthened in these institutions to ensure sustainability.
The Fund will finance:
a)     Sub-projects (mass media, workshops, peer group discussion, person to person events, counseling
and non-medical care-taking);
b)     Social marketing of condoms and STI kits;
c)     Marketing of the Fund and facilitation of subprojects;
d)     Operational costs of the Fund; and
e)     Strengthening the capacity of implementing entities.
There are two key groups of eligible beneficiaries: i) NGOs, CBOs and associations that already are
implementing activities in one or more of the above categories, but need support to scale up qualitatively
and quantitatively; and ii) existing entities that do not yet have the capacity to plan and implement
- 29 -



HIV/AIDS prevention activities.
Given the weak capacity of implementing entities, facilitators will be contracted by the UGP to provide
assistance to applicants to ensure that their proposal meets the project objectives and that they have the
capacity to implement the proposed activities. NGOs and other institutions engaged as facilitators for a
particular sub-project may not be involved in the implementation of that sub-project.
Operation of the Fund
The management of the Fund will be contracted out by the UGP to a Financial Management Agency
(FMA) using a performance-based contract. The FMA will have representatives in each region and will be
responsible for (i) processing requests for financing; (ii) approving requests under $100,000 using select on
criteria; (iii) submitting requests above $100,000 to the Conseil for approval; (iv) notifying applicants of
financing decisions; (v) disbursing approved financing; and (vi) providing necessary data and information
to auditors for annual technical and financial reports, and to UGP on a regular basis. The FMA will recei ve
training on HIV/AIDS.
Proposals under US$100,000 will be automatically approved by the regional office of the FMA according
to agreed upon criteria, as outlined in the Procedural Manual. Proposals over US$100,000 will be
submitted by the regional office of the FMA to the Conseil for approval after technical review by the
technical sub-committee of the UNAIDS theme group. In all cases, the regional office of the FMA is
responsible for contracting the implementation of the approved project and disbursing approved financing.
All proposals over $25,000 and a sub-set of proposals over $10,000 will be submitted for technical review
to designated partners of the UNAIDS theme group "elargie'. A list of these partners will be finalized
before effectiveness.
At least 10% of the financing of the proposals must be provided by beneficiaries in cash or in kind.
The facilitators and the FMA will provide information and data to regular technical and financial audits
and conduct spot checks on project implementation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.80 million
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
This component will focus on three general areas: (a) monitoring of project progress (inputs and outputs);
(b) evaluation of the impact of project activities; and (c) providing support to the studies to be conducted
under Component 1.
Monitoring and evaluation will follow-up activities financed through subprojects (including the
implementation of sector plans) and assess their effects on beneficiaries, including both the targeted
population and the implementing entities, and on the effectiveness and efficiency of the operation of the
Fund and the project as a whole.
Monitoring: The project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management
information system (MIS) based in the UGP, containing key technical and financial input and process
information for the project. Data to measure progress of Fund activities will be derived from sub-project
proposals and progress reports. Community inputs will provide information on the quality of services
provided and will give project activities greater transparency and accountability. Data from sectoral
strategies will be derived from sectoral plans. Site visits by contracted supervisors will complement this
- 30 -



information. Field supervision will be formative, ensuring errors and omissions are corrected on the spot.
Project monitoring will also assess the project implementation team's performance as well as the
performance of the FMA and its regional offices. The MIS will contain information on number of
contracts, types of activities financed, time taken to approve proposals and provide financing, amount of
financing allocated to each target group/region, etc. In addition, financial audits of the FMA will be
conducted twice a year and independent technical audits on project as a whole.
Evaluation: Overall evaluation of the project will be focused on two levels: the general population, and
specific target groups. Where possible, available data will be employed. In order to measure overall
impact of all prevention activities (including those conducted by other projects) sentinel surveillance will be
employed. Since efforts are ongoing to strengthen the weak surveillance system, the measurement of
impact of the project will focus on more intermediate variables such as behavioral change. Efforts are
being made to strengthen the surveillance system. Data from available surveys (DHS, MICS) will be used
to measure behavioral change and knowledge. In addition, baseline and endline KAPB surveys will be
conducted in restricted populations to measure more in-depth behavior change in specific target groups.
Four target groups will be selected. Evaluation studies would be subcontracted out. The UGP would work
closely with the contractor as counterpart to ensure adequate coordination.
Support to Component 1 (sectoral pilot studies): Responding effectively also requires the identification
of effective approaches through carefully designed pilots and operations research studies, including both
demonstration projects to fine-tune specific interventions, and quasi-experimental testing of 2 or 3 service
delivery altematives. Approximately 12 small pilot and operations research projects would be designed and
implemented to identify and fine-tune interventions to be scaled up through sectoral plans.
Project Component 4 - US$2.00 million
Program Management and Strengthening of Institutional and Organizational Capacity
Program Management: The project will finance the UGP personnel, equipment, operational costs and
periodic technical assistance.
Capacity Building: The project supports the capacity building activities of the UNAIDS theme group's
Inter-Agency Program for the CCN and its executive office, the BCN, in addition to the capacity building
interventions for the UGP and the Conseil du PMPS and all implementing agencies. The project will (i)
assist the CCN to enhance the analytical basis for the National Strategic Plan, (ii) promote the expansion of
membership to include representatives from NGOs, the private sector, beneficiaries and academics, and (iii)
provide technical assistance. The BCN's capacity will be strengthened by (i) key personnel for public
relations and communications; (ii) office equipment; (iii) training and study tours; and (iv) technical
assistance. The Conseil du PMPS institutional capacity will be built by: (i) clearly defining its modus
operandi (decision-making processes, moderation skills, and consensus seeking); and (ii) establishing a core
group of permanent delegates, including NGOs and beneficiaries, in order to create ownership,
responsibility and decisive participation in the Conseil's decision-making process. The areas of capacity
strengthening of the UGP include: (i) program management, coordination and administrative tasks; (ii)
advocacy and awareness creation; (iii) training of trainers and technical support; and (iv) situation
assessment, monitoring and evaluation. NGO capacity will be built under Component 2 (the Fund) and
emphasizes learning, application, mentoring, and adjustment. The implementing agencies' overhead costs
will be included in their contract with the FMA to give them the opportunity to hire additional personnel
and acquire more equipment.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STIIHIVIAIDS Prevention Project
Project Cost by Component           Local             Foreign           Total
US$ million       US$ million       US$ million
1. Financial Assistance to           2.00               0.00            2.00
Sector Development Plans
and Pilots
2. Fund Financing Sub-                11.20              2.70            13.90
projects
3. Monitoring and Evaluation          0.90               0.60             1.50
4. Program Management and
Institutional Capacity             1.30              0.50             1.80
Building
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies              15.40               3.80            19.20
Price Contingencies                  0.50               0.10             0.60
1.10              0.10             1.20
Total Project Costs'                     17.00               4.00           21.00
Total Financing Required                 16.00               4.00           20.00
Project Cost by Component           Local             Foreign           Total
US$ million       US$ million       US$ million
Goods                                 0.40               2.70             3.10
Works                                 0.00               0.00             0.00
Services                              5.00               1.30             6.30
Training                              0.60               0.00             0.60
Fund                                  10.70              0.00            10.70
Operational Costs                     0.30               0.00             0.30
Total Project Costs'                     17.00               4.00           21.00
Total Financing Required                 16.00               4.00           20.00
This includes Government counterpart funds.
' Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 21 (US$m).
Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 95.24% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 32 -



Annex 4
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIVIAIDS Prevention Project
Benefit Analysis Summary
An economic analysis of the impact of HIV/AIDS and a cost-benefit analysis of the Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS project prepared under the Multi-Country AIDS Program was discussed in Annex 5 of the
Project Appraisal Document of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region.
There are no quantitative estimates of the potential impact of HIV/AIDS on economic growth, income
distribution and poverty specifically for Madagascar. Nevertheless, regional experiences provide stark
indications of the potential catastrophe that would result from the impact of HIV/AIDS, if it were to
become a generalized epidemic with high prevalence rates common in Eastem and Southern Africa. A
quick review of the relationship and potential impact of HIV/AIDS on the economy and poverty in
Madagascar was carried by UNAIDS in April 2001. The report of the review identified the following
potential impacts on economic growth (UNAIDS, mimeo April 2001):
Health sector. The fiscal cost of HIV/AIDS is also significant, particularly in the health sector. Even with
drastically reduced drug costs, one year of basic treatment for a person with HIV/AIDS costs far more than
the estimated GDP per capita in Madagascar, which was US$240 in 1999. This is for medical costs alone.
AIDS cases will crowd out most of the other needs as a percentage of health sector expenditures, resulting
in even poorer access to essential health services. The health care system be stretched beyond its limit as it
deals with a growing number of AIDS patients and the loss of health personnel to illness and death.
A.iculture sector: Agriculture accounted for 30% of the GDP and 70% of export eamings of Madagascar
in 1999. An unchecked epidemic of HIV/AIDS would, as in high-prevalence countries in Africa, result in
reduced cultivation of cash crops and food products, with serious impact in a country that is not only
dependent on agriculture for export earnings but also food insecure. Such negative effects have been
documented in market gardening in the Burkina Faso and cotton, coffee and cocoa plantations in parts of
Cote d'lvoire.
Business and enterprises: Services accounted for 56.2% of Madagascar's economic output in 1999.
Through its impact on the labor force, HIV/AIDS reduces productivity. If the prevalence of HIV became
high in Madagascar, AIDS would exert its negative impact on the profit margin through increased
absenteeism, lower productivity, and higher overtime costs for workers obliged to work longer hours to fill
in for sick colleagues. The costs of social benefits related to I1V/AIDS would also tend to rise sharply,
due to funerals and health care costs.
Education sector: In high-prevalence countries, AIDS disrupts the educational system and so undermines
the social capital of the country. In some countries with more advanced epidemics, more than 30 percent of
teachers are affected. A faltering education system reduces human capital for the future in every sector.
For Madagascar, it will mean an erosion of the supply of teachers, increase in class sizes and a likely
reduction in the quality of education.
Orphans: Studies in Uganda have shown that following the death of one or both parents, the chance of
orphans going to school is reduced by 50 percent. Orphans also face an increased risk of stunting and
malnutrition - a potentially serious threat to Madagascar, which already has a child malnutrition rate of
about 40 percent.
See also paragraphs 76-78 of the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
for the Africa Region (Report no. 20727 AFR).
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Year           2  | Year 2    | Year 3   | Year 4   | Year5  Y 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.5        3.6        4.8         5.7        3.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.1         0.2        0.4        0.3        0.2        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.6        3.8         5.2        6.0        3.4        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              2.63       3.78       5.25        6.03       3.31        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  2.50        3.60       5.00       5.75       3.15       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.13        0.18       0.25       0.28       0.16       0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing     2.63        3.78       5.25       6.03       3.31       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The project is largely investment costs with only minor recurrent cost. It is assumed the BCN will take over the
UGPs role at the end of the project, which will then integrate the personnel needed for the continuation. The
BCN is currently being financed by the HIPC funds and other donor contributions. The project will finance
activities to be implemented by existing structures and will strengthen their capacity in order to ensure
sustainability.
- 34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Procurement
1.    A new Procurement Code was issued in 1998 and the Bank ascertained that deficient features
identified in the 1995 CPAR have been properly addressed. No special exceptions, permits or licences need
to be specified in the Credit docurnents for international competitive bidding since Madagascar
procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions of local
regulations.
2.    Goods fmanced under IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credit (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for both ICB
and NCB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with
the Madagascar's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. For
NCB procedures, the Government gave assurance during negotiations that the following principles would
be adhered to: (i) all bids would be in one envelope which would be opened in public; (ii) a point system is
not used for bid evaluation for works and methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are
made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (iii) any bidder is given adequate response time
(four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iv) bid evaluation and bidder qualification criteria are
clearly specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and not be applied arbitrarily; (v) eligible firms are
not precluded from participation; (vi) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and
suppliers; (vii) award would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and
transparent methods; (viii) bid evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to reject any
non-responsive bid and (ix) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents
prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable
3.    The procedures followed, and total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under the project
wvill be reviewed after six months of project operations. Depending on performance and the results of the
review, the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary. Standard request forms and
establishment of guidelines for conduction the shopping methods (as per the June 9, 2000 Memorandum
Guidance on Shopping) should be prepared and included in the project's Manual of Procedures.
4.    Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for the selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrower (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposals as developed by the
Bank will be used for the selection of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assigments, i.e. those not exceeding six months. The government, and the project staff will be briefed
about the features of the new consultant Guidelines, in particular with respect to advertisement, bid opening
and the various steps of IDA reviews.
5.    Community participation in procurement will be based on the Bank Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments. The Bank Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments will be used in the design of
procurement under this aspect of the project. The UGP will be responsible for ensuring compliance with
these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank
- 35 -



and independent consultants appointed by the UGP. Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures
for community-based programs, including the positive list of items qualifying under this component will be
developed and included in the project's Manual of Procedures. The manual of procedures will also include,
procedures for IDA review thresholds for NGOs, private sector, and other community initiatives.
6.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year of operations will be prepared and issuec
in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB), as well as in the local newspaper to advertise for
any ICB for goods and for major consulting assignments to obtain expressions of interest. The detailed
GPN for the subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in the UNDB. It will be
updated annually for all outstanding procurement. Specific Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest
(EOI) will be prepared for the individual procurement actions where necessary.
7.    The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A below. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized
in Table B below.
8.    Goods. The total cost of goods is estimated at US$3.1 million for the project. Procurement of
goods will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more per contract
and will be procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) up to an aggregate of
US$2,000,000. Preference for domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World
Bank Guidelines. Contracts for vehicles, bicycles and IEC materials locally available which cost more than
US$20,000 but less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of USD$0.5 rnillion would be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of instructional
materials, computers and accessories, office equipment, and off the shelf items IEC and other instructional
materials, computers and accessories, costing less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$400,000 equivalent will be procured through prudent Shopping and National Shopping in accordance
with provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Procurement of proprietary nature costing less
than US$ 1,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured directly from manufacturers and authorized local
distributors.
9.    To facilitate speedy procurement of items required urgently for institutional strengthening, drugs,
medical supplies, kits, and condoms costing less than US$30,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000, may be procured from the United Nations Agencies (i.e. UNFPA; UNICEF; WHO; WFP;
[APSO) in accordance with para. 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. The list of these items and their
estimated value should be agreed upon with IDA as per approved Procurement Plan. The procurement arcd
timely distribution of the goods will be the responsibility of the UGP.
10.   Community Grants. The project will finance HIV/AIDS-related activities, such as IEC,
awareness creation, training, HIV/AIDS prevention promotion, capacity building, condoms and STI-kits
distribution etc. Funding for these activities will be in the form of grants. Beneficiaries will contribute 10 c
in cash or in kind.
11.   Work programs under the proposals will depend on applications received from communities,
NGOs, line departnents and private organizations against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to
determine the exact mix of goods, small works, and services to be procured under these activities due to
their demand driven nature. Therefore, the types of expenditures to be financed under these activities and
their procurement details will depend on the needs identified by communities.
12.   Small Civil Works. No large Civil works are scheduled under the project's life. Small civil
- 36 -



works related to the rehabilitation of and minor extensions to existing constructions could be part of
proposals for the Fund's grant financing, but will not exceed a maximum of US$ 1,000 per proposal up to
an aggregate amount of US$250,000. Since those small civil works scattered throughout the country are
unlikely to attract foreign contractors, they would be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors invited to bid and awarded under lump sum, fixed-priced contracts.
The invitation to bid will include a detailed description of the work including basic relevant drawings were
applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required works, provided he demonstrates he has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
13.   Condoms and STI kits accessibility, availability, and distribution are one of the most critical
component of an HIV/AIDS prevention program. USAID together with other partners including the World
Bank are already supporting condoms social marketing respectively through the AIDSMARK, and
CRESAN II projects. Both partners are using Populations Services International (PSI) 25,000 sales
distribution points established in Madagascar to reach the beneficiaries. PSI may be recruited on a
sole-source basis (if acceptable to use sole-source selection) for the marketing and distribution of condoms
and STI kits supplied by specialized UNAID agencies like IJNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, WFP, and LAPSO.
14.   Consultants Services. The consulting services required will be mostly in the areas of HIV/AIDS
education, IEC/BCC, training, community development, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
information dissemination, auditing. The exact type of consultancy, budgets, and applicable procurement
methods will be discussed and agreed annually during joint reviews. In general, consultants will be hired
through competition based on: (i) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) among qualified short-listed
firms, by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluation, by weighting
and adding the quality and cost scores; (ii) Least-Cost Selection (LSC) in accordance with para. 3.1 and
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, will be used for audit contracts costing less than US$100,000; the firm
with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark; (iii)
Selection based on consultant's qualifications; or Selection of Individual Consultants (which consist in
comparing at least 3 qualified individuals) for assignments that meet criteria set out in para 5.1, 5.2, and
5.3 of the guidelines and may be used for the selection of research institutes; training institutions; and for
assignments that meet criteria set out in para.3.7 of the guidelines.
15.   To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-list for contracts estimated to cost under US$ 100.00 or equivalent, may be comprised entirely of
national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of para. 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided
that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least 3) are available at competitive costs. However, if
foreign firms have expressed the interest, they will not be excluded form consideration. The Standard
Request for Proposals (RFP) as developed by the World Bank will be used for requesting proposals, and
for selection and appointment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts may be used for short-term
assignment (less than 6 months).
- 37 -



Training, workshops, and study tours
16.    The total cost of these activities is estimated at US$570,000 for the project. Training, workshops,
conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis of annual programs that will identijfr
the general framework of training or similar activities for the year, including the nature of training/study
tours/workshops, the number of participants, and cost estimates. Training outside the country are subjec
to IDA approval. No "degree" training will be eligible for training. Post-reviews of in-country training wiLl
be conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course contents/trainees and
justification thereof, and cost incurred.
IDA Reviews
17.   IDA-financed contracts for goods above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Draft standard bidding document format for NCB will be
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for recruitment of
consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference
of such contracts regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature, or to
amendments of contracts rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultants
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000, but more than US$50,000, opening the financial
envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions proposed
18.    Once every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits) . Post
Reviews will apply to one contract out of four (4) not subject to prior review. Also the first three (3) NCB3
contracts and five grant contracts will be subject to prior review. Documents related to procurement
below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Executing Agency for ex-post reviews by
auditors and IDA supervision missions.
- 38 -



Procurement Implementation Arrangements
19.    The UGP was established to ensure the day-to-day management of the project. It will share key
data and analysis with the CCN through the BCN. The UGP's responsibilities include: (i) development of
the annual work program and budget; (ii) financial management oversight of project components and the
FMA; (iii) procurement and disbursement activities; (iv) oversight of the monitoring and evaluation
(contracted out locally) of the project; and (v) assuming the role of secretariat of the Conseil.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
20.    A procurement capacity assessment was conducted during project's appraisal, and the findings are
highlighted in the capacity assessment matrix attached. During negotiations, assurances were given that the
project implementation unit (UGP) will (a) recruit a procurement specialist; (b) submit a draft procurement
plan for the first year acceptable to IDA; and (c) give assurance that it will (i) apply the agreed
procurement procedures and arrangements; (ii) use the Bank's standard bidding documents; and (iii)
annually review the procurement plan with IDA.
Project Manual of Procedures:
Procurement
21.    The project's implementation manual prepared by the Borrower will include specification on
procurement activities to be carried out under the project, including the Fund: (i) procedures for planning;
calling for bids; selecting contractors; consultants and vendors; and awarding contracts; (ii) internal
organization for supervision and control or works; (iii) procedures for handling over completed works.
22.    Prior to effectiveness, the Government will recruit a procurement specialist. During negotiations
the Government should (a) submit to IDA a draft procurement plan for the first year; and (b) give
assurance that it will (i) apply the agreed procurement procedures and arrangements; (ii) use the Bank's
standard bidding documents; and (iii) annually review the procurement plan with IDA.
Procurement Process
Stages                                      Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents             4 (6 weeks large contracts)
Preparation of proposals by potential bidders  4 (6-10 for ICB)
Evaluation of proposals                      2 (4 for large contracts)
Signing of contracts                         2
Payments                                     4
Reinforcement of Procurement Capacities
Action Plan for Strengthening Procurement Capacities
Tasks                                      Responsibility  Due Date
Recruitment of Procurement Specialist      UGP           By project effectiveness
Training of UGP Staff involved in procurement  UGP       By project effectiveness
Preparation of first three (3) NCB contracts and   UGP   By project effectiveness
five grant contracts
Establishment of a filing system           UGP           By project effectiveness
- 39 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure      ICB         NCB        Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
Category
1. Works           0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
(0 .00)    (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods           2.00        0.50        0.62         0.00        3.12
(2.00)     (0.50)       (0.60)      (0.00       (3.10)
3. Services        0.00        0.00        6.31         0.00        6.31
Consultants and    (0.00)     (0.00)       (5.45)      (0.00)      (5.45)
studies                                             _
4.Operating        0.00        0.00        0.33         0.00        0.33
Costs             (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.28)      (0.00)      (0.28)
5. Fund-           0.00        0.00        10.67        0.00        10.67
(0.00)     (0.00)      (10.67)      (0.00)      (10.67)
6. Training        0.00        0.00        0.57         0.00        0.57
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.50)      (0.00       (0.50)
Total              2.00        0.50        18.50        0.00       21.00
(2.50)     (0.50)      (17.50)      (0.00)      (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All
costs include contingencies
2     Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, UN
Agencies, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local government units.
3     Community grants include US$250,000 in small civil works contracts.
Community grants contributions from beneficiaries are only provisional
estimates based on information available to date.
-40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                    Approx. 1,000             quotations              US$ 0,25
(Post Review)
2. Goods                      > 100,000                 ICB                 US$ 1,0 million
(Prior Review)
>20,000 and <100,000           NCB                 US$ 0,5 million
< 20,000                                      (Post Review)
Quotations            US$ 0,5 rmillion
(Post Review)
3. Services
Firms                        > 100,000                 QCBS                 US$ 0,4 million
(Prior Review)
Individuals                   > 50,000             Qualification &          US$ 1,6 million
3 CVs                (Post Review)
4. Miscellaneous               < 5,000               Quotations              Post Review
Fund
>5,000 and <20,000          Quotations             Post Review
>20,000 and <100,000           NCB                  Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$1.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 41 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA Credit would be fully disbursed ov er a
period of four years (from July 1, 2002 to June 30, 2006). The Credit closing date would be six months
after the fourth year (December 31, 2006) to allow payment of last invoices for contracts completed before
the completion time. Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the disbursement
Handbook and in accordance with all relevant Bank operational policies and guidelines. All applications to
withdraw from the Credit would be fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior review bv
IMA for which reimbursement may be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The
Project Coordination Unit would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and SOEs to be
submitted to IDA, and would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of any goods and the payment
date. Supporting documentation for all SOEs would be retained along with all other supporting
documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors. A review of the ability
to process SOEs, retain documentation for field review and that satisfactory controls are in place
minimizing the risk of use of IDA funds for non-project expenditures was conducted during appraisal.
Special Account. To ensure that funds would be available when needed, the Government would open two
Special Accounts in US$ in a commercial bank under conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation would be US$ 600,000 for Special Account A and US$ 800,000 for Special Account B,
representing about 4 months of disbursement. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$ 300,000 in
Special Account A and US$ 400,000 in Special Account B, upon credit effectiveness. Once disbursements
through the Special Accounts would have totaled US$1.6 million SDR equivalent each, the fully authorized
amount would be paid. One Special account would be managed by the UGP and one by the FMA.
Sufficient capacity would exist at that level to manage funds in accordance with Bank procedures. Local
accountants would receive proper training during field visits from the central project authorities to
periodically review use of special account funds at the local levels.
Project Account. Government's counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to cover its share of project
investment and recurrent costs would be deposited by the Govermment in a Project Account not later than
January 31 each year and before effectiveness first year. The Project Account would be opened in a local.
commercial bank and managed by the Project Coordination Unit.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount In US$mlillion       Financing Percentage
Goods                                     2.60                 100% foreign, 80% local
Services (consultants and studies)        4.20                100% foreign, 80% local
Fund                                      9.80                 100% of grant amounts
Training                                  0.50                      100% total
Operational Costs                         0.30                       85% total
PPF Repayment                             0.60                      Amount due
Unallocated                               2.00
Total Project Costs                       20.00
Total                                     20.00
-42-



Financial Management Assessment Revort
Executive Summary
The assessment carried out during appraisal by an IDA accredited specialist focused on the UGP's
financial management system. The FMA, designed to manage the funds under the component 2 is not
identified yet. It will be selected on a competitive basis and its capacity and systems will be assessed before
credit effectiveness to determine whether they meet the requirements of sound financial management.
The assessment of the UGP's financial management system determnined that the arrangements in place meet
the Bank's minimum requirements with respect to basic accounting system and intemal controls but further
strengthening is needed to improve its performance. In addition the system cannot produce yet quarterly
Reports for Financial Monitoring required by the Bank. The following measures will be taken prior to
credit effectiveness to strengthen the UGP's financial management system: i) review of the existing Chart
of accounts to reflect activities outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and satisfy reporting
requirements; ii) recruitment of a second accountant to ensure adequate separation of duties between the
accounting staff (recording of transactions, controls, supervision); iii) finalization of the accounting manual
of procedures and organization of user's training to facilitate record-keeping and ensure consistent
application of control procedures described in the manual; iii) recruitment of an audit firm acceptable to
IDA to audit the project accounts; iv) recruitment of a FMA (Financial Management Agency) to handle
funds fmancing activities under the component 2. An agreed action plan by the borrower has been also
developed to build the UGP's capacity (implementation and use of computerized system) to produce
quarterly FMRs even the project opted for traditional disbursement procedures. The computerized system
(MIS) will be operational by November 2002.
Summary Project Description
The project contributes to financing the NSP (National Strategic Plan) to reduce the prevalence of
STI/HLV/AIDS and ensuring the treatment of people living with it. It consists of four components:
.     Development of key sector strategies and sector action plans, andfinancing ofpiot projects:
the objective of this component is to develop sector strategies and operational plans for eight sectors (as
seen in the table below) using a clear methodology developed under the PPF and subsequently, refine them
based on the experiences and results of the pilot sub-projects.
2.    A Fund tofinance existing and new HIV/AIDSpreventive sub-projects: this fund is expected to
encourage greater private and NGO sector participation in HIV/AIDS prevention activities, resulting in an
increase in prevention at all levels (national, regional and local) and across all high risk groups. In addition,
capacity will be built and strengthened in these institutions to ensure sustainability.
3.    A Monitoring and Evaluation system: The focus of this component is threefold: (i) monitor
project activities; (ii) evaluate the impact of project activities; and (iii) provide support for the studies to be
conducted under Component 2. M&E activities will address three areas: inputs and effects of sub-project
activities on beneficiaries (high risk groups and the general population), inputs and effects of capacity
building on service providers (fund recipients) and the effectiveness and efficiency of the operation of the
Fund and the project as a whole.
- 43 -



4.    Project Management and Capacity Building
Country issues
The capacity of the accounting profession in Madagascar remains weak. A number of accounting firms
were operating below the international standards due to the lack of regulatory framework, proper
accounting and auditing standards, clearly defined guidelines and procedures for systematic peer reviews.
continuing education requirements, quality control mechanisms to harmonize methodology. As a result cf
this diagnostic, the following measures have been taken to improve the capacity and the competitiveness of
the local auditing firms: i) inclusion of a component "Reinforcement of Accounting profession" in the
Poverty Reduction and Institutional Development Technical Assistant Project, in preparation and expected
to be presented to the Board by September 2002; ii) association of local auditors with international
accounting firms while auditing Bank/IDA financed projects in order to improve the quality of audit reports
and ensure practical training and real transfer of methodology and approach in the areas of organization
and execution of audit assignments; iii) for the recruitment of auditors, the QCBS method will be used
rather than Least Cost selection; iv) quarterly technical and financial audit of sub-projects will be carrie d
out by external auditors.
Risk Analysis
Risks                                 Risk rating        Risk Mitigation Measures
Implementing Entity                   Low                N/A
Funds Flow                            Substantial        FMA and M&E staffjoint
review with auditors
Staffing                             Low                 N/A
Accounting Policies and Procedures    Low                N/A
Internal Audit                       Low                 N/A
External Audit                       Substantial         -Association of local
auditors with interna-
tional auditing firm;
- Recruitment of auditors
based on QCBS;
- Quarterly technical and
financial audit
Monitoring and Reporting             Low                 N/A
Information Systems                   Low                N/A
Strengths and weaknesses
Organizational structure
The Board of Directors chaired by the "Directeur du Cabinet" of the Office of the Prime Minister, is
responsible for overall program orientation and implementation.
The Audit Committee is composed of three members: a representative of the "Direction de l'Inspection
Generale des Finances", a Chartered accountant member of the "Ordre des Experts comptables de
Madagascar" and a NGOs representative. Its functions are the following: facilitate the realization of
external audit, analyze the audit reports and propose corrective actions to address issues, follow-up on
- 44 -



implementation of corrective actions and recommend punctual audits.
The UGP ensures the day to day execution of MSPP activities and reports directly to the Board of
Directors which reviews and approves the annual work program, implementation results and outcomes, and
the budget. It is directly responsible for: (i) development of the annual work program and budget; (ii)
financial management of components 1, 3 and 4; iii) financial management oversight of the Financial
Management Agency (FMA) in charge of funds financing the component 2; iii) the consolidation of project
accounts and the production of annual financial statements and quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) in compliance with international accounting standards and IDA requirements; (iv) procurement
and disbursement activities; and (v) oversight of the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
The UGP's organizational structure (see Annex 1) is appropriate for planning, directing and controlling
operations. The mission has noticed the existence of a clear definition of authority, responsibility
assignments and proper segregation of duties (authorization, custody and accounting).
Accounting and budgeting system.
The accounting system in place at the UGP uses journals, ledgers and trial balance to enter and summarize
transactions. It operates on a double entry accrual principles and follows intemationally accepted
accounting principles. The mission considers the current system (manual) being appropriate to: i) maintain
proper record-keeping; ii) produce the project basic financial statements; and iii) to manage budgeting,
including tracking variances between actual and planned cost and activities. However it cannot produce yet
quarterly FMR; the implementation and use of a computerized system is therefore needed to provide the
timely and reliable infortnation necessary for project decision taking and monitoring. This computerized
system would in particular facilitate: annual programming of activities and project resources, accounting,
financial and budgetary management of the project, procurement management, follow-up of project
implementation progress, monitoring of key indicators to assess the results and impact of the project,
preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports as required by the Bank/IDA. The consultant in
charge of the implementation of such system will be recruited in conformity with the Bank/IDA
procurement procedures. The review of the existing Chart of accounts is also required to: i) reflect
components and activities as outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD); ii) allow the production of
the financial information required for managing and monitoring the project.
-45.-



Internal control
Regarding internal control, the mission has noticed the existence of: i) proper authorization to initiate and
execute transactions; and ii) appropriate measures for safeguarding assets. In addition, the accountant
currently in place is qualified and has relevant experience in accounting. However to face the high volume
of transactions to be handled and ensure adequate separation of duties in financial management area, the
mission considers appropriate the recruitment of a second accountant by the UGP. The following measures
must be also taken to strengthen UGP's internal control: i) participation of the accounting staff in the
training session on financial management, organized in December 2001 by the Bank to improve his
knowledge of Bank procedures and performance; ii) finalization and implementation (including users
training) of the accounting manual of procedures, currently in preparation, to facilitate record-keeping,
ensure preparation of timely and accurate financial information and encourage consistent application of
control procedures by the staff. This accounting manual of procedures will describe: i) the project
organizational structure; ii) the configuration of the financial management and accounting system; ii) the
project's chart of accounts with more precision about transactions to be posted in each account; iii) the
main accounting principles to be used; iv) the format, content and periodicity of the various financial
reports to be submitted; v) the budgetary procedures and process (preparation, monitoring); vi) the
procurement process; vii) the control procedures (including accounting controls) to be applied for
safeguarding project assets and ensuring preparation of accurate financial information.
Significant Weaknesses                       Resolution
Inadequacy of the number of accountant(s) in  Recruitment of a second accountant to ensure
place (1) commensurate with the volume of    appropriate separation of duties in financial
transactions to be treated and absence of proper    management area (record-keeping, control,
separation of duties in financial management area.. supervision)
Chart of accounts not reflecting project     Review of the Chart of accounts in place to reflect
components and activities as outlined in the PAD. activities outlined in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) and satisfy reporting requirements.
Accounting manual of procedures not being    Finalization and implementation of the accounting
updated and not providing sufficient         manual of procedures actually in preparation and
information to facilitate adequate           training of the project staff on the use of procedures
record-keeping and ensure preparation of     described in this manual.
timely and reliable financial information.
Absence of acceptable arrangement in         Recruitment of an accounting firm acceptable to
auditing.                                    IDA to carry out the audit of project accounts.
Incapacity of the UGP' s financial           Recruitment of a consultant acceptable to IDA
management system to produce quarterly      in charge of the design and implementation
FMRs.                                        of a computerized system capable of producing
quarterly FMRs.
No agency has been recruited to manage       Recruitment of a Financial Management
the funds under the component 2.             Agency acceptable to IDA to manage the funds
under the component 2.
-46 -



Implementing Entities
Implementation of project activities under the component 2 (and one part of the component 1) will be
sub-contracted to existing structures such as NGOs, CBOs, private sector entities whereas the financial
management of funds financing these activities will be contracted to a FMA using a performance-based
contract. Procedures and modalities for selection and contracting of these entities are described in details in
the implementation manual. The FMA capacity and systems will be assessed prior to credit effectiveness.
As to NGOs, CBOs etc., having an adequate capacity is one of the eligible criteria. An assessment of their
capacity will be made at the time of review of the application. Eligible criteria and selection procedures are
described in details in the Fund procedures manual.
The UGP will be responsible for: i) project management; ii) oversight of project financial management; iii)
implementation of activities and record-keeping of transactions under the components 1 (one part), 3 and 4;
iv) the consolidation of project accounts and the production of annual financial statements and quarterly
Reports for Financial Monitoring (FMRs) in compliance with international accounting standards and IDA
requirements; and v) monitoring the progress of the project.
Funds Flow
The flow of funds from IDA credit is presented as follows:
World Bank
FMA Central level:                     UGP: Special Account A
Special Account B:                     (Components 1,3,4)
Funds(Component 2)
Grants to recipients (NGOs,       Part of
CBOs, private sector entities     CopntI
etc..) for provision of goods     Component 1
and services
Suppliers of goods and services
- 47 -



To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds, two special accounts will be opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA as follows:
The Special Account A will be managed by the UGP and will cover transactions related to
components 1, 3 and 4;
* The Special Account B (for Fund under component 1) will be managed by the FMA and will cover
transactions related to component 2;
The replenishment of the Special Account B should be based on periodic expenditure reports submitted by
FMA at the central level, justifying the use of funds, and accompanied by reconciled bank statement wbiL.e
supporting documents are kept by executing agencies (NGOs, CBOs, private entities etc.) where expenst. s
are incurred and paid for examination by extemal/intemal auditors and bank staff.
The initial advance to contractors (NGOs, CBOs, civil society, other organizations) will be made in
conformity with the terms of contract signed between the FMA and the contractors. Subsequent payments
will be based on review of periodic progress reports (financial and physical) submitted to PFMAs
(Provincial Financial Management Agencies) by the contractors and forwarded to FMA at the central level.
The project implementation and accounting manuals will describe in details all procedural aspects
regarding financial management (payments, replenishment, reporting, intemal control) and reference to the
procedures outlined in these manuals will be indicated in the DCA.
Funds deposited in Special account A will be used by the UGP to pay: i) the amount of grants allocated to
the executing agencies of the component 1; ii) suppliers of goods and services under the components 3 anqd
4.
Staffing
A second accountant will be hired to ensure record-keeping and assist the Chief accountant in place in
financial management area. The procurement specialist as well as monitoring and evaluation staff will be
also recruited. The recruitment of these key staff is a condition of effectiveness.
- 48 -



Accounting policies and Procedures
The Project is required to maintain records and books of accounts in accordance with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles. The accounting system operates on a double entry accrual principles. The financial
statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Project accounts will be maintained in Malagasy currency (FMG). As a result, the opening and closing
balances of the SA held in US$ should be translated therefore at the rate ruling on the opening and closing
dates, respectively. Expenditures made out of the SA should be stated at the rate ruling on the transaction
dates. The actual exchange rates used should be disclosed.
Procedures are not adopted to reflect the impact on the financial statements of specific price changes or
changes in the general level of prices.
Expenditures deemed to have been incurred by borrower communities in kind are included in the accounting
records at estimated cost value so as to reflect a fair valuation of the project's activities.
Fixed assets bought for use by an executing agency are expensed out directly upon payment whereas those
acquired for use by the UGP and FMA are depreciated at the following rates:
Construction: 5%
Furniture and equipment: 20%
Vehicles: 20%
Computers: 30%
Stock is valued at the lower of the estimated selling price and the actual cost. Consumable stores are
written off on purchase.
Internal Audit
To ensure the efficient use of funds by executing agencies, internal audit will be carried out jointly by the
PFMAs and the UGP Monitoring & Evaluation staff, on a selective basis. These audits should be
conducted in such a way that they cover every province/region in any one year and every executing agency
every two years. Capacity issues identified during internal audit should be addressed through training
provided by the FMA to weak executing agencies to improve their performance. The accounting staff at the
UGP will act also as an internal auditor through the supervision of the FMA financial management.
External Audit
The UGP and FMA financial statements will be audited annually by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The auditors will provide
separated opinion on the financial statements, the special accounts and statements of expenditures. The
auditors will be also required to carry out a comprehensive review of the intemal control procedures and
provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The audit report will
be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
In addition to the project's accounts audit and in coordination with technical auditors, the auditors will be
also requested to audit all sub-projects involving amounts greater than or equal to the equivalent of
US$25,000 and a representative sample of sub-projects of an amount less than the equivalent of
US$25,000. The sub-projects audit should examine whether: i) eligibility criteria defined in the MSPP
- 49 -



Operations Manual have been met in approving the sub-projects; ii) funds received by the executing
agencies have been used for the purpose intended; iii) all necessary supporting documents, records and
accounts have been kept by the executing agencies in respect of all sub-projects ventures. This audit should
be planned to cover systematically, at least once a year, all sub-projects for an amount greater than
US$25,000 whereas each small implementing agency will be audited every three years. External auditors
can use the results of the audit carried out by internal auditors if the quality of this audit is deemed
acceptable.
TIhe auditors should be recruited prior to credit effectiveness. The terms of reference of the audit will be
reviewed with the financial management specialist of the Bank/IDA.
Reporting and Monitoring
The chart of information flow is presented as follows:
UGP
For
component 2
Committee of             FMA Central level:
technical              Financial reports on the
partners              use of funds in the
Special Account B
Copy
Technical             PFMA: Provincial FMA
Partners          *  Offices Financial reports
on the use of funds
Quarterly
Progress Report
Part of
l       ~~Executing agencies   Component I
Facilitator       _  (NGOs, CBOs, private
Facilitators     |        < , sector entities etc..)
'These are financial reports submitted to the UGP, by its various operating and implementation partners: the
FMA and implementing agencies (NGOs), CBOs, private entities etc). But each PFMA prepares also
- 50 -



financial reports for the FMA at the central level to enhance control, monitoring, and communication about
what is happening on the ground.
The UGP's accounting system should be capable of producing the following reports:
1) Consolidated financial statements including: i) a Summary of sources and uses of funds by main
expenditures categories/ project activities; ii) a balance sheet;
2) Special Accounts statements;
3) Statement of Expenditures;
4) Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports including: Financial Reports, Physical Progress Reports
and Procurement Reports (a Contract Expenditure Report- Goods & Works, a Contract
Expenditure Report- Consultants, a Procurement Management Report- Goods & Works and a
Procurement Management Report- Consultants).
The FMA shall put in place a system of accounting capable of producing: i) annual basic financial
statement (summary of sources and uses of funds, special account statements and SOE statements); ii) the
following reports on a quarterly basis:
(1) Summary of Disbursements by category of recipient
(2) Schedule of movements of funds held by FMA
(3) List of non-disbursing, slow disbursing, and most active implementing partner/participating project
In addition the FMA will also produce its own:
* Capacity related reports
* Intemal audit reports
* Other reports on demand by the UGP
The executing agencies should produce quarterly reports on funds received and spent accompanied by
progress report. Samples of these financial reports will be presented in the project accounting manual of
procedures.
Information Systems
The project uses currently a manual financial management system capable of producing the project basic
financial statements and tracking variances between actual and planned cost and activities. However it
cannot produce yet quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports required by the Bank. To address this issue, the
project will recruit a consultant in charge of the design and implementation of a computerized accounting
system fully integrated with all other financial management systems in order to have a single , common
database for financial information. This computerized system would in particular facilitate: annual
progranmming of activities and project resources, accounting, financial and budgetary management of the
project, procurement management, follow-up of project implementation progress, monitoring of key
indicators to assess the results and impact of the project, preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring
Reports as required by the Bank/IDA. The new system will be functional by June 2002. The TORs of the
MIS will be reviewed by the Bank Financial Management Specialist.
Impact of procurement arrangements
High risk due to lack of experience of the project in procurement (see project assessment report). The Bank
staff will carry out periodic SOE review to ensure the use of funds in conformity with Bank procedures.
- 51 -



Disbursement Arrangements
Method of Disbursement:
The disbursements will be transaction-based (traditional mode) in accordance with procedures outlined in
the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Minimum of Application Size:
The minimrnum application size for direct payments, to be withdrawn directly from the Credit Account, and
special commitments is USD 80,000.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs):
Withdrawals are to be made on the basis of SOEs for the following cases:
(i) Goods contracts valued at less than USD 100,000
(ii) Consultants services valued for less than USD 100,000 and USD 50,000 for firms and individual
respectively
(iii) all operating costs
(iv) training
Special Accounts
To ensure that funds will be available when needed, two special accounts in US$800,000 will be
established in a local commercial bank under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The special account A, in the
amount of US$800,000, will be opened in the name of the UGP and the other (Special Account B) in the
amount of US$ will be in the narne of FMA. The arnounts have been estimated to cover about four months
of expenditures and would be withdrawn from the credit account after effectiveness. Upon effectiveness an
amount of US$ 400,000 will be advanced to the special account A and US$ 400,000 to special account B.
The balance of each initial deposit will be advanced, only when a total of SDR 200,000 equivalent have
been disbursed, or earlier if IDA so agrees.
The special accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence of payments required by
IDA, made from the special accounts, eligible for financing under IDA Credit. All SOEs supporting
documentation will be kept by the executing agencies and made available for review by bank supervision
missions and external auditors.
Action Plan
The present action plan which has already started describes main actions to be taken to strengthen the
MSPP financial management system and to build its capacity to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring
Reports. This action plan divides the actions to be taken in two categories: i) activities precedent to
effectiveness assumed to be April 2002; and those activities expected to be completed during the second
phase culminating in the production of FMRs.
- 52 -



Action                                                     Date due by       Responsible
Conditions of effectiveness
1  Agreement on terms of reference for consultant in charge of the  (COMPLETE)       UGP/IDA
implementation of the accounting manual of procedures.
2  Appointment of Consultant in charge of the implementation of the  (COMPLETED)     UGPIIDA
.accounting manual of procedures (with IDA no objection)
3   Consultant starts preparation of accounting and financial manual of              Consultant
procedures describing accounting systems and procedures, internal
controls and fund flow processes:
First draft for IDA comments
Final draft incorporating IDA comments                         11/20/2001
11/30/2001
4    Agreement on terms of reference for key staff,                 11/30/2001       UGP/IDA
external auditor and FMA, Consulting firm in charge of the design
and implementation of the MIS.
5  Appointment of key-staff                                        01/15/ 2002         UGP
Implementation of the manual of procedures and users training.  01/20/2002       Consultant,
6   Recruitment process of FMA:
Finalization of bidding documents;                            12/14/2001          UGP
Reception of bids, evaluation,                                02/05/2002          UGP
7   Recruitment process of Consulting firm in charge of the design and
implementation of the MIS:                                     12/21/2001         UGP
Finalization of bidding documents;                            02/20/2002          UGP
* Reception of bids, evaluation,
8    Recruitment process of extemal auditors:                                        UGP/IDA
Finalization of bidding documents;                          12/16/2001
Reception of bids, evaluation,                              02/07/2002
Appointment of FMA                                             02/15/2002       UGP/IDA
9   Appointment of Consulting firm in charge of the design and      03/01/2002       UGP/IDA
implementation of the MIS
10___
Appointment of External Auditors                                02/25/2002          UGP
11 Effectiveness                                                    April 2002
12 Installation of a computerized accounting system (MIS)..         06/30/2002       Consultant
13 System testing to ensure compliance with management's expectations  07/31/2002    Consultant
and IDA specifications:
Prepare test data and expected results;
Perform tests and analyze results;
Correct problems and retest.
14 Conversion, final testing and user'strainig:                    08/31/2002        Consultant
Complete systems documentation and training manuals;
Convert, verify files and data in the database and perform final
testing;
Complete user training and start operating the system;
Obtain user acceptance and approval                           09/02/2002          UGP
15 . Production of draft FMRs from the MIS                          09/30/2002      Consultant,
(April, May, June 2002) and corrective actions                                     UGP
16  Production of the first PMRs (July, Aug, Sept 2002) and submit them   November 2002  UGP
to the Bank
- 53 -



Conditions
Financial Management Conditions
Establishment of a financial management system acceptable to IDA; and existence of an
Accounting Manual of Procedures acceptable to IDA
Recruitment of external auditors acceptable to IDA
- Project account opened and counterpart funds deposited
Recruitment of the Financial Management Agency, acceptable to IDA
Financial Covenants
* The UGP and FMA shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures;
Records, accounts, special accounts, SOEs and sub-projects shall be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA;
Production of FMRs
Supervision Plan
* SOE review performed by Bank staff after one year implementation;
* Periodic review of implementation progress of sub-projects and comparison with disbursements.
- 54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STIIHIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             01/29/2001                   01/29/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     11/13/2001                   11/13/2001
Negotiations                                    11/20/2001                   11/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2002
Prepared by:
The Project has been prepared by a large multi-disciplinary team in collaboration with government
counterparts and development partners in Madagascar. The government counterpart team made up of
Jacqueline Rakotoarisoa, Alain Randriamaherisoa, Monique Andriamananoro, and Samuel
Andriamampionona. The Bank team was supported by Anne Bossuyt and Jean-Paul Peresson.
Preparation assistance:
A Quality Enhancement Review for the project was carried out on May 25, 2001. The QER Panel
consisted of Daniel Ritchie (Chair), Michael Merson (Yale School of Public Health), Fadia Saadah
(EAPVP) and Christopher Walker (HDNHE). The Panel met with Arvil van Adams (Sector Manager),
Claudia Rokx (Task Team Leader), Eva Jarawan (Senior Health Specialist), Kees Kostermans (Senior
Public Health Specialist), Sandra Rosenhouse (Senior Population and Health Specialist), Maryanne Sharp
(Operations Officer), Daniel Viens (Senior Education Specialist) and Jonathan Brown (AFRHV). The
Panel's report was taken into account in the PAD.
- 55 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality                             __|
Claudia Rokx                       Task Team Leader/Sr. Nutrition Specialist
Maryanne Sharp                     Co-Task Team Leader/Operations Officer
Jean-Pierre Manshande              Sr. Public Health Specialist
Sandra Rosenhouse                  Sr. Population & Health Specialist
Kate Kuper                         Private Sector Specialist
Henri Aka                          Procurement Specialist
Gervais Rakotoarimanana            Financial Management Specialist
Iraj Talai                         Lead Financial Management Specialist
Ziva Rakotoarimanana               Social Development Specialist
Susanne Holste                     Sr. Transport Specialist
Raj Soopramanien                   Sr. Counsel
Michael Fowler                     Sr. Disbursement Officer
Jonathan Brown                     Operations Advisor/ Quality Enhancement
Slaheddine Ben-Halima              Sr. Procurement Specialist
Sylvain Rambeleson                 Procurement Specialist
Luc Barriere                       UNAIDS
Olusoji Adeyi                      Peer Reviewer
Eva Jarawan                        Peer Reviewer
Kees Kostermans                    Peer Reviewer
Nellie Sew Kwan Kan                Language Program Assistant
Saholy Andriambolomanana           Program Assistant
- 56 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Draft Operational Manual
- Draft Procedural Manual for the Fund
- Draft Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank/Government aide memoires:
Identification Mission: January 2001
Pre-Appraisal Mission: June 2001
Technical Meetings: October 2001
Appraisal Mission: November 2001
PHRD Studies (when completed)
Institutional Capacity Assessment
NGO Capacity Assessment
Gender Study
Environmental Assessment
Sector Plan Development Methodology
Epidemiological Study
Behavior Studies
Hospital Safety Measures Study
C. Other
Madagascar Project Overview Documents
Gap Analysis
UNAIDS theme group Support Strategy
Cadre strategique du Plan National Multisectoriel de lutte contre les IST/VIHISIDA a Madagascar,
datexxx, (Document provisoire).
Madagascar HIV/AIDS related studies and activities of NGOs and civil societv
Projet de Lutte Contre Les MST/SIDA d Antananarivo et Tulear, Rapport d'Activites Annuel de Janvier a
Decembre 2000, Medecins du Monde, Mai 2001.
Recherches Operationnelles conduites d Antananarivo et Tamatave pour Ameliorer la Prevention et la
Prise en Charge des Infections Sexuellement Transmissibles (IST) chez les Travailleuses de Sexe ai
Madagascar, Ministere de la Sante, Impact, Family Health Intemational/Horizons, Population
CounciVUSAID, Mai 2001.
Sexually transmitted infections and associated socio-demographic and behaviouralfactors in women
seeking primary care suggest Madagascar's vulnerability to rapid HIV spread, Tropical Medicine and
- 57 -



International Health, Vol 6 No 3, March 2001.
Recherches qualitatives IEC/PF, Resume Executif; 6 regions, Ministere de la Sant6 et de la Population,
FNUAP, March 1996.
Meilleures pratiques et bonne coordination en matiere de prevention des IST/SIDA, Atelier des
Partenaires, 27-29 octobre 1999, PNLS/ONUSIDAIUSAID/JSI.
La capitale malgache en transition demographique, Resultats des enquetes demographique. Resultats des
enqu&es demographiques et de sante de 1992 et 1997 i Madagascar, Demographic and Health Surveys,
Macro International Inc., Juin 1999.
Evaluation de la qualite des soins au nivau des SSD beneficiaires de subventions dans les Faritany
d'Antananarivo et de Fianarantsoa, 1999-2000, Ministere de la Sante en collaboration avec USAID, JS[.
Annuaire des statistiques du secteur sante de Madagascar, 1999, Ministere de la Sante.
Enquete damographique et de sante, 1997, Direction de la Demographie et des Statistiques Sociales,
Institut national de la statistique.
Recherches qualitatives dans les dioceses de Fort Dauphin, Morondava et Tamatave dans le cadre de ,a
preparation d'un projet de prevention des IST/SIDA. Catholic Relief Services, Focus Development
Association, February 2001.
Evaluation des activites d'IEC sur les MST/SIDA aurpes desjeunes de 10 a 29 ans des regions de
Toliary et Toamasina, PNLS, UNICEF, May 1998.
Evaluation qualitative de li'mpact des activites des partenaires du projet "Prevention des IST/VIH/SIDA'
soutenu par l'UNICEF, MICC/UNICEF, May 2000.
Enquetes C.A.P sur la sante de la reproduction des adolescents, Mai-Juin 1999, Ministere de la Jeunesse
et des Sports, FNUAP, Altematives (Cabinet d'6tudes et de recherches multidisciplinaires d'appui a la
decision)
General Documents:
Costs of Scaling HIV Program activities to a National level in Sub-Saharan Africa: methods and
Estimates, AIDS Campaign Team for Africa, The World Bank, November 2000.
Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa, Africa Region, The World Bank, August 1999.
Effective Prevention Strategies in Low HIVPrevalence settings, UNAIDS, FHI, USAID, Impact, 2001.
Rencontrer les besoins des programmes nationaux de lutte contre le VIHISIDA: la collecte de donnees
sur les comportements, ONUSIDA, USAID, Impact, Mai 2000.
Reducing Girls' vulnerability to HIV/AIDS, The Thai approach, UNAIDS, Case Study, June 1999.
Partners in prevention: International case studies of effective health promotion practice in HIV/AIDS,
- 58 -



UNAIDS, 1998.
Second generation surveillance for HIV: The next decade, UNAIDS, WHO, 2000.
Handbook of Indicators for HI IAIDS/STI Programs, USAID, March 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STIIHIV/AIDS Prevention Project
07-Nov-2001
Difference belween expected
ani actual
Orginal Amount in USS Millions                               disbLrsements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
PC72160       2002 Second Private Sector Development Projec            0.00      23.80                 0.00       0.00      24.35       0.01)      0.00
P051922       2001 MG - Rural Development Support Project              0.00      89.05                 0.00       0.00      85.10      -2.71       0.00
P055166       2001 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00     108.29       5.33       0.00
P051741       2000 Second Health Sector Support Prolecl                0.00      40.00                 0.00       0.00      34.41       7.96       0.00
P052208       2000 Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitat.            0.00      65.00                 0.00       0.00      53.56      -6.93       0.00
P062628        2000 Regional Development                               0.00       4.60                  0.00      0.00       4.07       2.6'       0.00
P064305        1999 SOCIAL FUND ill                                    0.00      15.00                  0.00      0.00       5.21     -14.41       0.00
P052186        1999 MICRO FINANCE                                      0.00      16.40                  0.00      0.00       9.94       3.33       0.00
P057378        1999 SAC II                                             0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      77.32      35.38      39.51
P001568        1998 NUTRITION II                                       0.00      27.80                  0.00      0.00      16.34       5.93       0.00
P001564        1998 RURALWATERSEC.PILO                                 0.00      17.30                 0.00       0.00      11.30      11.74       0.00
P056487        1998 MINING PROJECT                                     0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       1.18       1.16       1.22
P001559       1998 EDUCATION SECTOR DEV                                0.00      65.00                 0.00       0.00      50.40      40.8:i      2.49
P001537        1997 ENVIRON. II                                        0.00      30.00                20.80       0.00       3.14      -0.4'       0.00
1'001555       1997 PRIVSECTDEV&C.B.                                   0.00      23.80                 0.00       0.00       2.93       3.93      -0.81
P040596        1997 ENVIRONMENT II                                     0.00       0.00                 8.10       0.00       5.75       1.511      0.00
P040019       1997 CAPACITY BUILDING                                   0.00      13.80                 0.00       0.00       0.87       1.73       0.95
P048697       1997 URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                0.00      35.00                  0.00      0.00      23.03      25.49       0.00
P001533       1996 MG ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                0.00      46.00                 0.00       0.00      13.19      16.50)      0.00
Total:       0.00      727.35               28.90        0.00      530.37     139.0r     43.36
- 60 -



MADAGASCAR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1990/91             AEF FIARO                       0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
1997                AEF GHM                         0.63    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.63    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                AEF Karibotel                   0.24    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.24    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93/95          AQUALMA                         1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991                BNI                             0.00    2.61     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.61     0.00    0.00
2000                BOA-M                           0.00    0.82     0.50     0.00    0.00    0.82      0.50    0.00
1983/89             Nossi-Be                        0.00    0.14     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.14     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          1.87    3.76     0.50     0.00     1.87    3.76     0.50    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999               AEF Bora Hotel                     0.35      0.00       0.00      0.00
1999               AEF Manerinerina                   0.15      0.00       0.00      0.00
2000               AEF Somaqua                        0.70       0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Cotona Clothing                    2.59       0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               COTONA III                         7.76       0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Besalampy                          15.23      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         26.78      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Madagascar      Africa   Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         15.5       659     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$1                      250        480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         3.9       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%1                                           3.1       2.6        1.9
Labor force (%)                                          3.1       2.6        2.4     GNI                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    70                                              l
Urban population (% of total population)                 29         34        32
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                         54         47        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                 90         92        77
Child malnutrition I% of children under 5)               40                     , .        Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     47         55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     33         38        38     1
Gross primarV enrollment (% of school-aqe population)    70         78        96             -     adagascar
Male                                                              85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                            71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                .      3.1       3.7        3.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                           17.0      14.9       17.1
Exports of aoods and services/GDP                       16.6      24.8      23.2                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                               6.3       7.2        8.4
Gross national savinos/GDP                               9.2       9.5        9.5
Current account balance/GDP                             7Domestic                                                  Investment
Interest pavmentslGDP                                   2.8        1.1       0.9      savings
Total debt/GDP                                         120.2     117.0      112.0
Total debt service/exports                    19.3      36.9      11.9        7.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                         79.1
Present value of debt/exports                                    287.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.5      2.0      4.7        4.8        6.4            -      Madagascar
GDP per capita                       -0.3     -0.9       1.5       1.6        3.4                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        -1.7      3.9      11.3      29.4       10 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            40
Agriculture                                   30.1      32.3      30.0       34.9
Industry                                      16.1      14.3      13.8       13.1     20
Manufacturinq                                         12.0 
Services                                      53.9      53.4      56.2       52.0     0o
95   98   97   ~~95   99   D0
Private consumption                                     85.7      84.9       84.3    -20
General government consumption                           8.0       7.9        7 3-GP
Imports of goods and services                          27.3       32.5       31 9
(average annual growth)                    1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports I%)
Apriculture                                    2.5       1.4        5.3      -2.4    45
Industry                                       0.9       2.4       4.2        5.5    30.
Manufacturing                                2.1       0.6
Services                                       0.3       2.5        1.6      11.1    15_
Private consumption                           -0.6       2.4        2.9       8.5      o                 9?    9
General government consumption                 0.5       1.2        9.6
Gross domestic investment                     15.1       2.6        8.7      24.2                   Exports     aImports
Imports of qoods and services                 -5.9       5.2        7.8      25.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-oroup averaqe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 62 -



Madagascar
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(%. change)                                                                       60-
ConsumerpnCes                                                                         .9911.8  9.9  11.9    40
Implicit GDP deflator                          .,    11.5        9.8      7.1
20 -
Govemment finance                                                                                             _
(% of GOP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                               ..    13.3        11.4     11.7             95   96   97   95   99    0
Current budget balance                        ..      4.2       2.1       2.6            -     GDPdeflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -3.6        -4.8     -4.2
TRADE
1980    1990       1999     2000    I Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)                                                                    E
Total exports (fob)                           ,,    345         665       681     1,250
Coffee                                     213       39         30        8
Vanilla                                     18       57         28       37    1,000
Manufactures                                 ..    146        478       486      750
Total imports (cif)                           ..    649         874    1,029       s
Food                                        89       49         46       67
Fuel and energy                            159      113        124      214      250
Capital goods                              333      186        154      168        0
94  95  96  97  9B  94  55
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       83        82        79
Import price index (1995=100)                 ,.       91        88        94                U Exports     U Imports
Temms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      91        94        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    516      512       910     1,195      0
Imports of goods and services              1,085      842      1,198    1,529
Resource balance                            -569    -330       -288      -334
Net income                                     .,   -146        -42       -53
Net current transfers                         11      238       129       124
Current account balance                       ..   -238        -201      -263    '10
Financing items (net)                         ..    101         247       376
Changes in net reserves                       ..    137         -46      -113    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       92       227       301
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           211.3  1,494.2   6,283.8  6,767.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US5 millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,248    3,704      4,354    4,359
IBRD                                        30       26         0        0                    G:301
IDA                                        122      770      1361     1,378               F:39
Total debtservice                            100      223       121        93                  A               B:1,378
IBRD                                         3        5         1         0
IDA                                          1        8        25       27
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             30      348        35        21
Officialcreditors                          193      159        65       101        E:2,087                     C:104
Private creditors                          140      -15         0         0
Foreign direct investment                   -1       22        58        68
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0                               0 450
World Bank program
Commitments                                 62      156       171       138     A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               26       64        84        94     B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         1        6        16        17     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   26       58        68        77
Interest payments                            3        7        10        10
Net transfers                               22       50        58        67
Development Economics                                                                                              10/9/01
- 63 -



Additional Annex 11: Supervision Plan
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
1. General Supervision Strategy
The project will require intensive supervision. A budget of US$ 200,000 is allocated to supervise the
project during the first 12 months of project implementation. It is multisectoral, with multiple players
operating at the national and decentralized levels. It will be implemented largely by many entities only
recently established and whose capacity will need strengthening. Many issues, although discussed and
agreed upon, will continue to need resolution, especially with respect to coordination with MOH.
The skills required for supervision are varied, given the multisectoral nature of the project and the diversity
of issues surrounding HIV/AIDS. It is, therefore, proposed to establish a core supervision team, enhanced
by specialists and other inputs on an as needed basis. The supervision requirements will be especially high,
at the start of the project, during the first two years. The core supervision team will be in the field twice a
year and would rely on UNAIDS theme group partners for supervision of activities during and between
missions. A supervision mission would take, on average, three weeks, and include at least five people.
Specialized inputs will be provided as required. Task team leaders of related sectoral projects will be asked
to devote at least half a day during each of their supervision mission on the MSPP.
At the samne time, the core supervision team will rely heavily on the technical inputs and collaboration of its
partners in the UNAIDS theme group and the team may tap into UNAIDS expertise for the specialized
inputs.
Project progress reviews will be held annually to assess the performance of the project and its contribution
to the national effort to reduce the spread and impact of I1V/AIDS. They will be held jointly with the
Conseil du PMSP and the UNAIDS thematic group. M&E information and conclusions of site visits
conducted by the supervision team will form the basis of the discussions.
Progress Reviews would include a presentation by the UGP on progress attained, problems encountered,
and future steps. A progress report will be prepared for annual review attendees to be distributed at least
one week prior to the meetings. The presentation will employ data derived from the project MIS and
observations made during site visits. Other information available at the time, including studies conducted
by the project or other donors will be employed to complement MIS data. Progress reviews will culminate
in stakeholder meetings that will form a basis for re-planning for the next two years. These meetings will be
used to share information on trends, best practices and to provide general technical information.
Given the key role that MOH activities have on the success of the government's efforts to reduce the spread
of HIV/AIDS, supervision missions will coordinate closely with the MOH's ongoing CRESAN II project.
2. Supervision Objectives
The core team will be primarily responsible for the review of: (i) quality of project management and
implementation, and adherence to the procedures and implementation manuals; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation results; (iii) financial management, including FMA performance, procurement procedures, and
technical and financial audits; (iv) spot-check quality and relevance of sub-projects financed under the
Fund component; and (v) progress on sector plan development and implementation.
- 64 -



3. Supervision Requirements
Core team:
The core team would consist of staff from Headquarters and from the country office. The following skills
would be included: (i) task team leader; (ii) implementation/operations specialist; (iii) a procurement
specialist; (iv) a financial management/private sector specialist; and (v) team counterpart in country. A
health specialist based in the field will also participate in missions as needed, but will focus specifically
year-round on the collaboration with the MOH. During the first two years, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist should be part of the core-team.
For the first and second years, 24 Headquarter staff weeks and 20 Country office staff weeks are planned
for the core team; to be gradually reduced in the third and fourth year.
Enhanced specialists and additional support:
The core team will be enhanced by other specialists on an as needed basis, and at the discretion of the task
team leader. These specialists would be responsible for the following: (i) within the context of the sector
programs (i.e., education, health, uniformed men, transport) review the sectoral ministry plans and
supervision of status and progress of the plans; (ii) quality of IEC activities as a whole; and (iii) occasional
in-depth review of particular subprojects focusing on specific target groups.
For the first year, 8 Headquarter staff weeks and 10 Country office staff weeks are planned on an ad-hoc
basis; to be reduced to 6 and 8 respectively for the second year, and 4 and 6 respectively for the last 2
years. Collaboration will be sought with the TTLs of relevant sectoral projects to provide time on MSPP
during each supervision mission in the field.
- 65 -



Additional Annex 12Gap Analysis Part 1: Summary of Ongoing Interventions
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STIIHIVIAIDS Prevention Project
Annexe 1: Gap Analysis - Project Multisectorielle de la Prevention de MSTNIH/SIDA
Bailleurs de Fonds
Org.                         Activites                        Duree           SITE           Partenaires
Ambassade   1. Appui a la preparation du projet PMPS          3/01-11/01    National         BM
de Japon     2. Appui financier au projet des sensibilisation  2001         Antsiranana      CMS/PSI
IST/SIDA de PSI
BIT          1. IEC dans les zones franches (37 entreprises)  1999-2001     Tana             ONGs, Employeurs
(OSIE), Travailleurs
2. IEC pour les travailleurs                     2001-2002    Antsirabe, Port
de Tamatave,
3. Appui au structures de coordination decentralisees          Samabava
4. Production et distrubution du materiel IEC de
_______   prevention du SIDA dans le monde du travail
BMZIGTZ    1. Lutte contre les MST / SIDA                     1989-1996
*    IEC, contr6le MST, securite transfusionnelle,
surveillance epidemiologique
2. Integration des activites IST/SIDA dans le projet   1996-present  Mahajanga  OSIEM
Sante de Base                                                                  ONGs
*    Sensibilisation; Prise en charge en IST! SIDA
*    Formation des agents de sante
*    Sensibilisation et distribution des condoms au
professionnels du sexes et leur clients
*    Approche service A base communautaires
urbaines dans les usines et les h8tels
*    Distribution des condoms et la sensibilisation
principalement sur le Planning familial et la
prevention des IST/SIDA au pres des communautaires
*    Sensibilisation par l'intermediaire des
marionnettes en matiere des IST/SIDA
*    Formation des conseillers au milieu scolaire
sur la Sante de la Reproduction des adolescents dont
la prevention des IST - infections sexuellement                                 Direction de
transmises/SIDA et les grossesses precoces est                                  I'Enseignement et de
primordiale                                                                    I'Education de Base
*    Reference des e1lves au Centre Sant6 Scolaire
pour la distribution des condoms et contraceptifs et la
prise en charge des IST
*    Cette approche existe egalement dans 2 autres
_________   districts
- 66 -



Cooperation  1. Appui au fonctionnement du BCN             2001-....     National       BCN
Francaise    2.Appui a la Direction des maladies transmissibles:         Tana           MINSAN
au Service de Surveillance Epidemiologie et pour la         Tana            Institut Pasteur
lutte contre la Tuberculose                                                 MDM
3. Etudes sur la co-infection Tuberculose-VIH               National        STOP SIDA
4. Appui a l'institut Pasteur pour la lutte contre les                      AFVP
maladies emergentes dont le SIDA                            Tana, Tamatave,
5. Appui financier aux ONG pour la lutte contre le          Diego
SIDA                                                        Tana, Majunga,
Tamatave
6. Creation et mise en aeuvre de trois centres de           National
depistage anononym et gratuit
National
7. Etudes                                                   Tana et
*    Appui a la surveillance epidemiologique dans           Tamatave
le cadre des choix strategiques adoptes au niveau           National
national                                                    National
*    surveillance de la co-infection VIH                    National
-Tuberculose
*    Enquetes CAP chez les travailleurs sexuels et
en milieu scolaire
*    Etudes epidemiologiques moleculaires
8. Soutien a des activites de prevention et IEC a partir
des projets eligibles au niveau de chaque province
*    Appui a la formation des associations,
sensibilisation des elus
Communaux                                                   National
*    Elaboration de plaquettes et autres documents
*    Appui logistique a la DLMT
*    Promotion de l'offre de soin
*    Cr6ation, equipement d'un centre de
documentation a Antananarivo et appui pour
Tamatave et Mahajunga
9. Appui a la surveillance epidemiologique par un
appui a la mise en place des centres de surveillance
integree des maladies au niveau des provinces et la
participation aux enquetes nationales
FNUAP       - Sante reproductif integrant MST/SIDA          2001-...     National        ONG, Ministeres,
- redynamisation des EMAD                                                   BCN, eglises
- appui au developpement des strategies (eglises)
- Appui a l'integration de l1enseignement sur le SIDA
dans toutes les structures d'encadrement des jeunes en
dehors de l'ecole
- Appui a la prevention de transmission dans la
milieu hospitalier
- Appui au developpement du materiel IEC
-67 -



PNUD        - Renforcement des capacit6s nationales dans la lutte  2001-...  National    BCN, ONG,
contre le SIDA                                                              Ministere 3
- Mobilisation des differentes acteurs au niveau
regional, national et intemationale
- Appui au fonctionnement du BCN
- Appui a l'elaboration des politiques et strategies
- Appui a la mise en place d'un systeme de
surveillance epidemiologique (pour le milieu
militaire)
- Appui au renforcement des capacites des medias
nationaux
- Appui a l'amelioriation des conditions d'acces aux
soins
- Appui a la formulation d'un cadre juridique
- Appui a la sensibilisation des communautes et leurs
leaders
- Appui au depistage volontaire et le counseling
- Appui a l'integration de la dimension SIDA dans les
programmes de developpement et dans la gestion des
entreprises
OMS-PNUD  - Appui au developpement des algorithmes de      2001-....     National        BCN, ONCi,
I'approche syndromic les STI                                                Ministeres
- Achat des r6actif STI
- Appui a la prevention et la prise en charge des IST
- Appui au PNLS et BCN
- Appui a l'Enquete Epidemiologique
- Integration volet SIDA/SR au niveau de la Sante
Matemelle
ONUSIDA   1. Fonds pour l'Acceleration de Programmes (FAP):  2001-2002    National
*    Mobilisation des artistes malgaches pour la                            FNUAP
lutte contre la propagation du VIH
*    Enquete epidemiologique et comportementale                             PNUD
vis a vis des IST/SIDA dans le milieu militaire
*    Appui au processus de planification strategique                        PNUD
*    Plaidoyer pour la mobilisation sociale pour la                         UNICEF
lutte contre le SIDA                                                        BIT
*    Mobilisation du milieu de travail a la lutte
contre le VIH/SIDA
2. Appui technique et au fonctionnement du BCN
UJnion      1. Appui au PNLS                                             National
Europeen
UNICEF      1. Prevention de la transmission SIDA et les IST chez 2001-....  National    STOP SIDA,
les jeunes                                                                  Ministeres (le
2. Formation des joumalistes et mobilisation des            National        I'Informabon,
medias                                                       National       Jeunesse, l.d. Sec.,
3. Sante reproductif des adolescents                                        Ed de base, BCN
4. Prevention des IST /SIDA en milieu scolaire
5. Appui au developpement des plan strategiques
6. Appui au developpement de mesures juridiques, sociales
et/ou economique
7. Appui a l'integration de 1'enseignement sur le SIDA dans
le cursus de toutes les structures officielles d'education et
- 68 -



de formation
8. Appui a l'integration de l'enseignement sur le
SIDA dans toutes les structures d'encadrement des
jeunes en dehors de l'ecole
9. Dotation de retroviral pour les femmes enceintes
seropositive
10. Appui a la formation des agents de Sante pour la
prise en charge des seropositives
Org.                        Activites                        Duree           SITE          Partenaires
USAID        1). Amelioration de la prise en charge des IST  1995-2001
- Elaboration des algorithmes de PEC IST                      National
- recherche operationnelle pour ameliorer la PEC des          Tamatave, Tana,
IST chez les                                                  Diego           FHI/Pop Council
travailleuses de sexe                                         Zones rouges,   JSI, Medecins du
- soins IST----> zones rouges, Tana, Fianar (                 Tana, Fianar    Monde, Adra)
2) Interventions pour le changement de comportement           Zones rouges    JSI, ADRA
ciblant les groupes a haut risque et activites de
prevention                                                    National
- approche paire (jeunes scolarises et non scolarises,        Tana, Fianar,   PSI
prostituees)                                                  Tulear
- elaboration de kits IEC
- activites avec cinemobile                                   National        PSI
FHI/Pop Council
3) Promotion des condoms par le biais du marketing
social                                                        Fianar, Tana et  JSI, Adra
- business capote avec les prostituees                        Tamatave
- recherche operationnelle sur le condom feminin
4) Renforcement des capacites locales pour mettre en
oeuvre et evaluer les activites                               Zones Rouges   Alliance and PSI
- renforcement institutionnel des equipes de districts        Tana, Majunga  Measures
sanitaires et approche
integree
- formation des associations et ONG locales en                                Impact
management                                                                    Futures Group
- creation et formation du groupement de joumalistes
Intermedias
5) Plaidoyer
- integration d'un volet IST/SIDA dans l'EDS 97
- developpement d'un modele d'impact du SIDA
- 69 -



ONGs et Projets Internationaux
Org.                     Activites                      Duree         Site      Beneficiares    Finaltnce /
partenaires
ADRA       Projet integre de prevention des IST/HIV    2001-2005    Toamasina                     ADRA siege,
1. Renforcement des capacites institutionnelles                                       USAI:DJ,
pour la prevention des MSTNVIH/SIDA         (vient de                 3. Prostitues;    fonds prive
commencer)                eunes;
2. Dons (micro) pour la prevention des                                camionneurs et
MST/VIH/SIDA                                                          chauffeurs de
*  Evaluation des besoins des CBOs pour lutter                       taxi; le militaire;
contre les MST/VIHISIDA                                           la police; et
*  Formation pour les secteurs publiques et                          tireurs de pousse
prives
*  Appui technique                                                   4. les jeunes ages
*  Suivi et evaluation des sous-projets                               de 10-16 ans
* Recherche operationnelle
3. Campagnes de Mass Media focalise
4. Programme de sante reproductif des
adolescents avec des messages focalises selon
_______   I'age et activite sexuel
Aids       - Evaluation des capacites des ONG et       2001          National   Jeunes, adultes,  USAII)
Alliance/  associations oeuvrant dans la lutte contre le                        travailleurs de    Bureau
PACT       SIDA                                                                  sexe             Regional
- Appui au developpement des capacites des                                             Afrique, Aids
ONG et associations de travailleurs de sexe                                            Alliance UK,
- Mise en place de quelques projets pilotes                                            PACT
CARE       Projet Pilot de prevention des ISTNVIHISIDA    Juillet    Antananari 450 enfants
chez les adolescents                        2001-2002    vo           scolarises entre
*  Education sexuel et programmes de                                  10 et 15 ans
prevention des IST/SIDA                                            (ecoles primaires)
*  Education par les pairs                                            et x enfants
*  Sensibilisation des parents, educateurs                            non-scolaris&s.
Corps de   1. Renforcement des associations des                      Antsirabe,
la Paix    travailleurs de sexe                                      Fianarantso
a, Diego,
2.Appui aux Clubs Anti-SIDA                               Sainte
Marie
3. Manuel d'IEC  Life Skills >) en Malgache
4. Activites d'IEC A base communautaire
CRS        - Education et Formation sur (< Life Skills  2001- ? ?    Antsirabe   Jeunes de 9 A 13  Ecoles
(pilot)    ans; parents;    privees; les
1Depistage et counseling pour les                                  enseignants      Eglises
MSTNVIH/SIDA et traitement des MST                        Tana,       Jeunes ages de 15 AMCMv[:
Antsirabe   A 24 ans; parents; Episcopal
prostitues; Paires Health
educateurs; staff
des centres de
depistage; sage
femmes;
communaut6s
- 70 -



Org.                   Activites                 Duree         Site         Beneficiares       Finance /
partenaires
CRS suite  -. Integration des activites de plaidoyer et      10 dioceses    Etudiants de 6 a 14; Commission
education concemrant les IST/SIDA dans les                      orphelins,
programmes en cours                                             associations des
Tana,          femmes; enfants des
- Sensibilisation et Formation pour l'Eglise     Tamatave,      prisonniers,
Catholique de Madagascar                         Morondava      handicape;
agriculteurs
- Sensibilisation, Mobilisation et formation     National
des ONG locales pour des activites de base                      Staff de CRS;
(grass root activities)                                         leaders de l'eglise
ONGs catholiques
Dodwell   Production d'un feuilleton radiophonique    1996-200 National     Toute la population  UNICEF,
Trust      vehiculant des messages sur les         2                                           FNUAP, USAID
ISTNIH/SIDA
FHI        1. Recherche operationnelle pour        2000-200 Diego, Tana,   Travailleurs de sexe  USAID
I'amelioration de la prise en charge des IST  I  Tamatave                           Horizons,
chez les femmes a haut risque                                                       Population
Tana, Tamatave Travailleurs de sexe  Council
2. Recherche operationnelle sur les
preservatifs feminines                           Tana, Tamatave
3. Etude clinique pour le traitement de la
syphilis primaire
Institut    - depistage et counseling individuel et  1998-...  Tana         Population generale, Cooperation
Pasteur    payant                                                           travailleurs de sexe,  Francaise,
- confirmation des tests HIV+ pour MDM et                       patients tuberculeux, MDM, SALFA,
SALFA                                                           personnes a risque   Institut Pasteur
- diagnostic, depistage et confirmation pour
dispensaire IST/SIDA a Tana
- depistage chez les Tuberculeux
JSI        1. Appui au developpement des plans     1999-200 Antananarivo,  Adultes, jeunes,     USAID
strategiques regionaux et national     3         Fianarantsoa,  travailleurs de sexe, Partenaires:
2. Appui a le formation a la prise en charge                    transporteurs, leaders PACT, Futures
des IST selon l'approche syndromique                            communautaires et  Group, AED,
3. Appui au developpement et a la diffusion                     leaders religieux   Corps de la
du kit IEC sur les IST/SIDA                                                         Paix, Linkages
4. Activites IEC
5. Activites dans les zones rouges et avec
personnes a risques (jeunes, travailleurs de
sexe, transporteurs)
6. Appui aux ONG cruvrant dans le cadre
de la prevention des IST/HIV/SIDA
- 71 -



MdM        1. Activites de prevention              1994 -    Tana         Prostitues (femmes,    FMS
*      IEC et CCC                       2001 (Sept)            hommes et travesties);  (1995-97)
*      Promotion du preservatif masculin                       porteurs de MST;       Coop Fran
et feminin                                                     chauffeurs routiers;   (1996-97)
*      Realisation de supports adaptes au                      jeunes scolaires et    UN ICEF
contexte local                                                 personnes en age d'avoir (1995-96)
*      Sensibilisation par les paires                          rapports sexuels       OMS
*      Enquetes sur les connaissances,                                                (199v8)
attitudes et pratiques des populations            Tulear       Travailleurs de sexe   USAID
vulnerables (pour avoir des donnees pour                       (regulieres ou         (1998-9/01)
affiner les messages IEC et d'evaluer                          occasionnelles); porteurs MdM
impact)                                                        de MST; marins;        (1994-2001)
2. Activites curatifs                                         pecheurs et tireurs de    Conseil
*      Depistage des MST et VIH                                pousse; chauffeurs     General de la
*      Traitement des MST                                      routiers; jeunes scolaires Reunion
3. Counseling par les medecins au cours des                    et personnes en age
consultations                                                  d'avoir rapports sexuels
4. Formation MST/SIDA
5. Perennisation des activites developpe -
renforcement des capacit6s institutionnelles
internes
6. Surveillance epidemiologique (depistage,
conseil, et
donnees)
PSI        1. Projet CMS                           Lance en  National      Population generale,    USAID
*      Marketing social des preservatives  Nov. 1998;          population a risque
*      IEC de mass media (radio,        ... en cours
t6levision, et evenements) and techniques de
communication interpersonnelle
(cinemobile, paire educateurs)
*      Initiatives avec les groupes cibles
pour assurer distribution des preservatifs et
information de base sur les MST/VIH/SIDA
*      Etudes qualitatives et quantitatives
Tamatave                           Gatb-s
2. Projet de sante reproductif des adolescents                 adolescents            Foundation
*      Formation des agents de sante dans
le traitement des IST et des services de
counseling (PF).
*      IEC pour disseminer information de
base sur les MST et le planning familiale    Lance en
Dec 2000
3. Recherche                            Lance en
Sep
4. IEC Cinemobile                       2000-...
5. Campagnes d'IEC - videos, TV, radio et  2000-...                                   PSI L S /FHI/
la musique                                                                            USAID
2001-...
6. Appui au developpement et
commercialisation d'un kit IST
- 72 -



ONGs et Associations Nationales
Org.                   Activit6s               Duree         Site         Beneficiares       Finance Par
AJEFIX          Activites IEC (HIV/SIDA):          1997-200 Fianarantsoa   Jeunes,             PNLS-DIRDS
-  IEC communautaire              I                         transporteurs,    Fianarantsoa, Lyons
-  facilitation de groupes                                  prisonniers       Club, FISA,
-  formation des enseignants et                                               UNICEF, JSI/USAID,
educateurs pairs en prevention primaire                                       MSH Madagascar
des IST/Sida
-  Gestion de projet en matiere
d'IST/Sida -
Amit            Prise en charge des IST selon                Antananarivo   Travailleurs       JSI
l'approche syndromique                                      affili6s
Association     Sensibilisation sur les            2000-200 Fianarantsoa   Travailleurs de   JSI/PSI
Ainga           IST/HIV/SIDA par des educateurs  I                           sexe
pairs; reinsertion socio-economique
des travailleurs de sexe; orienter les
travailleurs de sexe vers les centres
de sante
Associations de  - Formation des educateurs pairs   2000-200 National        Pratiquants d'arts
Pratiquants des  - Elaboration et distribution du  I                         martiaux et
Arts Martiaux   materiel IEC                                                 public des
de Mad.         - Sensibilisation de pair et de                              manifestations
(APAMM)         masse des membres
Association des - Plaidoyer contre la prostitution    2000-...  National     Population        CCA, MaTV, RNM,
femmes          des mineurs pour la population                               generale          TVM, Express de
ournalistes    - Sensibilisation de la population                           Membres           M/car, M/car Tribune
Malgaches       sur le SIDA                                                  (femmes
(AFJM)          - Sensibilisation des membres sur la                         ournalistes)
lutte contre le SIDA
Association des   Promotion de la reinsertion sociale des 2000               Travailleurs de   PNLS, GTZ, ONG SOS
Femmes          travailleurs de sexe par l'IEC afin de                       sexe              Avenir, UNICEF, ONG
Samaritaines    limiter la propagation de l'infection du                                       Atecom, ONG GFF
(AFSA)          VIl/Sida et des IST:                                                           Draft October 2001W
- Creation d'associations des
travailleurs de sexe et sensibilisation
dans le cadre du PNLS
- Organisation de cours de franSais, de
coupe et couture dans le cadre de la
reinsertion sociale des travailleurs de
sexe
Sensibilisation des prostituees sur leurs
lieux de travail
Association des Activites de prevention des        1999-200 RN 7             Routiers, agents  SPDF
eunes medecins IST/SIDA (IEC):                    I         Morondava       de sante,
de Madagascar  - inciter la recherche des soins pour                         travailleurs de
(AJMM)          les IST,                                                     sexe, maisons de
- promouvoir l'utilisation des                              passe,
preservatives,                                               Responsables des
- formation des agents de sante                             bars et hotels
dans l'approche syndromique
- production et diffusion du
materiel IEC
- sensibilisation des travailleurs de
- 74 -



I sexe, transportateurs et hotels
Association    Sensibilisation                  1999     Antananarivo   Etudiants
Masse                                                  JIuniversitaires
Association    Sensibilisation des jeunes filles a  1999  Sainte Marie    Travailleurs de ONUSIDA
Sante et       travers la formation des                                 sexe, jeunes
Developpement pairs-educateurs, les activites IEC                       filles
et la promotion des preservatifs
ASSONG         - Formations des formateurs                                            JSI, PSI
- Support IEC
- Logistique des preservatifs
CAFED-Femme - Activites de sensibilisation et    1999-200 Tulear        Femmes,       SPDF
s et           prevention pour le grand public    0                     eunes filles,
Developpement - Sensibilisation et mise en place                        grand public
d'un centre d'orientation et de
conseil
Favemia        IEC                                      Antsirabe      Travailleurs de
Sexe
FISA           IEC                                      Diego,                        JSI, IPPF, FNUAP,
Mahajanga,                   Population Council
Tamatave,
Tulear
Fivmata        IEC a travers education des pairs        Diego          Travailleurs de FHI
Sexe
Fed6ration     - Formation des formateurs IEC et 1999-200 Antananarivo   - Jeunes     FNUAP
Malagasy de    educateurs pairs                I        Fianarantsoa    pratiquants
Kung-Fu        - Sensibilisation a travers              Mahajanga       d'art martiaux
I'&eucation par les pairs et l'IEC       Toamasina      - Population
pendant les manifestations                              generale
sportives
- Sensibilisation du grand public a
travers la production et diffusion
des casettes video
FHd6ration du   Sensibilistion des leaders du  2000-200 Antsirabe,      Leaders du    UNICEF
scoutisme      Mouvement, elaboraiton et       I        Antananarivo,  scoutisme
feminin        distribution du materiel IEC,            Morondava,    feminin et
formation des encadreurs                 Antsiranana,   scouts .6minins
Toamasina,
Majunga,
Manakara
INTERMEDIA  - Sensibilisation de la population          National        Population    UNICEF, Measure
S              - Renforcement de capacites des                          general,      Communication,
membres et information pour le                          membres        ONUSIDA, MDM. CINU,
changement de comportement vis-A vis                      resse 'te  JSI, OMS, ONP, MaTV,
du VIH et des IST                                       radio et TV)   TVM, M3TV, TVPlus,
Express de Mlcar, NM/car
Tribune, Midi M/car,
Club Joseph/LLB, Pact
Mlcar, GTZ, MINSAN,
PNLS, Aide et Actxcn de
Tulear, MICC, PRB3
- 75 -



Org.                 Activitis             Durke       Site      Beneficiares        Finance Par
Jeunesse Espoir Formation des formateurs et    1998     Antsirabe   Tireurs de       ONUSIDA
de Madagascar  educateurs pairs                                     pousse-pousse
(JEM)          - Sensibilisation du grand public a
travers les radios locales
Ligue pour la   Education des jeunes sur la vie    2001             Jeunes
lecture de la    sexuelle et les IST/VIH/SIDA
Bible
Mediacom       - Diffuser des programmes       1999-200 National   Jeunes dans les    SPDF, UNICEF
d'entracte comportant des      I                    salles videos (500
messages sur le lutte contre le                      salles)
SIDA
- Production et diffusion des spots
des sensibilisation et du materiel
IEC
MSH            Renforcement de capacites technique  1999-.... National    ONG et     Cooperation Suisse, IPPF,
Madagascar    et de gestion des organisations locales               Associations      FISA, CRESAN 11,
dans le domaine du developpement                                      UNICEF, MPCFE
socio-economique et la lutte contre les
IST/SIDA
Organisation    Action pilote de prevention du  1999-200 Antananariv Travailleurs     SPDF, BIT,
Sanitaire      VIH/SIDA en milieu de travail:   1       o           affilies         Groupement des
Tananarivienne sensibilisation des chefs                                              Entreprises des Zones
Inter-Entreprise d'entreprises, les representants                                    Franches, JSI
(Ostie)        syndicaux et le grand public
SAF/FJKM       Formation des animateurs et     1998-199 Antsohihy  Population
sensbilisation de la population  9                  generale
pour la prevention des IST
SALFA          1. Activites de sensibilisation  2000-... National    Patients des 30    FNUAP et NORAD
IST/VIH/SIDA apres des leaders                       centres de Sant6 de
religieux et sociaux                                 Salfa
2. Prise en charge des IST dans le
programme Sante de Reproduction
3. Testing rapide des patients en
echec de traitement TBC, des
donneurs de sangs et des cas
suspects
Saobidy        Sensibilisation en milieu scolaire  1998-199 Miarinarivo Jeunes scolarises
et du grand public             9
SOS Avenir    Activites de sensibilisation pour   1997  Commune  Jeunes 6tudiants
Aeroport Ivato  les jeunes du quartiers                 Ivato/Tana
Stop Sida      Activites IEC, educateur pairs,    1999-200 Toamasina, Camionneurs,    UNICEF, USAID,
mass media, vente des preservatifs, I    Diego,      tireurs de       Cooperation Frangaise
foyer de jeunes, mobilisation des        Brickaville  pousse-pousse,
leaders,                                 Nosy Be     eunes, travailleurs
de sexe, forces
arm6es,
travailleurs
touristiques
UETAMM         Activites IEC sur les IST/SIDA    1997   Toamasina  Etudiants
(Union des                                                          universitaires
Etudiants de
- 76 -



Tamatave en
Medecine de
Madagascar)
Ministeres
r         Org.                          Activites                  Duree         Site         Finance/
Partenaires
Agriculture/Eau et Forets   1. Formation des vulgarisateurs    En cours    National
2. IEC pour les agriculteurs et les groupes
de pro ducteurs agricoles
I)efense                 1. Formation des officiers            En cours    National
Enseignement Secondaire et 1. Integrer les informations relatives a la   En cours    National  UNICEF, JSI
Education de Base        prevention du SIDA et la sante reproductif
dans le programme scolaire
2. Former les educateurs pairs et des  Etabli Jan
enseignants                           2000
3. Mise en place de 127 clubs anti-sida
Fnseignement Superieur    1. Insertion du volet MST/SIDA dans 5    En cours    National
discipline d'accueil du programme scolaire
2. Travaux de mise en point de techniques
de depistage, d'epidemiologique et de
formation de techniciens de laboratoire, a                      LNR
travers des formations sanitaires publiques
et privees
Enseignement technique et  1. Programmes SRA avec volet prevention  2000-2001  Antananarivo-F JSI
formation professionelle    IST/VIH/SIDA                                   ianarantsoa    JSI
2. Formation d'un groupement des                  National
formateurs SRA
3. Developpement du materiel IEC de
prevention de SIDA a introduire dans le
curriculum des policiers a Tana et
Fianaranantsoa
4. Formation des formateurs
Forces Armees            1: IEC inteme                         En cours    National       FNUAP
2. Promotion des preservatifs
3. Insertion du volet IST/SIDA dans le
programme des ecoles de formation
_____________________ .4. Activites de planification
Information, Culture et  1. Production du kit de plaidoyer et IEC    En cours    National
Communication            2. Formation des journalistes
3. Animation dans les salles videos   1998-2000   Tana          UNICEF
4. IEC et formation des animateurs    1998-2000   Tana, Aloatra, UNICEF
Androy,
5. Etudes d'impact des activites IEC  1999        Sud-Est,      UNICEF
Tamatave
Tamatave,
Tana et Diego
Jeunesse                 1. IEC au niveau des maisons et foyers des En cours    National
jeunes
2. Formation des animateurs
- 77 -



3. Projections des films educatifs   I           I
Org.                          Activites                     Duree           Site           Finance/
Partenaires
Police             1. Formation des policiers nouveaux         En cours     National,         JSI
2. Noyaux provinciaux dans la lutte contre le            Fianaranatsoa et
SIDA pour former des formateurs                          Antananarivo
3. Developpement du materiel IEC de prevention
de SIDA a introduire dans le curriculum des
policiers a Tana et Fianaranantsoa
4. Formation des formateurs
Population,        1. Formation des leaders d'ONGs, d'associations          Antsirabe,
Condition Feminine  feminines et de cadres de Population                    Tamatave
et de l'Enfance   2. Appui a l'elaboration de plans d'action                Antsirabe, Betafo,
3. Mise en ceuvre des plans d'action dans ces            Tamatave, Fenerive
domaines                                                 Est, Soanierana
Ivongo, Mahambo,
Ampasimbe,
Miandriavazo
Sante - PNLS       1. Materiels IEC & cartes conseils                       National/Prov     CRESAN, JSI,
PSI
2. Promotion et distribution des preservatifs            National          USAID, FNUAP
CRESAN
3. Surveillance, analyse de donnees & reportage          National
CRESAN,
4. Programme de surveillance sentinelle                  Centres de sante    OMS-PNUD,
cls             LNR, Inst.
Pasteur
5. Depistage volontaire et counseling                                      CHU/HJRA,
Tana             MdM, LNR,
Inst. Pasteur
6. Prise en charge des IST classiques et elaboration
des materiels educatifs
National         JSI/USAID,
7. Etude IP6/lP7 et dissemination           2000-2001                      UNICEF
National
Tourisme           Sensibilisation contre le tourisme sexuel   1998         Sainte Marie      UNICEF
Antsiranana
Etude sur l'exploitation sexuelle des enfants  1999      Tulear, Toamasina
Distribution d'affiches, affichettes << Non au  1999     National          ECPAT
tourisme sexuel >>                                                         FRANCE
Publication d'articles informant les touristes sur   2000  National        ACM
les dispositions legales en matiere d'exploitation
sexuelle impliquant des enfants
Diffusion a la TVM de spots publicitaires sur la loi 2000  National        Ministere du
en vigueur sur l'exploitation sexuelle des enfants                          Tourisme
Publication de mesures pour empecher les enfants         Belalanda (Toliara)
mineurs de se prostituer
Etude sur les formes et l'ampleur quantitative de   2000  Toamasina        UNICEF
1'exploitation sexuelle                                  Nosy-Be
- 78 -



Additional Annex 13: Lessons Learned from International Experience
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
1. Senegal's experience: Senegal is one of the few countries that has maintained a stable low prevalence
since the detection of HIV/AIDS in the country. The three major behavior-factors that have contributed to
this success have been identified as follows (UNAIDS, 1999 The Case of Senegal): (i) sexual activity
begins relatively late, (ii) extramarital sex is limited, and (iii) condom use during extramarital sex and
commercial sex is high. After the first HIV/AIDS cases were identified, the government of Senegal reacted
immediately with: a) an intensified STI treatment program; b) massive training of health sector personnel;
c) informing and promoting active involvement of religious leaders; d) promotion of active community
involvement; and e) reaching young people through schools and youth clubs. Program-factors that have
contributed to the success are the sex worker registration since 1969 and the successful STI treatment
program. The MSPP for Madagascar will be looking closely at these factors and drawing on the lessons
leamed that are applicable to the Malagasy situation, in particular the involvement of religious leaders,
registration of sex workers and intensification of the STI treatment program.
2. The Thai experience: Thailand was very successful in curbing the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
the early 90s ('Relationships of HIV and STI declines in Thailand to Behavioral Change ", UNAIDS 1 998
). Immediate action from the govemment through the use of mass media awareness campaigns -- such as
the promotion of 100% condom use for commercial sex, expansion of STI treatment, involvement of N(Os
and private sector -- was the main factor for its success. Once the effectiveness of the 100% condom use
for commercial sex program was established in the pilot areas, it was rapidly expanded nationwide. The
main strategy of the 100% condom use program was to gain the agreement of the owners and managers of
all sex establishments to enforce condom use as a condition of commercial sex. When they would not
cooperate, they faced serious sanctions. Thailand took a very open approach to reporting HIV prevalence
from the sentinel surveillance system, making the public quickly aware of the dangers of commercial sex.
Condom use in commercial sex rapidly became the norm, numbers of clients were halved, and new HIV
infections and STI rates dropped by almost 80% nationwide. However, enforcement of 100% condom use3
appears to have led to an increase of commercial sex in indirect sites that are more difficult to identify.
Another important finding is that the dominant route of infection for women is now husband-to-wife
transmission. The lessons from Thailand demonstrate that the epidemic is not static; it evolves and changes
over time and so should the responses. The MSPP will take these valuable lessons learned from Thailand
and apply them to its project design. Opportunities to involve Thai experts and study tours to Thailand wvill
be explored.
3. Bangladesh experience: The HIIV/AIDS epidemic in Bangladesh is comparable to the epidemic in
Madagascar. Low prevalence, 0.6 percent among sex workers but rising rapidly and existence of numerous
risk factors; high STI levels; low condom use among commercial sex workers; large commercial sex
industry; and substantial risk behavior among various population groups such as sailors, truckers, and sex
workers. As in Madagascar awareness levels of the dangers of HIV/AIDS and the routes of transmission
are very low. Therefore lessons learned from this project and the design of a Bank financed project will be
taken by the MSPP with particular emphasis on systematically addressing risk factors to prevent the spread
of HIV/AIDS. Lesson learned from Bangladesh to date include (report no. 21299-BD): (a) providing
information on safe behavior alone is not sufficient to bring about behavioral change. Interventions for
promoting safe behavior should not only aim at providing information, but also at removing constraints that
prevent people from choosing safe behavior and practices; (b) AIDS is a development issue: social factors
such as violence, migration, marginalization, human trafficking and discrimination affect HIV/AIDS
- 80 -



prevention; and (c) existing NGO efforts in reproductive health work have paved the way for STI and
-H1V/AIDS work by establishing communication channels and developing strong relationships with local
people.
- 81 -



Additional Annex 14: Detailed Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIVIAIDS Prevention Project
1. General Strategy
The focus of this component is threefold:
Monitor project activities;
Evaluate the impact of project activities; and
*     Provide support for the studies to be conducted under Component 1.
M&E activities will address two areas:
1)    inputs and effects of sub-project and sectoral plan activities on beneficiaries (high risk groups. and
the general population); and
2)    the effectiveness and efficiency of the operation of the Fund and the project as a whole.
Responding effectively to HIV/AIDS requires sustained M&E of a broad range of measures, includingz
impact indicators and more intermediate measures of program effects to capture program performance in
the more immediate term. The measurement of process (input and output) measures is crucial in steering
the program in the short-term. In the long-term, measurement of impact on FHV prevalence is key. In
Madagascar, the sentinel surveillance system is weak and thus may not be a useful mechanism to measure
impact. Thus, the focus of the project will be to measure outcomes including modification of behavior in
response to HIV/AIDS, and increased knowledge regarding personal risk vis-a-vis HIV/AIDS. Because it
is difficult to separate the impact of project-financed activities and other ongoing activities (namely, MOH
interventions) to reduce the spread of HIV, emphasis will be made to measure effects on particular groups
that the project targets. Close collaboration with the MOH's epidemiological surveillance and M&E tnits
will be crucial to measure overall impact, if feasible, and to obtain data on STI prevalence.
Pilot testing of activities will include:
1)    Demonstration projects to fine-tune specific activities
2)     Quasi-experimental testing of two or three service delivery altematives
Responding effectively also requires the identification of effective approaches through carefully desigled
pilots and operations research studies. This component will provide support to developing and follouiing
up, with the support of consultants, small studies designed to provide inputs to the development of sect:oral
plans.
2. Monitoring and Supervision of Project Activities
The UGP will be responsible for monitoring the performance of sub-projects (including those request:ng
capacity building for improved performance), sectoral initiatives, as well as the intemal operation of the
project. The day-to-day monitoring of Fund activities will, however, be a shared responsibility between the
UGP and NGOs contracted to conduct supervision field visits to subprojects. Moreover, mechanisms will
be established to enable the community to monitor subproject activities.
The project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management information s'istem
(MIS) based in the UGP, containing key technical and financial input and process information for the
project. Data to measure progress of Fund activities would be derived from sub-project proposals ancL
progress reports. Community inputs would provide information on the quality of services provided ancd
would give project activities greater transparency and accountability. Data from sectoral strategies would
- 82 -



be derived from sectoral plans. Project monitoring will also assess the project implementation team's
performance in project implementation as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation of the
FMA and its regional offices. The MIS would contain information on number of contracts, types of
activities financed, time taken to approve proposals and provide financing, amount of financing allocated to
each target group/region, etc.
On monitoring and supervision of activities targeting beneficiaries through the Fund: Supervision will be
carried out through the review of project MIS and site visits. The MIS would contain data derived from
sub-project proposals and progress reports. Formats for both of these documents will be provided to grant
recipients to ensure comparable information is received for each subproject (and will be included in the
Operational Manual). Facilitators assisting recipients in the preparation of proposals would ensure reliable
information is included in the proposals. Field supervision will be subcontracted to one or more NGOs who
will visit subprojects to verify that proposed activities are taking place. Small contracts (under $5,000) will
be spot checked randomly. Larger contracts will receive regular visits. In the case of larger contracts,
beneficiary assessments would be made at the end of the contract before a new contract can be considered.
Supervision visits would verify quality of reporting on progress reports. Supervision would be formative,
addressing issues on the spot. NGO supervisors would ensure information on progress reports is complete
and reliable. Data produced from the MIS would give an idea as to the proportion of effort dedicated to
each target group and type of activity, permitting the UGP and the Conseil to steer project activities
towards priority areas as they emerge. In addition to quantitative information regarding subproject
progress, mechanisms would be set up in each community to permit the transmission of complaints or
suggestions, regarding the services provided. These would give project activities greater transparency at
the local level and would give project management inputs as to the quality of the services provided.
Monitoring and Supervision of Sectoral Plan Implementation: As part of the development of sector plans,
indicators would be identified and the data collection procedures and forms would be defined. A minimum
number of variables would be selected to be included in the UGP MIS. MIS staff would work with the
assigned sector staff to ensure data collected are reliable and complete. Supervision would be conducted
jointly by contracted NGOs and sector staff who would provide the MIS data to the UGP on a quarterly
basis. MIS data would be reviewed on a regular basis to assess implementation progress and spot checks
would be made by the M&E team to verify data validity.
On monitoring and supervision of project operation: The UGP M&E unit will supervise the activities of
the FMA and its regional subsidiaries. It is important to give close follow-up to the regional FMAs initially
to ensure they are applying eligibility criteria correctly and understand the procedures contained in the
Operational Manual. Supervision will be on the spot and via review of MIS information to review
compliance with eligibility criteria and response time to reviewing and financing subprojects. It is expected
that in the first trimester of operations, UGP supervision of the FMA will be intensive. Supervision will be
formative, ensuring errors and omissions are corrected on the spot. In addition, technical and financial
audits of the FMA will be conducted twice a year.
3. Evaluation of Project Impact
Data Availability: While an HIV sentinel surveillance is available for 1990 to 1996 from antenatal clinics,
the surveillance system has not been working well since then. Efforts are being made to strengthen the
surveillance system with Japanese Grant funds and funds from other Donors, namely, USAII) through
CDC and the French Cooperation. A planned cross-sectional sero-prevalence survey has been delayed but
will likely be conducted before the end of 2002.
- 83 -



Numerous organizations and donors are conducting research in Madagascar, particularly with regards to
STIs, and more recently, HIV/AIDS. They include numerous special purpose in-depth studies and surveys
of STI incidence and prevalence, and behavioral deterninants of STI, cultural sexual beliefs and practices,
and on quality of STI services. None of them have national coverage, and focus on specific target groups
such as CSWs, youth, STI patients, etc. In addition, there are several initiatives being conducted by doncrs
which include pre and post measurements. Population Services International (PSI) is working in Tamatave
and have done baseline qualitative and quantitative surveys/focus groups to measure the impact of their
activities. These are focused on STIs but have some specific information on HIV. They are conducting
these studies every two years. John Snow International (JSI) has conducted surveys of Quality of Care
(including both an assessment at facilities and the views of households served by them) in Antananarivo
and Fianarantsoa. Family Health Intemational (FHIIImpact) and the Population Council (PC/Horizons)
have conducted operations research to assess prevalence and incidence of STIs and to improve the quality
of STI prevention and treatment services.
Some national level surveys available have included some questions on STIs and IUV. Two Demographic
and Health Surveys have been conducted (1992, 1997) and another will be conducted in 2002. However,
only the 1997 survey contained HIV/AIDS module in which women were interviewed. The 2002 survey
will also contain the HIV/AIDS module and will interview men and women. 1997 survey was done in 6
Faritany and 7,060 women were interviewed. Another survey (MICS, Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey)
surveyed 6,480 households in 2000, including 7,097 females with children under 5 years of age, and 5,984
males. It used the same sampling frame as the DHS and included a similar module on HIV/AIDS. It is
likely that this survey will also be repeated. Finally, there is the Enquete Prioritaire des Menages, which s
conducted every four years, and could in the future include questions on HTV/AIDS. The last survey was
conducted in 1999.
Capacity for Evaluation: Local capacity for evaluation is limited. Most national surveys have been
conducted by National Institute of Statistics (INSTAT) in close collaboration with international partners.
There is some capacity for qualitative studies and for small quantitative studies that has been generated
through projects conducted in collaboration with international partners. Thus, the success of any M&E
efforts will be dependent on the quality of the staff contracted and the close collaboration of partners with
representation in Madagascar that have been working in the field in the last few years. Possible
partnerships have been discussed with FHI, JSI, PSI and other donors present in Madagascar.
Evaluation of the Project: Overall evaluation of the project will be focused on two levels: the general
population, and specific target groups. Where possible, available data will be employed. In order to
measure overall impact of all prevention activities (including those conducted by other projects) sentinel
surveillance will be employed. However, given the weakness of the MOH's sentinel surveillance system,
the measurement of impact will focus on more intermediate variables such as behavioral change. Efforts
are being made to strengthen the surveillance system with Japanese Grant funds and funds from other
Donors, namely, USAID through CDC and the French Cooperation. Data from available surveys (DHS,
IvICS) will be used to measure behavioral change and knowledge. In addition, baseline and endline KAPB
surveys will be conducted in restricted populations to measure more in-depth behavior change in specific
target groups. Four target groups will be selected. Evaluation studies would be subcontracted out. The
IJGP would work closely with the contractor as counterpart to ensure adequate coordination.
4. Technical Support to Component 1 Pilots and Sectoral Plan Development
T'his component will provide support to the development of sector plans under Component 2 in two key
rmoments. First, it will provide follow-up to in-depth studies (focus group discussions with key target
- 84 -



audiences in each sector) prepared after the results of the baseline evaluation surveys are completed, to
obtain more in-depth information on the reasons behind specific trends identified in the survey. These will
be sector-specific and would provide inputs into the contents of IEC materials and approaches to be
adopted to work with the target groups within each sector. Secondly, this component would provide
support in the supervision of sector-specific pilot and operations research studies to identify and fine-tune
interventions to be scaled up through sectoral plans. The design of the studies would be subcontracted out.
Alliances with donor funded projects such as Horizons which conducts operations research to improve the
effectiveness of interventions to prevent the spread of HIV will be sought.
Approximately 12 small pilot and operations research projects would be designed and implemented to
identify and fine-tune interventions to be scaled up through sectoral plans. All eight sectors would conduct
at least one, and those that are better prepared to test new strategies, will conduct two studies during the
first two years of project implementation. These studies would range in cost from $40,000 to $80,000
each. They can involve demonstration projects used to fine-tune interventions, or quasi experimental
designs to test altemative approaches. The design of these studies would be subcontracted out. They would
be monitored by the M&E team.
5. Implementation Arrangements
The UGP will be responsible for monitoring project performance and contracting out the impact evaluation
of the project. The unit would be staffed with two capable M&E specialists, one to focus on the monitoring
of project activities and the other to be a counterpart to evaluation studies and to oversee the operations
research projects. The design of the latter would be subcontracted. It will also hire consultants to assist in
the monitoring of operations research and pilot projects. Funds would be available to contract consultant
services internationally and nationally to provide the necessary support. Local NGOs would be contracted
to assist in project supervision.
Given the experience of other donors on M&E and operations research, partnerships will be built to ensure
close collaboration and support for these activities. USAID's MEASURE project could provide support in
the approach to M&E and its instruments. HORIZONS could provide support in the operations research
studies. FHI/IMPACT could provide support in behavioral studies. And other NGOs present in
Madagascar, including JSI and PSI, among others, can provide support in the in-depth studies and the
target-group evaluation studies. Finally, DHS/ Macrosystems could provide support in the evaluation
surveys.
- 85 -



Additional Annex 15: Summary of the National Strategic Plan
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
I.     CONTEXTE
1. Madagascar, avec ses 15 millions d'habitants, avec un taux d'accroissement annuel de 2,8% et plus de
50% de moins de 20 ans, et pres de 70% dans les zones rurales, se trouve confronte au probleme des
maladies graves comme le VIH/SIDA.
2. Malgre la faiblesse du taux de prevalence annoncee actuellement, mais avec les facteurs de risque assez
eleves comme les IST, la pauvrete, les traditions et les cultures favorisant la propagation de ces maladies,
ainsi que d'autres facteurs de vulnerabilite de certains groupes comme les jeunes filles, le risque
d'explosion de cette maladie dans le pays est probable.
3. Madagascar avait dejA developpe 2 Progranmmes ou Plans A Moyen Terme (PMT I et 2), pour le suivi et
le traitement des affections opportunistes, chez les groupes vulnerables et les groupes A risque. D'apres les
etudes effectuees, le taux de prevalence est passe de 0,02% en 1989, a 0,07% en 1995, date de la derniere
enquete serologique. Ceci montre qu'il y a une progression exponentielle du taux de prevalence, et qui peuL
se traduire par les chiffres suivantes sur 1'effectifs probable de personnes seropositives. Sur une hypothese
basse, avec un taux de 0,5%, il y a environ 48500 personnes seropositives, et avec un hypothese forte, il
a pres de 112900 personnes seropositives.
4. Les IST sont assez frequentes chez les groupes A risque comme les travailleurs de sexe, alors que c'est
-galement une porte ouverte A la propagation de la maladie. 11 y a egalement les autres maladies dites
opportunistes qui peuvent etre li&es au VilI/SIDA.
5. Les differents modes de transmission de la maladie, que ce soit sexuelle, sanguine, ou par mere-enfant
sont importants, et necessitent des strategies de lutte ou de prevention adequates pour chaque cas, et pour
chaque region ou chaque secteur.
6. Cette maladie a de graves consequences sur le developpement economique, social et culturel du pays,
non seulement des impacts consequents pour les familles et les personnes vivant avec le VIHISIDA.
II.    LE CADRE STRATEGIOUE NATIONAL
7. Le PNLS (Programme National de Lutte contre les IST/SIDA), etait fonctionnel depuis 1998 au sein edu
Ministere de la Sante, avec ses differentes structures de mise en ceuvre: CNLS (Conseil National de Lutte
contre les IST/SIDA), CTC (Comite Technique de Coordination), des commissions techniques de travail.
CMSC (Comrit Mixte de Suivi et de Coordination).
8. La responsabilite de la mise en ceuvre et de la coordination de tout le programme etait le Ministere de la.
Sante. La responsabilisation des regions etait comprise dans les structures EMAD (Equipe de Management
au niveau du District), et les CRLS (Comite Regional de Lutte contre les IST/SIDA), dont les responsables
ont ete designes.
9. Les actions prioritaires dans ce programme sont: la formation dans les techniques de depistage rapide
du VIH pour la securite transfusionnelle, la prise en charge syndromique, la planification par objectif, les
techniques de communication, la surveillance de deuxieme generation ; les recherches coordonnees par 1a
- 86 -



Laboratoire Nationale de Reference VIH/SIDA, qui a e  mise place en 1990.
10. Actuellement, le Gouvernement a pris un engagement ferme dans la lutte contre ce flMau, et a mis en
place une Cellule de Coordination Nationale, rattachee au niveau de la Primature, afin d'elaborer et de
mettre en ceuvre un Plan Strategique National de lutte multisectorielle contre le VIH/SIDA.
les principes directeurs pour cette lutte multisectorielle, engageant chaque Ministere, chaque institution
publique ou privee, les ONG, la Societe Civile oeuvrant dans ce domaine, sont:
*  l'engagement politique au plus haut niveau
*  un Plan Strategique National Multisectoriel Integre servant de cadre de reference pour tous
* une coordination intersectorielle effective
*  un elargissement de la reponse nationale face a l'epidemie
* la decentralisation et la promotion de la reponse locale, communale
* la combinaison des strategies de communication grand public et la communication interpersonnelle
chez les groupes vulnerables
* 1'extension de l'experience << SIDA en milieu de travail )) dans les entreprises publiques et privees
  1'encadrement rapproche des groupes vulnerables et l'extension des strategies d'education par les
pairs, de relais communautaires et d'animateurs
*  1'extension de l'experience v< Club contre le SIDA > dans les etablissements scolaires
* l'implication des leaders politique, religieux, chefs coutumiers, parents d'eleves
*  le developpement de partenariat A tous les niveaux
*  le recours A des agences d'execution pour la mise en aeuvre
*  le renforcement institutionnel et le developpement des ressources humaines
-  la combinaison prevention et prise en charge medicale
-  la mise en confiance des personnes infectees/affectees par le VIW/SIDA
11. Les domaines prioritaires d'intervention, dans le cadre de cette lutte multisectorielle sont:
 le contr6le du risque d'explosion de I'epidemie de VIH/SIDA
*  les traitements, la prevention et la prise en charge des maladies sexuellement transmissibles
*  les actions contre le rejet ou la stigmatisation des personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA
*  la prise en charge psycho-sociale et medicale des personnes vivant avec le VIIH/SIDA
*  la prise en compte des groupes particuhlrement vulnerables comme les jeunes scolarises ou non,
les travailleurs de sexe, les militaires, les itinerants...
  les recherches sur les comportements
*  Ia fluidite des informations pour la population en general
*  I'analyse des situations de vulnerabilite, comme la pauvrete et la precarite, le faible pouvoir
d'achat...
*  la recherche sur les modes de transmission du VIH autres que sexuels
III.   LES OBJECTIFS ET STRATEGIES PRIORITAIRES
12. Les principaux objectifs generaux de ce Plan Strategique National sont:
*   Maintenir la prevalence du VIH en dessous du chiffre de 1% par la mise en ceuvre et l'intensification
de mesures preventives
*   Assurer le bien-etre des personnes vivat avec le VIH grace A leur prise en charge psycho-sociale et
medicale A travers la mise en ceuvre de mesures sociales, legales/juridiques et economiques specifiques
13. Les objectifs specifiques, permettant d'atteindre ces objectifs gen6raux sont:
a. Assurer la surveillance continue de l'infection par le VIH et du SIDA afin de contr6ler le risque
- 87 -



d'explosion de l'epidemie de VIH/SIDA dans le pays
b. Reduire de 50% la prevalence actuelle des infections sexuellement transmissibles (IST) autres que
le VIHISIDA
c. Instaurer un environnement social, ethique et juridique favorable au respect des droits et de la
dignite des personnes affect6es/infectees par le VIH/SIDA
d. Amener les jeunes scolarises et non scolarises, les travailleurs de sexe, les militaires, les itinerants
et les femmes en age de procreer a adopter des comportements sexuels a moindres risques
e. Assurer la prise en charge psycho-sociale et medicale des personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA
f. Reduire la vulnerabilite des populations face au VIH/SIDA
g. Accroitre les connaissances de la population malgache en matiere d'IST/SIDA afin d'en arnmliorer
la perception et de faciliter la prevention
h. Reduire la transmission du VIH par les modes autres que sexuels
IV.  LA MISE EN (EUVRE DU PLAN STRATEGIOUE
14. Concemant le financement, l'option (< Financement Individuel >> par agence a et adoptee. Chaque
agence partenaire garde les responsabilites de 1'ex6cution des ressources budgetaires qu'elle aura allouees.
Elle sera ainsi responsable de l'execution des composantes qui rel&vent de sa competence suivant les
methodes, les regles et les procedures habituelles. Mais bien qu'elle est le premier responsable redevable de
la reussite du projet et des fonds mis en place, chaque agence est egalement redevable de ses contributio:ns
financieres et des composantes couvertes par ces financements
15. Sur la Modalites de gestion, le leadership national est encourage avec le developpement du partenariat
international, en tenant compte de I'approche multisectorielle. II a ete convenu ce qui suit:
* Mettre en place un systeme de gestion de projet qui puisse a la fois etre perenne, et souple
* Rendre responsable la partie nationale
*  Permettre la participation effective des cinq piliers du partenariat : la societe civile, les Nations
Unies, le secteur prive, le Gouvemement et les bailleurs de fonds
16. Les modalites d'execution : Le programme sera execute selon les procedures specifiques en vigueur au
sein des agences d'aide et du Gouvernement. L'execution sera confiee au Gouvemement represente par
l'unite de coordination VIH et SIDA localis6e au sein de la Primature, avec une possibilite de recours aux
differents d6partements mninisteriels, aux agences des Nations Unies et aux ONGs pour ce qui concerne 1a
realisation.
17. Les autres organes de gestion et de coordination sont:
a) La Cellule de Coordination:
*   Elle a pour mandat de supervision generale et d'orientation globale du programme. Elle est
rattachee au sein de la Primature, et est pr6sidee par le Directeur de Cabinet. Elle sert de garant et
de balise politique de la mise en couvre de cette lutte multisectorielle dans son ensemble.
* Pour accomplir ses taches, la Cellule de Coordination sera compose de : de representants des
diff6rents ministeres concem6es directement par la lutte contre le VIHSSIDA, de representants des
institutions provinciales et regionales, de representants des ONG, associations ou groupements
oeuvrant dans le domaine de la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA, au niveau national, regional et local, de
representants de la societe civile
*   II procedera a la revue et a I'approbation du rapport consolide et fera les arrangements necessaires
en vue de sa soumission aux agences des Nations Unies, au Gouvemement et aux donateurs.
- 88 -



b) Bureau de coordination:
*   I1 a comme principaux mandats et attributions, la coordination, la supervision, le suivi et
l'evaluation du programme au niveau national. II prepare l'elaboration du Plan Strategique
National, avec les differents intervenants, ainsi que sa mise en aeuvre. n1 informe la population, en
permanence sur l'evolution de la maladie, sur l'engagement des parties prenantes et donne les
conseils pratiques.
*   II joue le r6le de facilitateur et de rassembleur, et iA mobilise les ressources necessaires, pour la
reussite du programme.
*   Pour accomplir ses taches, le BCN sera compose de : coordinateur national, qui est le Point Focal
National, de responsables de la planification et du suivi evaluation, de responsables des relations
avec les partenaires et de la mobilisation des ressources, de responsable du plaidoyer et de l'IEC, et
du personnel administratif et financier.
*   Le BCN sera appuye par des assistants techniques nationaux et internationaux, a court et moyen
terme, dans la realisation des travaux d'elaboration des politiques et plans strategiques nationaux,
ainsi que dans le suivi et l'evaluation des actions entreprises.
c) Conseil d'Orientation et de Suivi
* II a pour mandat et attributions d'orientation globale technique suivant les r6sultats de l'evaluation
presentes par le Bureau de Coordination
*   Le COS/SIDA participera donc a l'evaluation du programme, a travers des representants
nonmement designes par les parties prenantes ou par leurs institutions.
*   Le COS/SIDA est compose de la cellule de coordination, de representants du Gouvemement, de
representants des differents bailleurs de fonds, des agences d'execution, que ce soit publique ou
privees, des associations ou des ONG, nationales ou intemationales, des representants des
beneficiaires, de la population et des personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA, de la societe civile, du
Bureau National de Coordination
d) Bureaux et Comites Regionaux de coordination, qui ont les memes attributions que ceux du niveau
national et des celules SIDA pour chaque secteur.
-89-



Additional Annex 16: Coordination Mechanisms
MADAGASCAR: Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project
Coordination mechanisms regarding the MSPP between the GOM through the executive bureau of
the National Council, the Partnership through the UNAIDS Theme-group (Groupe elargi), and the
MSPP implementation unit
1.    National Strategic Plan (NSP): Annual implementation plans for the project are developed in
coordination with the BCN to ensure that project interventions fall within the framework of the NSP. As
such, the interventions are coordinated within the International Partnership (IP). The MSPP, under the
capacity building component, provides financial support to the improvement of the analytical basis of the
NSP and the different sector plans. This support falls within the IP agreement between the UNAIDS
Theme-group and the GOM.
2.    Technical review of sub-projects financed under the Fund: Sub-projects financed under the
Fund for an amount of US$25,000 and above will be reviewed on technical content to ensure their
relevance within the national strategy. Technical review of a sub-set of projects under US$25,000 may be
requested by the financial management agency or the project's implementation unit. The technical reviews
will be ensured by the technical agencies of the UNAIDS Theme-group under the IP agreement and bear no
additional costs to the GOM. This agreement has the additional advantage of close collaboration and
coordination of interventions between the Partners, the MSPP, and GOM, and will help to prevent
duplication of efforts at the local level. In order to prevent the technical review from becoming a
cumbersome bureaucratic hurdle, the technical agencies will have only 2 weeks to review the proposals.
and a list with pre-designated agencies per region and type of project will be developed before the end of
2002. In addition, the technical review results are communicated through the decentralized levels of the
financial management agencies, and only for those projects against which strong objections are raised, that
the central level will be involved. For project proposals with amounts over US$100,000 reviews will be
carnied out at the central level. (details can be found in the project procedures manual)
Selection of facilitators : Facilitators will be hired by the MSPP project to work with communities, NCOs,
and other locally based organizations to: (i) create awareness about HIV/AIDS; (ii) inform about the Fund
facilities; and (iii) assist with the writing of proposals. The Terms of Reference for the Facilitators and the
establishment of a short list will be coordinated with the UNAIDS Theme-group with the objective to use
existing knowledge and receive multiple inputs. The facilitators can be independent consultants, NGOs and
other organizations (details can be found in the procedures manual).
-90 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20035RI
MADAGASCAR                                                                             a                          /i.j
P,d rood%                                                                                     ",;i'i
- -            /AL~~~~~ouhrtes cesis4/01 enh futo riSO                       NOiiY-9eSmioxttt           ,,  .,,  
ttA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
0 f   ~~~~on-emrn *adsSt
V v   ;  f          2                           d         k           @'                  a,4ca
. . tsbrwrtnwlrtibeh ive st ry    npnbO  i.> .iZMAW     ,tnrt4
UFvvv  et H-vid res-0         |t- <                                                           ,
Ai,po,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ts                                       NTSIRA0,W                     .;
Notiami~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~DC E m1i to



