                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR0000842




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-35890 IDA-3589A)




                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
                   (US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                     REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                FOR A

           MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROJECT




                             June 25, 2008




AFTH3
AFMMG
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective April 16, 2008)

                                  Currency Unit = Ariary
                                   1.00 = US$ 0.000604
                                   US$ 1.00 = 1,656.34

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 ­ June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome       MIS     Management Information System
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy               MoH     Ministry of Health
CBO  Community-Based Organization              MSM     Men who have Sex with Men
CSW  Commercial Sex Worker                     NAC     National AIDS Council
DALY Disability-Adjusted Life Year             NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
DHS  Demographic and Health Survey             OED     Operations Evaluation Department
FMA  Financial Management Agency               PAD     Project Appraisal Document
GNI  Gross National Income                     PDO     Project Development Objective
GTZ  Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische      PHRD    Policy and Human Resources
     Zusammenarbeit                                    Development
HIV  Human Immunodeficiency Virus              PIU     Project Implementation Unit
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and PLWHA   Person Living With HIV/AIDS
     Development
IDA  International Development Association     PMTCT   Prevention of Mother-To-Child
                                                       Transmission
IDU  Injecting Drug Users                      PPF     Project Preparation Facility
IEC  Information, Education and                PSI     Population Services International
     Communication
ISR  Implementation Status Report              QAG     Quality Assurance Group
KAP  Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices        QER     Quality Enhancement Review
M&E  Monitoring and Evaluation                 STI     Sexually-Transmitted Infection
MAP  Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program            USAID   United States Agency for International
                                                       Development
MICS Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey         VCT     Voluntary Counseling and Testing


              Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director: Robert R. Blake
             Sector Manager: Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
       Project Team Leader: Maryanne Sharp
          ICR Team Leader: Patrick M. Mullen

                                             MADAGASCAR
                  Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project




                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information

 B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
 C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... v
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................viii
 H. Restructuring (if any)..............................................................................................viii
 I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. ix
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................. 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 60
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Multisectoral
Country:                Madagascar            Project Name:          STI/HIV/AIDS
                                                                     Prevention I Project
Project ID:             P072987               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35890,IDA-3589A
ICR Date:               06/25/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                     MADAGASCAR
Original Total
                        XDR 15.7M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 15.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
UGP/PMPS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/03/2001    Effectiveness:       11/12/2002          11/12/2002
Appraisal:             11/14/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/14/2001    Mid-term Review:     12/13/2004          12/23/2004
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              13                  13
Health                                                         77                  77
Other social services                                          10                  10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                       Secondary          Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                      Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary          Secondary
Population and reproductive health                           Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Robert R. Blake                  Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:           Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz          Arvil Van Adams
Project Team Leader:      Maryanne Sharp                   Claudia Rokx
ICR Team Leader:          Patrick M. Mullen
ICR Primary Author:       Patrick M. Mullen



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to support the Government of Madagascar (GOM) efforts to promote a
multisectoral response to the HIV/AIDS crisis and contain the spread of HIV/AIDS on its
territory. To do so, the project will build capacity and scale up the national response to
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STIs), a key risk factor and contributor to
the spread of HIV/AIDS.

  The project supports four components:
  1) Financial Assistance to the Development of Sector Plans and Pilots;
  2) A Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention and Non-Medical Care-taking Activities;
  3) Monitoring and Evaluation; and
  4)     Program Management and Strengthening of Institutional and Organizational
Capacity.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                An increase of condom use during last sex with non-regular partners among men
Indicator 1 :   from 2.3 % to 15%, and among women from 0.3% to 7% by the end of the
                project in Antananarivo and Tamatave.

Value           0.3% women                 7% women                           6% women

quantitative or 2.3% men                   15% men                            13% men

Qualitative)    (in Antananarivo &         (in Antananarivo                   (nationwide)
                Tamatave)                  & Tamatave)                        (2003-04 DHS)
Date achieved 11/26/2001                   12/31/2006                         01/01/2004
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was modified due to data availability (details in main text).
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Reduction of the proportion of people aged 15-49, having at least one sex
                partner, other than a regular partner in the last twelve months.
Value
quantitative or not available                                                 not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/26/2000                                                      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was modified due to data availability (details in main text).
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Decrease in prevalence of gonorrhea among CSW from 25% to below 15% by
                the end of the project
Value
quantitative or 25%                        15%                                not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/26/2001                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was modified due to data availability (details in main text).
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Increase proportion of people knowing at least three ways to prevent getting

               infected with HIV (women from 57% to 80% and men from 44% to 90%).
Value          57% women                  80% women                          42% women
quantitative or                                                              46% men
Qualitative)   44% men                    90% men                            (2003-04 DHS)
Date achieved 11/26/2001                  12/31/2006                         01/01/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator was modified due to data availability (details in main text).
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  By 2006, increase condom use during last sex to 35 percent among commercial
               sex workers (CSW)
Value          30%                                                           67%
quantitative or                           35%                                (2006 Behavioral
Qualitative)   (1995 survey)                                                 Survey)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/2006                         07/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator included in Credit Agreement.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values       Target Years
               Increase by 5 % annually the number of civil society organizations conducting
Indicator 1 :  HIV/AIDS prevention (promotion of safe sex, distribution of condoms)
               activities financed by the project.
                                                                             1,514 civil society
Value                                                                        organizations
(quantitative  0%                         20% increase                       conducted
or Qualitative)                                                              HIV/AIDS
                                                                             prevention
Date achieved 12/14/2001                  12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator included in Credit Agreement.
achievement)
               Increase the coverage of peer group IEC events financed by the project (one-on-
Indicator 2 :  one or small groups) by 10% annually among high risk groups (CSWs,
               uniformed men, miners, high school students).
                                                                             883,874 total
Value                                     10% annual                         participants in peer
(quantitative  0%                                                            group IEC (CSWs,
or Qualitative)                           increase                           youth 15-14 years,
                                                                             men and women)
Date achieved 12/14/2001                  12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator included in Credit Agreement.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Increase the number of condoms distributed and sold by private/NGO sector by
               20% annually.
Value
(quantitative  6 million annually                           12.4 million  6.8 million annually
or Qualitative)                                             annually

Date achieved 12/14/2001                                    12/31/2006    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator included in Credit Agreement.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     04/12/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/07/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     02/24/2003           Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                     1.29
  4     05/20/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     2.56
  5     12/08/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     5.35
  6     04/23/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     7.89
  7     12/01/2004           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    12.26
  8     05/31/2005           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    14.29
  9     12/27/2005           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    16.11
  10    07/28/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    17.93
  11    01/16/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    19.73

  12    07/17/2007           Satisfactory             Moderately
                                                    Unsatisfactory                    21.06

  13    11/28/2007          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               24.13



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The project was prepared in 2001 as part of the first phase of the World Bank's Multi-
Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP), approved by the Board in 2000. Madagascar is an
island country of 590,000 square km, with an estimated population in 2001 of 16 million.
Adult HIV prevalence in Madagascar was thought to be under 1%, although there was
great uncertainty due to questions about the reliability of surveillance data. Surveillance
by the Ministry of Health (MoH) indicated 0.05% prevalence in 1988, 0.09% in 1993 and
0.30% in 1998, interpreted in the National Strategic Plan for 2001-06 as "exponential"
growth.

Such indications of growth in prevalence, weakness in the surveillance system, and the
presence of the following risk factors led to the worry that the country may be on the
verge of a wider epidemic, following the path of other countries in the region.

·   The prevalence of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs), believed to be a major risk
    factor for HIV infection, was very high, as studies of pregnant women found 12%
    were infected with syphilis in 1995.

·   Risky sexual behavior was thought to be common. The 1997 Demographic and
    Health Survey (DHS) found that 38% of never-married women aged 15-24 reported
    having sex in the previous 12 months. Qualitative information on a number of social
    norms and practices raised concern, including early separation of adolescent girls
    from their families, and the practice of casual sex while traveling.

·   Utilization of condoms, a basic preventive measure, was low. In 1997, among those
    who had sex in the past 12 months, only 1% of women aged 15-49 used a condom the
    last time they had sex.

·   Knowledge of the disease was low. Although the 2000 Multiple Indicator Cluster
    Survey (MICS) found that 65% of women aged 15-49 had heard of HIV/AIDS, only
    30% knew the three major means of prevention: abstaining from sex, using condoms,
    or having sex with only one faithful and uninfected partner.

·   Stigma and fear were associated with the disease. Given the very low prevalence, the
    general population was hardly, if at all, affected by the disease. Infection was feared
    and vulnerable groups, such as sex workers, were socially marginalized. The
    existence of some vulnerable groups, such as men who have sex with men (MSM)
    and injecting drug users (IDU), was not recognized.

·   With an estimated gross national income (GNI) per capita of US$ 250 per capita in
    2001, poverty was considered a general risk factor, as the poor, less educated, and
    residents of rural areas, were less likely to know of HIV/AIDS and preventive
    measures, and to have less access to condoms and STI treatment. Transactional sex
    in return for economic support was thought to be common.

·   In a context of political and economic change, the island's exposure to the rest of the
    world was growing, particularly through increasing tourism.



                                               1

The first diagnosed case of HIV infection in Madagascar was in 1987. A National STI
and HIV/AIDS Control Program was established in 1988 under the Ministry of Health.
In 2001, in an effort to strengthen the multi-sectoral character of the response as well as
international partnerships, a National Coordination Cell was established under the Prime
Minister's Office with the responsibility for overall coordination and implementation of
the National Strategic Plan for 2001-06. The Plan's overall objectives were: i) to
maintain HIV prevalence below 1% through implementation of preventive measures;
and ii) ensure the well-being of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) through
psychosocial and medical support and social, legal and economic measures.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO is to support the Government of Madagascar's efforts to promote a
multisectoral response to the HIV/AIDS crisis and contain the spread of HIV/AIDS on its
territory. To do so, the project will build capacity and scale up the national response to
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STIs), a key risk factor and contributor to
the spread of HIV/AIDS. The key indicators are listed in Table 1.1

Table 1. Key project indicators


 i)   An increase of condom use during last sex with non-regular partners from 2.3% to 15% among
      men and from 0.3% to 7% among women by the end of the project in Antananarivo and Tamatave;
 ii)  Reduction of the proportion of people aged 15-49, having at least one sex partner, other than a
      regular partner in the last 12 months;
 iv)  Decrease in prevalence of gonorrhea among CSW from 25% to below 15% by the end of the
      project; and
 v)   Increase proportion of people knowing at least three ways to prevent getting infected with HIV
      (women from 57% to 80%, men from 44% to 90%); and
 vi)  By 2006, increase condom use during last sex to 35% among commercial sex workers (CSW).




1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Aides-memoire and Implementation Status Reports (ISR)
refer to the indicators specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), with
modifications in their formulations due to availability of data. The initial choices of
indicators reflected the situation of lack of data during project preparation, and they were
reformulated as survey and second-generation surveillance data (supported by the
project) became available. This did not require formal restructuring since the substance
of what was measured by the indicators (HIV/AIDS awareness and knowledge, sexual




1These are key performance indicators specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (26 November
2001), with the exception of indicator vi) which is included in an Annex to the Development Credit
Agreement (14 December 2001). Also, in the Annex to the Credit Agreement, indicator i) does not refer to
Antananarivo and Tamatave, while indicator ii) is formulated as follows, "By 2006, increase the proportion
of people aged 15-49 who have reduced the number of sexual partners in response to the perceived risk of
contracting HIV by 20 percent."


                                                      2

behavior, condom use, and STI prevalence), as well as the populations referred to by the
indicators (men, women, high-risk groups), were unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD states that the project will target the groups most vulnerable to HIV infection
and support the capacity of communities to prevent the spread of infection, at the same
time as benefiting the country's general population. Institutions dedicated to combating
HIV/AIDS are also expected to benefit from capacity building.

1.5 Original Components

Table 2. Project components


 1. Financial Assistance to Develop Sector Plans and Pilots (US $2.2 million)
      Development of plans for the prevention of HIV/AIDS in eight sectors: education, health,
      information/culture/communication, infrastructure, labor, population, rural development, and security. On
      the basis of these plans, pilot activities were to be implemented for eventual scale-up.
 2. Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Activities (US$ 15.0 million)
      Preventive Activities Fund to support: i) Sub-projects implemented by non-governmental organizations
      (NGOs) and community-based organizations (CBOs) including prevention and support activities such as
      mass media, workshops, peer communication, counseling and non-medical care and support; ii) Social
      marketing of condoms and STI treatment kits; iii) Marketing of the Fund and facilitation of sub-projects;
      iv) Operational costs of the Fund; and v) Strengthening the capacities of implementing entities. Financial
      management was to be handled by a contracted agent and technical support to implementing NGOs and
      CBOs was to be provided by contracted facilitators.

 3. Monitoring and Evaluation (US $ 1.8 million)
      Establishment of a management information system for the project, support to HIV/AIDS surveillance,
      surveys of target groups and evaluation and operational research studies.
 4. Project Management and Strengthening of Institutional and Organizational Capacity (US$ 2.0 million)
      Technical assistance, staffing, training and equipment for the HIV/AIDS coordination and implementing
      bodies, including the project implementation unit (PIU).



1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The government that took power in 2002, almost a year after project approval, made
significant changes to the institutional framework for the national HIV/AIDS response,
reflecting the new President's strong commitment to combating the disease.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement reflected the establishment of the National AIDS
Council (NAC) under the Presidency, replacing the previous coordination body.
Regional and local HIV/AIDS coordination structures were also to be created with
support from the project. In a major shift in implementation arrangements, a 2002
government decree assigned implementation of the project to the NAC Executive
Secretariat so that it essentially became the PIU.




                                                         3

In 2004 the government shifted somewhat the strategic focus of the Fund, although
within the broad parameters described in the PAD. The PAD indicated that the project
would support grassroots response by NGOs and civil society as well as scaling up of
ongoing preventive and care activities that address risk factors. In 2004 the government
put greater emphasis than had been the case to date on support to grassroots response by
civil society, although support to preventive and care services continued. The emphasis
shifted to support for micro-scale sub-projects (under US$ 3,000) implemented by CBOs
under a "local response" strategy. The menu of possible activities was as follows; i)
Advocacy with opinion leaders and communication through social networks; ii) Mass
communication; iii) Interpersonal communication and peer education; iv) Group
activities; and v) Psychosocial support to people affected and infected by HIV/AIDS. In
2006, the local response strategy adopted the additional goal of creating demand for
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), with VCT services being established with
Global Fund financing.

Other changes included: (i) amended allocations to expenditure categories (in 2005), to
purchase additional STI treatment kits and mobile cinemas, expand training, and increase
the number of NAC local offices; (ii) project extension (in 2006) by one year, largely due
to slower than expected disbursements that year; and (iii) increases in the proportion
financed by the credit for all expenditure categories to 100% to address problems due to
lack of counterpart funds which particularly affected local purchases of goods.2

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project design incorporated lessons from the experience of countries that seemed to have
been able to control the epidemic (particularly Uganda, Senegal and Thailand) and
reflected a balance between the MAP strategy (with a particular emphasis on the
multisectoral approach and involvement of civil society) and a more targeted service-
delivery approach, in particular by emphasizing STI treatment, condom distribution, and
scaling up of preventive interventions targeting "hotspot" areas. A Quality Enhancement
Review (QER) during preparation of the Madagascar project stated the following:

        "The Panel [...] urged the Region to take the opportunity to blend the best aspects of the
        MAP approach ­ participation, partnership, client-driven strategic direction, multi-
        sectoral, learning-by-doing, use of existing mechanisms, etc. ­ and the proven approaches
        to HIV/AIDS risk management in lower prevalence circumstances ­ targeting of high risk
        groups, intensive surveillance, tailored IEC and universal condom availability."

A Quality at Entry Assessment by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the design
Satisfactory, similarly stating that it "was very much tailored to the unique
epidemiological profile of Madagascar, rather than adopting a template that might have
been more convenient in the MAP context." The QAG assessment commended the




2Previously, in 2003, the proportion had been temporarily raised to 100% for all categories due to
exigencies of the 2002 political crisis.


                                                     4

project preparation team for involving the country team as a whole as well as, "despite
considerable difficulties," other partners and stakeholders.

High government ownership was also noted, although difficulty in the relationship with
the Ministry of Health (MoH) was suggested in the QAG report. The QAG assessment
focuses mostly on implementation arrangements, concluding that they were complex in
relation to the existing capacity, capacity-building activities were not clearly specified,
and numerous conditions of effectiveness relating to establishment of basic
implementation capacity indicated low readiness for implementation.

The QAG rated the risk assessment as satisfactory. Risks that were identified as
substantial were that PIU capacity would be insufficient to adequately manage the project
and that the public sector would fail to work adequately with the private sector and NGOs
to ensure the development of effective sector plans. Overall, the risk assessment is
focused on micro-level technical and implementation issues without stepping back to
assess the broad risks to whether the project strategy was adapted to the epidemiological
situation, given the uncertainty during preparation.3

Nevertheless, the need for better information and learning from pilot experiences is both
recognized in the PAD and reflected in the overall learning-by-doing strategy. The
project strategy drew on available epidemiological and behavioral studies of HIV/AIDS
in Madagascar as well as the experiences of previous and ongoing projects financed by
other donors, such as a condom social marketing program. A PHRD grant and the PPF
were also used to finance numerous studies and pilot interventions that informed the
project strategy. However, it is not clear that findings had an important influence on the
project during the early stages of implementation.

2.2 Implementation

The project was not formally restructured with regard to its objectives and indicators nor
did it have "at risk" status at any point. Implementation can be described in three phases.

i) Delays in effectiveness and start-up (2002). As noted above, implementation
     arrangements were significantly changed in 2002, bringing the PIU under the
     responsibility of the Executive Secretariat of the NAC. These changes came with a
     new government that took office following several months of political instability
     during 2002. Project preparation had been accelerated in order for the Credit
     Agreement to be approved by the 2001 parliamentary session, but this did not
     ultimately occur until the end of 2002. At the same time, capacity problems in the
     PIU delayed other effectiveness conditions, indicating that the QAG's concern about
     readiness for implementation was indeed founded. Project effectiveness was delayed
     to about a year after Board approval

ii) Acceleration in implementation (2003-05). The institutional changes at the end of
     2002 brought the project closer to decision-makers, particularly the NAC Executive


3The macro-level risk of political instability, which came to pass, was also not mentioned, although it is
difficult to see how the team could be prescient on this issue.


                                                      5

     Secretariat and, importantly, the new President who had strong public commitment to
     combating HIV/AIDS. These factors allowed for the project to take-off in 2003, as
     the planned implementation structures, particularly the Preventive Activities Fund
     and its contracted Financial Management Agent and Facilitating Organization, were
     put in place. The Facilitating Organization spurred a large number of sub-project
     applications ­ many of which were subsequently revealed to be of poor quality and
     possibly fraudulent ­ accelerating disbursement from the Preventive Activities Fund.
     By 2005, project disbursement was such that preparation of a repeater project was
     fast-tracked.

iii) Disbursement delays and extension (2006-07). The demands of coordination and
     policy development increasingly diverted attention of the NAC Executive Secretariat
     away from implementation of the project (this was one of the lessons, cited by the
     PAD, of a 2001 review of initial implementation of the MAP 1 projects). Until 2006,
     the project was the major source of financing for the national program, but with the
     start of implementation of a Global Fund grant by the NAC Executive Secretariat,
     attention and capacity was further diverted. At the same time, quality problems with
     the Preventive Activities Fund sub-projects led project management to put in place
     additional review steps and problems in their implementation led to delays. The
     contract of the Facilitating Organization was not renewed, leaving a gap with regard
     to support to project development and implementation by CBOs. Other factors
     affecting project disbursement during this period were a lack of counterpart funding,
     transfer from the country of key staff of partners and the Bank team, poor
     communication between project management and the Bank team, and diversion of
     attention to preparation and start-up of the repeater project. Disbursement delays
     caused the IDA project to be extended by one year (from end 2006 to end 2007).

The MAP template advocates decentralized and local control and implementation as well
as (perhaps somewhat in contradiction) warning against complex implementation
arrangements. On paper, the national HIV/AIDS program supported by the project in
Madagascar was decentralized, with regional and local coordination bodies. However,
the structure is better characterized as deconcentrated, as the regional coordination
committees reported to the national committee, which set overall strategic direction and
priorities. In addition, although the majority of projects were over this threshold (in line
with the local response strategy), sub-project proposals over US$ 3,000 required central
level approval.

Procedures for the Preventive Activities Fund became even more complex in
implementation than envisioned in the PAD, involving a variety of actors at different
levels, including the project steering committee, the NAC, the NAC Executive
Committee, a technical review body under UNAIDS, the Financial Management Agent
and its regional branches, the regional HIV/AIDS committees and their technical
coordinators, the Facilitating Organization and its regional branches, local HIV/AIDS
committees, and regional and local political and administrative authorities. As noted
above, quality problems in the first batch of sub-projects led to strengthened review
processes as well the decision to not renew the contract of the Facilitating Organization.
The number of actors involved and approvals required, combined with proposal



                                               6

development and reporting requirements that were often beyond the capacities of CBOs,
led to a slow process of approval and disbursement. Some of the procedural features of
the Fund inhibited the strategic coherence and continuity of the interventions, particularly
the very short time-frame of sub-projects (six months) and the absence of a mechanism to
encourage repeat projects and CBOs who have proven their capacity.

The multisectoral response supported by Component 1 showed weaknesses in
implementation, as line ministries showed poor engagement in developing sectoral
strategies and implementing pilot projects. Project financing for these activities was not
under the control of line ministries, and in a situation of many demands and low capacity,
the HIV/AIDS response was often not a priority. Subsequent to the mid-term review,
which identified this issue, efforts to strengthen coordination with the health sector were
evidenced by a formal accord between NAC and MoH in 2007 while greater coordination
with health services at the local level included establishing VCT services (financed by the
Global Fund) in health facilities rather than in stand-alone centers as was done previously.
Coordination with the health sector improved, while the education ministry implemented
HIV/AIDS activities financed by the project in collaboration with partners such as
UNICEF.

The project's mid-term review in 2004 and its 2006 evaluation of the Preventive
Activities Fund found that, consistent with the stated strategy of wide coverage of local
interventions, sub-projects were widely but thinly spread across about half of the
communes in the country. The assessment also found that communes considered to be
most vulnerable were not sufficiently targeted by sub-projects and that generally the
target populations of sub-projects represented a large proportion of the general population
(rural populations, women, youth). Later in the implementation period, the project
started modifying its local response strategy, supporting a mapping of vulnerable
communes and encouraging targeting of more specific vulnerable groups, and this
strategy has been adopted by the repeater project.

Overall, despite limitations, the project developed an effective implementation structure
both at the national and decentralized levels that did not exist before, including effective
implementation of the Preventive Activities Fund with the support of a contracted
financial management agent. Coordination structures, involving national and
international partners, were also effectively established at both the national and regional
levels.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The monitoring and evaluation plan had two axes: i) monitoring of project activities;
and ii) measurement of the broader impact of the project and the national program as a
whole. Monitoring of project activities, particularly the Fund sub-projects, was to be
based on a management information system (MIS). After significant effort, a database
was put in place by the Financial Management Agent that was effective in providing
information on financial inputs. The project compiled basic output information (number
condoms distributed, number of people reached by awareness-raising activities, etc) from
sub-project reports but links to the financial data are not effectively made as intended.



                                               7

Community-based monitoring mechanisms, mentioned in the PAD, were not put in place.
Nevertheless, both the financial database and compilation of information on outputs were
regularly reported and broadly influenced strategy, for example with regard to the
geographical distribution, target groups and technical content of the sub-projects. This
was supplemented by a significant number of field evaluations of sub-projects by project
management. Evaluations of the sectoral pilot projects financed by Component 1 were
done and a technical evaluation of the sub-projects financed by the Preventive Activities
Fund was initiated late in the implementation period.

Measurement of the broader impact of the project and the national program was to be
done largely by surveys to measure behavior. Improvement in disease surveillance,
implemented by MoH, was to be supported by other donors. The project nevertheless
supported a second-generation surveillance sero-prevalence survey4 of pregnant women
in 2003 that found 1.1% prevalence and this had a significant impact on the broader
strategic discussion. It raised the possibility that the epidemic was spreading into the
general population, supporting the shift in emphasis to mass awareness-raising through
community-level micro-projects. The project contributed financing to the 2003-04 DHS,
which similarly influenced the national program as well as the project, as it showed
progress on HIV/AIDS awareness, but still-high prevalence of reported STI symptoms
and persistently low condom utilization rates. These findings supported the project's
continued financing of STI treatment and condom distribution and led to a greater focus
on these issues in the repeater project. Second-generation surveillance behavioral
surveys of vulnerable groups (youth, pregnant women, truckers, soldiers, sex workers)
were financed by the project in 2004 and 2006, while sero-prevalence surveys of specific
groups were done in 2005 and 2007. These studies were instrumental in filling
knowledge gaps about the epidemic, and their findings contributed to a shift back towards
a more targeted approach near the end of the project but were mostly influential on the
repeater project. They also provided baseline estimates for M&E of the repeater project.
The project financed a number of analytical studies including vulnerability mapping,
qualitative studies of high-risk groups and an analysis of the epidemiological situation
that brought together the various sources of data.

After the mid-term review, the NAC Executive Secretariat strengthened its M&E
capacity by hiring M&E specialists and developing with partners an M&E plan for the
national program. Overall, the project made significant progress in strengthening M&E
of both the project itself and the national program, with some weaknesses with regard to
regular linking and analysis of the available data in order to influence operations and
policy, although study findings did have important impacts at the strategic level.




4The second generation of HIV/AIDS surveillance emphasized "active surveillance," involving sero-
prevalence and behavioral surveys of target populations located in broadly geographically-representative
surveillance sites (opposed to passive surveillance based on screening of clients of routine services, usually
antenatal care). These surveys, however, cannot be considered population-representative in the same way
as household surveys such as the DHS and MICS, since the sites are not randomly-selected.


                                                      8

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was compliant with safeguards requirements, adopting the environmental
assessment and medical waste management plan developed under an IDA-financed health
project as well as supporting implementation, notably by financing health staff training
and construction of 22 hospital incinerators. After initial problems during project start-up
related to limited capacity in the PIU, financial management and procurement were
generally satisfactory. They were rated unsatisfactory for a period in 2006 when capacity
of the implementation agency was insufficient. Audits determined that the project
incurred about US$ 50,000 in ineligible expenditures. Delays in counterpart funding of
the required proportions of expenditure categories affected implementation and led to
adoption of 100% financing by the credit during the last year of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The US$ 30 million Second Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project was
prepared in 2005 in anticipation that the first project would be fully disbursed earlier than
planned. Disbursement problems in 2006-07, however, required an extension to the first
project and delayed the effective start-up of the second project. Approved in July 2005,
the second project became effective in January 2006 but started significant disbursements
only towards the end of 2007 for the reasons that affected the first project discussed
above. The second project uses the same implementation mechanisms and adopts
broadly the same strategy as the first project. The main differences are as follows.

·   Stronger focus on high-risk groups in areas known to have a higher prevalence than
    other regions, including mandating that 75% of the Preventive Activities Fund will be
    targeted to these areas and specifying key outcome indicators that refer to high-risk
    groups (sex workers, truck drivers, soldiers).

·   Emphasis on working to achieve changes in behavior among specific groups as
    opposed to mass awareness-raising.

·   Much more focused multisectoral strategy, aiming at only the health, education and
    security sectors.

·   Stronger role for the health sector is exemplified by a project component to finance
    health services, particularly STI treatment and care and treatment of PLWHAs.

·   Emphasis on analysis of surveillance and M&E data.

These adaptations, notably the greater focus on high-risk groups and service-delivery,
reflect a re-shifting of the strategic orientation of the first project late in its
implementation. However, the second project does not address the possible limitations
with the implementation arrangements discussed above (capacity problems, complexity,
centralized decision-making combined with a deconcentrated structure, the combined
policy/coordination and implementation roles of the NAC Executive Secretariat). Such
problems became manifest with disbursement delays during start-up of the repeater
project in 2006-07. The repeater project adds to the already large number of actors
involved in implementation by planning for a contracted M&E agent. There is evidence,
however, that the government is resistant to significant contracting of external entities,
particularly internationally-based. Although the Financial Management Agent is


                                                9

currently operating, neither the planned M&E agent nor the NGOs to be contracted as
Facilitating Organizations have been put in place. Alternative methods (ie. more directly
supporting and using government structures) to improve M&E and provide support to
implementing CBOs should be explored.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

One of the eight priorities of the 2007-12 Madagascar Action Plan is a commitment to
health, family planning and combating HIV/AIDS, with the specific objective of keeping
adult HIV prevalence under 1%. In addition, the President continues to show strong
commitment in this area. The 2007-11 Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
supports the Madagascar Action Plan, including the HIV/AIDS objective.

The epidemiological situation in Madagascar also remains similar to 2001, as HIV
prevalence among adults remains under 1% while many risk factors for expansion of the
epidemic are still in place. The project was designed in a context where the high STI
prevalence in particular led to the fear that the epidemic could be on the verge of
exploding. Although the information base has vastly improved since then with the
various sero-prevalence and behavior surveys, the notion that the country is at great risk
remains current.

Is the project relevant to this epidemiological situation? The 2000 MAP template
provides guidance on strategies for countries with low and stable prevalence (defined as
under 5% among adults) and those with high and growing prevalence. Although
including behavior change communication (BCC) interventions targeting high-risk
groups, the guidelines for low prevalence countries do not emphasize this and also
recommend scaling-up existing interventions to national scale as well as wide access to
VCT. Generally, a variety of evaluations, particularly 2004 and 2007 reviews of the
MAP as well as a 2005 study by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED),
have noted a lack of sufficient emphasis by the MAP projects on interventions targeting
high-risk groups. Consequently, the Bank's 2007 strategy for phase two of the MAP
contains a greater emphasis on prioritization and targeting, particularly in lower-
prevalence situations.

The Madagascar project adapted the MAP approach ("non-medical" multi-sectoral and
community-based interventions) to the country context, particularly by including support
to service delivery (STI treatment and condom distribution) and specifying that
vulnerable areas ("hotspots") and groups would be targeted. Throughout implementation
the project maintained a balance between these two approaches. Although the shift in
emphasis to broad coverage of community-based activities (and of VCT services) swung
the pendulum one way a the midpoint of the project, the project continued to support
NGO-implemented programs targeting specific groups as well as distribution of condoms
and STI treatment kits. The pendulum swung back towards more a more targeted and
service-oriented approach during the last years of the project, spurred by lessons learned




                                              10

(ie. the mid-term review and 2006 evaluation of the Fund), better data on high-risk
groups, as well as the global discussion on the lessons of the first phase of the MAP.

At the same time, it is not clear that an even greater focus on targeted prevention and
service delivery would have been appropriate or even possible. First, there was very little
information available on high-risk groups both due to lack of data and to high levels of
stigma. Government and some partners suggest that population-wide awareness and
stigma of the disease needed to be addressed before greater emphasis on high-risk groups
was possible. A related notion is that it was necessary to address the broader population
in order to reach those "bridge" groups who have contact with the traditional high risk
groups but are difficult or impossible to identify. At the same time, the IDA project was
only part of the national program, with other parts supported by other donors, particularly
VCT services financed by the Global Fund and NGO-implemented services (for example
health services targeting groups such as sex workers as well as condom social marketing)
financed by bilateral donors. Finally, the fear of a generalized epidemic underlay the
strong political commitment to a population-wide and community-level response.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO is to support the Government of Madagascar to promote a multisectoral
response to the HIV/AIDS crisis and contain the spread of HIV/AIDS on its territory. To
do so, the project was to scale up the national response to both HIV/AIDS and sexually
transmitted infections (STIs), considered a key risk factor and contributor to the spread of
HIV/AIDS.

The strategy was to increase knowledge of HIV/AIDS and STIs, incite changes in
behavior (risky sexual behavior and condom utilization), increase demand for relevant
services (condoms, STI treatment, VCT), and improve coverage of services. Key
indicators measured performance on these various aspects of the strategy. A number of
indicators were modified due to data availability, with many relying on second-
generation surveillance behavioral and sero-prevalence surveys supported by the project
between 2004 and 2007. Indicator estimates are provided in Table 3. Data sources are
the 2003-04 DHS and a series of second-generation surveillance surveys of large sample
sizes of specific at-risk groups, and are considered to be of good quality.

Awareness and Knowledge. An important focus of the project was to improve
population-wide awareness and knowledge of STIs and HIV/AIDS, particularly through
community-level activities, in order to reduce stigma, encourage behavior change and
stimulate demand for services. The project was the major source of financing for this
part of the national strategy. In the context of the multisectoral approach supported by
Component 1, only three of the eight sectors successfully implemented pilot projects.
However, the component also supported mass communication activities that included
radio and television programming, distribution of over 4,000 solar/hand-powered radios
accompanied by the creation of community listening groups, distribution of school
materials, pamphlets and activity kits, and a toll-free question line (ligne verte)
particularly-used by youth. Along with other partners, the project contributed to a mobile
cinema program. A total of 3,355 sub-projects were financed by the Preventive



                                             11

Activities Fund, of which 2,611 were implemented by CBOs. The vast majority focused
on communication and education at different levels: population-wide, community, and
interpersonal. However, the communication efforts focused on HIV/AIDS, neglecting
awareness and knowledge about STIs

Table 3 indicates that HIV/AIDS awareness and knowledge increased among women
(ages 15-49) in the general population between 2000 and 2003-04, as well as among
youth (ages 15-24), sex workers, truckers and soldiers. Trends in additional indicators of
the knowledge of women aged 15-49 between 2000 and 2003-04 measured by household
surveys similarly show improvement. For example, in 2000, 36% of women knew that
condoms helped prevent infection (2000 MICS), compared to 51% in 2003-04 (2003-04
DHS).

An indicator for stigma shows improvement, even though at a low level, as around 8% of
young men and women said they had a positive attitude towards persons infected with
HIV in 2004, compared to around 14% in 2006. This is notable given the notion
discussed above that the project helped reduce stigma, thereby allowing a more robust
targeting of high-risk and marginalized groups later in the project and by the repeater
project. Anecdotal evidence indicates that stigma remains high but has ameliorated, as
PLWHA have started to present themselves publicly and the existence of men who have
sex with men (MSM) and injecting drug users (IDU) has started to be acknowledged.

Sexual Behavior. One of the points of communications activities is to influence sexual
behavior. The 2001 PAD indicates that evaluations of IEC programs in Madagascar
indicated that they generally focused on providing information rather than on changing
behavior, and that this would be addressed by the project. Estimates for the revised
indicator given in Table 3 suggest that, compared with 2004, a lower proportion of young
women in 2006 reported sex with more than one partner, but men reported an increase in
risky sexual behavior. On the other hand, similar behavioral surveys found that among
soldiers, 40% reported more than one partner in 2004, compared to 35% in 2006. Among
truck drivers, the proportions were 48% in 2004 and 39% in 2006.

The 2005 PAD for the repeater project echoes the first PAD, stating that communication
efforts until that point focused on raising awareness so that the program should then turn
to emphasizing change in behavior. Nevertheless, the available evidence on change in
sexual behavior is mixed, suggesting that among some groups the practice of riskier
sexual behavior has lessened.

Condom Utilization. Increased use of condoms is another change in behavior intended to
be encouraged by project activities. On the demand side, an important component of
communication activities was to raise encourage condom use as a means of prevention.
On the supply side, the national program, with contributions from various partners,
distributed a total of 67 million condoms during the project period, of which about 20
million were financed by the project. In collaboration with other partners, the national
program introduced a new condom brand and marketing specifically targeting young
people, who the data showed were more likely to use them.



                                             12

Table 3. Key indicators

                                                                     Baseline                    2003-04                           Outcome 2006-07

 Awareness and knowledge
     Original key indicator
            Increase the proportion of women (from 57% to       30% women           42% women                            not available
            80%) and men (from 44% to 90%) who know at          (2000 MICS)         46% men
            least three ways to prevent HIV infection                               (2003-04 DHS)
     Revised indicator
            Proportion of women and men aged 15-24, sex         not available       57% women                            66% women
            workers, truckers and soldiers who know three                           63% men                              67% men
            ways to prevent HIV infection                                           50% sex workers                      61% sex workers
                                                                                    52% truckers                         55% truckers
                                                                                    48% soldiers                         53% soldiers
                                                                                    (2004 Behavioral Survey)             (2006 Behavioral Survey)

 Sexual behavior
     Original key indicator
            Reduction of the proportion of people aged 15-      not available       not available                        not available
            49, having at least one sex partner, other than a
            regular partner in the last 12 months5


     Revised indicator
            Proportion of women and men aged 15-24 years        not available       26% women                            22% women
            who had more than one sexual partner in the                             39% men                              44% men
            previous 12 months                                                      (2004 Behavioral Survey)             (2006 Behavioral Survey)




5In the Annex to the Credit Agreement, this indicator is formulated as follows: "By 2006, increase the proportion of people aged 15-49 who have reduced the
number of sexual partners in response to the perceived risk of contracting HIV by 20 percent." Available data do not allow for attribution of change in sexual
behavior to increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS, and indeed this is likely impossible to measure.




                                                                               13

                                                                 Baseline                     2003-04                    Outcome 2006-07

 Condom utilization
     Original key indicator
           By 2006, increase condom use during last        30%                   77%                            67%
           sex to 35 percent among commercial sex          (1995 survey)         (2004 Behavioral Survey)       (2006 Behavioral Survey)
           workers (CSW)6
     Original key indicator
           An increase of condom use during last sex       0.3% women            6% women                       not available
           with non-regular partners from 2.3% to 15%      2.3% men              13% men
           among men and from 0.3% to 7% among             (in Antanarivo and    (nationwide)
           women by the end of the project in              Tamatave)             (2003-04 DHS)
           Antanarivo and Tamatave.7                       (data source not
                                                           documented)
     Revised indicator
           Condom use by sexually-active women and         not available         20% women "commercial" sex     25% women "commercial" sex
           men aged 15-24 for "commercial" and "non-                             15% women "non-commercial" sex 19% women "non-commercial" sex
           commercial" sex                                                       24% men "commercial" sex       20% men "commercial" sex
                                                                                 20% men "non-commercial" sex   16% men "non-commercial" sex
                                                                                 (2004 Behavioral Survey)       (2006 Behavioral Survey)

 STI prevalence
     Original key indicator
           Decrease in prevalence of gonorrhea among       25%                   not available                  not available
           commercial sex workers (CSW) from 25%           ( not documented)
           to below 15% by 2006
     Revised indicator
           Prevalence of syphillis among commercial        31%                   18% (symptoms)                 12% (sero-prevalence)
           sex workers (CSW)                               (1995 survey)         (2004 Behavioral Survey)       (2007 Sero-Prevalence Survey)




6This key indicator is included in the Annex to the Credit Agreement but not the PAD.
7Antananarivo and Tamatave are not mentioned in the Annex to the Credit Agreement.




                                                                              14

In line with this strategy, as well as due to data availability, a key indicator was been
modified to refer to condom use by youth (ages 15-45), which increased with
"commercial" partners for both men and women. With regard to "non-commercial"
partners, women reported increased condom use while there was slight decline reported
by men (Table 3). Another key indicator referred to condom utilization by sex workers,
which was measured to have declined from 77% in 2004 to 67% in 2007. However, this
high level of utilization can be compared to a 1995 survey estimate of 35%. Similar
studies among other high risk groups found that in 2004, 78% of soldiers reported using a
condom with their most recent "commercial" partner, while the proportion in 2006 had
declined to 71%. Among truck drivers, in 2004, 68% reported using a condom with their
most recent "commercial" partner, while in 2006 the proportion was similar at 69%.

Both key indicators for the project relate to condom use during higher-risk sex and the
available data indicate that this has increased among youth and is at high levels among
more specific high-risk groups (sex workers, soldiers and truck drivers), although
reported utilization seems to have declined between 2004 and 2006-07 for sex workers
and soldiers. Among all of these specific groups, reported condom use is significantly
lower for sex with "non-commercial" partners, suggesting that people generally are less
likely to use condoms during sex that they may consider less risky. Consistent with this,
overall condom use measured by population-representative surveys remains very low,
although it has increased over time. In 1997, among all women aged 15-49, 0.7%
currently used condoms, increasing slightly to 1.1% in 2003-04. Condom use by
unmarried sexually-active women was low, but increased from 2.6% in 1997 to 5.8% in
2003-04.

STI Prevalence. Access to treatment and condom use are considered important
determinants of change in STI prevalence. With regard to treatment, the project
contributed to the government's program along with the IDA-financed health project and
other partners, notably USAID and the NGO Population Services International (PSI).
Standard treatment kits, developed in order to reduce prescription errors and improve
access to effective treatment, were social marketed by PSI through the private sector and
were also adopted by the government for highly-subsidized distribution through public
sector health facilities. The two complementary channels significantly increased access
to effective STI treatment. The project financed over 1.3 million kits and training of
4,480 public and private sector health workers in the syndromic approach to the
management of patients with STIs. The project also financed 200,000 diagnostic kits for
syphilis screeing of pregnant women. According to the health information system, the
annual number of STI cases reported by primary health care services rose from around
90,000 in 2000 to about 200,000 in 2001-02, 260,000 in 2003, coming down somewhat to
150,000-175,000 in 2004-06. These figures do not include large numbers of people who
self-treated using social marketed kits.




                                              15

One of the project's key indicators was changed to refer to syphilis due to data
availability. Although available data suggest improvement between the 1990s and 2007,
differing methodologies prevent valid comparison between 2005 and 2007 (Table 3).8
Nevertheless, comparable sero-prevalence estimates from studies of pregnant women
indicate a decline from 8.2% in 2003 to 4.4% in 2007.

HIV Prevalence. HIV prevalence is no longer used as an indicator for such projects due
to a variety of measurement and attribution issues. Nevertheless, in the Madagascar
context, every piece of evidence points to adult prevalence remaining under 1% due to
consistently low incidence, although there are indications of growth in the epidemic in
some geographic areas and among some groups.9 Among the general population, as
coverage of VCTs expanded, the proportion who tested positive declined from 0.22% in
2004 to 0.05% in 2007.10 Among pregnant women, the 2003 survey found 1.10%
prevalence, while a 2005 survey found 0.15%, and a 2007 survey found 0.21%. Among
STI patients, HIV prevalence remained at 0% between 1990 and 1999, rising to 0.64% in
2000, 0.7% in 2005 and 0.28% in 2007. Among commercial sex workers, measured
prevalence was similarly 0% between 1990 and 1996, but 0.25% in 1998, 1.28% in 2005
and 0.52% in 2007. In 2008, only 158 people in the country have been identified as HIV-
positive and receive treatment.

Why HIV prevalence has remained so low despite the continuing presence of risk factors
is not known, although possible factors could be the continuing relative isolation of the
island, the nearly universal male circumcision, the possibility that STIs are not as an
important risk factor as previously thought, and perhaps other unknown biological factors.
At the same time, a number of the factors targeted by the national program, and this
project in particular, postulated to have an impact on the spread of the epidemic, have
shown improvement. The IDA project was a major component of the national program,
representing over 50% of available financing during the period of implementation.

3.3 Efficiency

A number of studies of specific programs have provided cost-effectiveness estimates for
the interventions supported by the project, ranging from US$ 67 to 5,213 per averted
infection, and US$ 1 to 261 per Disability Life Year Saved (DALY). For most of the
interventions, estimated cost per DALY is under US$ 300 and usually under US$ 100.11




8The 2003, 2005 and 2007 studies were second-generation surveillance surveys that measured prevalence
by serological test.
9This discussion is based on a draft analysis of the epidemiological situation financed by the project in
2007, as well as the project-financed 2003 sero-prevalence survey of pregnant women, and the 2005 and
2007 sero-prevalence surveys of pregnant women, STI patients and sex workers (the results for 2007 are
not yet official).
10This is due to the fact that the first VCTs were established in cities and higher prevalence areas,
expanding to rural and lower-prevalence areas. The 2007 figure is for the period up to October.
11World Bank (2007) The World Bank's Commitment to HIV/AIDS in Africa: Our Agenda for Action,
2007-2011, Washington, (citing Bertozzi et al., 2006).


                                                      16

This can be compared to estimated costs per DALY of treatment of childhood illnesses of
US$ 9 to 219, and US$ 82 to 409 for maternal and neonatal care.12

Simulations of different prevalence situations may lead to a different conclusion.13 In a
lower prevalence situation, the models indicate that prevention among sex workers (SW)
and men who have sex with men (MSM) are the most cost-effective, while blood safety,
condom distribution, prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT), and
workplace programs have a medium level of cost effectiveness. The models suggest that
community mobilization, mass media, STI treatment, and education interventions are
least cost-effective in a low prevalence situation. These are among the most important
activities supported by the project, even though the project also supported condom
distribution and some interventions targeting sex workers. Nevertheless, such models
cannot account for the particular circumstances of each country. For example, it is clear
that in Madagascar, despite its low HIV prevalence, the high STI rates make condom
distribution and STI treatment more cost effective than in other contexts.

Over the course of six years, from approval end-2001 to completion end-2007, the
average annual cost of the project was US$ 3.5 million or approximately US$ 0.20 per
capita. The IDA project represented approximately half of total HIV/AIDS financing
during this period (so that total HIV/AIDS financing averaged US$ 0.40 per capita
annually). This average annual total HIV/AIDS funding during the period was equivalent
to about 7% of total public sector health spending (domestic and international) of about
US$ 6 per capita in 2005 and to about 14% of international donor support to the sector
(which represented about half of total public sector spending).14 Average annual total
HIV/AIDS financing also represented approximately 4% of average annual development
aid to the country (excluding debt relief) during the 2002-07 period.

On the one hand, there are clearly more significant health problems causing a much
larger burden of morbidity and mortality in the country. In a situation of very low public
financing for health services, it may be questioned whether this was the best use of
available international funds. On the other hand, the low prevalence situation is precisely
the moment when it may be most appropriate (and efficient) to make significant
investments to prevent expansion of the epidemic, a point made by an influential 1999
World Bank report that analyzed the evolution of the epidemic in other countries up to
that point.15 The equivalent of 7% of total public sector health spending was probably not
an unreasonable investment to attempt to reduce the risk of growth in the epidemic.




12Jamison, D. et al. (eds.) (2006) Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries (Second Edition),
Oxford University Press and the World Bank, New York and Washington.
13World Bank (2008) The World Bank's Commitment to HIV/AIDS in Africa: Our Agenda for Action,
2007-2011, March, (citing Bollinger and Stover, 2007).
14Source for health spending data is WHO.
15World Bank (1999) Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic (Revised Edition),
Oxford University Press, New York.


                                                    17

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project is relevant to current priorities. Although there may be debate over the
question of whether the project was fully relevant to the epidemiological situation, it
maintained a balance between the MAP strategy of advocacy, awareness-raising and
community-mobilization, and more targeted and service delivery-oriented interventions.
With regard to achievement of the PDO, for the most part, progress is evident on the key
indicators. The major contribution of the project to raising awareness and knowledge is
evident. There is mixed evidence with regard to changes in sexual behavior. Although
condom use among the general population remains low, utilization levels are higher when
sex is perceived as more risky, and condom use is at high levels among high-risk groups.
The project has likely significantly contributed to a reduction in STI prevalence. The
interventions supported by the project have been found to be cost-effective in other
contexts.

The project represented the major part of the national program during its first four years
of implementation, financing significant institutional development at the national,
regional and local levels.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and gender disparities contribute to HIV/AIDS risk factors, for example
commercial and transactional sex. Project activities increased awareness of such risky
sexual behavior among communities, drawing attention to their economic and social roots.
The Preventive Activities Fund adopted a strong focus on community-based activities in
rural areas, where the population is generally poorer than in urban areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

In line with the capacity-building aspect of the PDO, the project had a significant impact
on institutional capacity, with the greatest effect at national and local levels, involving
creating the program under the Presidency and creation of regional and local HIV/AIDS
committees and plans. Among the 1,549 communes, local HIV/AIDS committees were
put in place in 1,014, of which 664 are reported to be effectively operational and 519
have developed local action plans. Considering the strength of the central NAC and its
regional and local structure, essentially a new HIV/AIDS "sector" has been created, even
though multisectoral interventions at the local level developed over the course of the
project. The mixed policy and implementation role of the NAC was replicated at the
regional level, causing similar diversion of attention from strategy and coordination to
implementation of the Preventive Activities Fund. Among line ministries, the
multisectoral strategy supported by Component 1 did not lead to significant institutional
capacity-building, although implementation coordination with the health and other
sectors improved improved towards the end of the implementation period and led to a
health sector component of the repeater project.




                                              18

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Two related possibly unintended outcomes are evident. First, it is likely that in many
communities, particularly in rural areas, mobilization interventions supported by the
project may be among the few such activities bringing people together in a common
forum for discussion. For example, the listening groups formed around the hand-
powered radios surely do not confine their discussions to HIV/AIDS issues but must raise
and address other community concerns. The mobile cinemas also brought communities
together, spurring wide-ranging discussion. A second and related point is that, by raising
awareness, reducing stigma, and openly discussing sexual issues, project activities have
likely contributed to opening space for discussion of reproductive health issues more
broadly as well as to greater tolerance for diversion from traditional norms. For example,
a toll-free phone line (ligne verte) supported by the project provides youth in a particular
with a forum for questions and discussions about sexuality and reproductive health.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Although the project contributed to improvements in various risk factors, the risk of
growth in the epidemic remains. For example, although improved, STI rates remain high,
high-risk sexual behaviors remain prevalent and condom use among the general
population remains low. At the same time, the country continues to experience greater
economic and social openness to the outside world (for example through mining and
tourism) that contributed to the fear of the epidemic that was evident during project
preparation. The repeater project, benefiting from significant advances in knowledge of
the shape of the epidemic, and focusing on vulnerable areas and groups in a context of
greater population-wide awareness and reduced stigma, contributes to mitigating the risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed above, project design was based on the MAP strategy but adapted to the
country context. At the same time, project design, particularly the Preventive Activities
Fund, was sufficiently flexible to accommodate the government's shift in emphasis
towards population-wide community mobilization for prevention ­ and an eventual shift
back towards a more targeted approach. Nevertheless, complexity of the implementation
arrangements likely contributed to delays.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory



                                              19

The Bank team was prompt in providing support when capacity problems became evident.
A possible exception was 2006, when the project experienced significant disbursement
delays and ultimately needed to be extended by one year, partly due to communication
problems between the Bank team and the Client. Nevertheless, the team recovered the
situation by instituting regular video-conferences, stepping-up supervision and extending
the project completion date. At the same time, it is evident that the team's input on
technical issues during supervision was consistently of high quality, aided by the
presence of health specialists in the field throughout most of the implementation period.
In particular, the team's technical input provided a balance to the government's strong
emphasis on community-based communication activities, contributing to maintenance of
support for more targeted and service delivery-oriented activities. The Bank team closely
collaboration with other partners, including bilateral donors, multilateral institutions and
NGOs, on technical and strategic issues, contributing to the national program's success in
for the most part ensuring complementarities between different projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The design of the project, which contributed to its Satisfactory Overall Outcome Rating,
combined with the Bank team's responsiveness to implementation issues and work on
technical issues, justify an overall rating of Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Delays in start-up were largely due to institutional uncertainties and capacity limitations,
combined with a political crisis in 2002. However, this became vastly outweighed by the
strong political commitment and leadership provided by the President, shown to be an
essential factor to effective HIV/AIDS responses in other countries. However, along with
this commitment came close political attention to project operations, particularly the sub-
projects financed by the Preventive Activities Fund. There was poor engagement by
many of the sectors involved in the multisectoral approach, although lessons from this
have been translated into a more focused approach in the repeater project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Consistent with the strong presidential commitment, the NAC Executive Secretariat
provided clear strategic direction and strong leadership to the national program and the
project. The Executive Secretariat quickly spurred the project to recover from its start-up
delays and effectively steered it through the mid-term shift in strategy. It also effectively
coordinated the various sources of donor financing as the complementarities between the
IDA project and the Global Fund program illustrates. Related to this however, are the
capacity problems that the Executive Secretariat experienced when adopting this
"programmatic" approach, as it attempted to provide strategic direction and coordination
at the same time as managing the implementation of two IDA projects, the Global Fund


                                               20

program, and other donor financing. With some lag, the Executive Secretariat addressed
the slow-down in project implementation in 2006 by putting in place the required
capacity. Although the government effectively contracted a number of non-governmental
actors to contribute to implementation, in particular the Financial Management Agent, its
failure to adequately replace the Facilitating Organization, or fill its functions through
some other means, had an impact on implementation of the Preventive Activities Fund.
Similarly, a reluctance to contract larger NGOs for implementation of sub-projects,
particularly relating service-delivery, may have slowed implementation and caused
inefficiencies. Finally, the relatively limited decentralization of decision-making power
was not consistent with the structure of regional and local HIV/AIDS committee that was
put in place. Overall, however, examined over the entire timeframe of the project,
implementation is assessed as moderately satisfactory in that the planned mechanisms
were developed, such as the Preventive Activities Fund, that effectively implemented the
project as intended.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory16

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons drawn from the experience of the Madagascar project generally mirror those of
the MAP as a whole, described in the Bank's 2007 strategy document. The following can
be mentioned in particular.

·   Collecting and analyzing good data on the characteristics of the epidemic and on the
    behaviors of the general population and specific groups is well-worth the cost. The
    various studies and surveys partly or fully-financed by the project had a great impact
    on strategy discussions later in implementation and in particular on the design of the
    repeater project. In particular, investment in second-generation surveillance surveys
    of high-risk groups, starting in 2003, provided badly needed data to reduce
    uncertainty and shape the response.

·   Achieving a multisectoral response is very challenging and requires attention to the
    interests, capacities and incentives of the relevant stakeholders. A focused approach,
    as adopted by the repeater project, and allowing greater control of resources by sector
    ministries and other actors, is called for. Similarly, encouraging coordination at the
    local level, particularly with health and education services, requires consideration of
    interests and incentives.

·   Generally, an effective balance between a decentralized bottom-up approach and a
    more centralized top-down strategy is difficult to achieve. The former is necessary to
    ensure community participation, relevance and ownership of interventions, while the
    latter is required for technical quality and coherence with the necessary strategy to
    address the particular epidemiological situation.



16According to the guidelines, given that one aspect of Borrower performance has been rated Moderately
Satisfactory, the overall rating is Moderately Satisfactory.


                                                      21

·   In a situation of limited capacity, a tendency to add project-specific implementation
    agents should be questioned. The implementation structure of the project, although
    overall effective was quite complex, with a variety of actors involved in sub-project
    formulation, review and financing. More thought should be given to how to more
    effectively strengthen existing structures (governmental and non-governmental).

·   The importance of the enabling environment, particularly political, still needs to be
    emphasized. In a low-prevalence situation, where for most people the presence of the
    virus was invisible, Presidential leadership made all the difference to raising
    awareness, establishing a strong HIV/AIDS coordination and implementation
    structure, and spurring implementation of this IDA project and other programs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The NAC Executive Secretariat emphasized the project's impact with regard to
population-wide awareness and reduction of stigma, emphasizing the high-level political
commitment to a population-wide response. The work of the first project in this area
paved the way for the second project's greater focus on vulnerable areas and high-risk
groups, including groups such as MSM and IDU that were not even recognized as
existing several years ago. The various studies supported by the project, particularly the
second-generation surveillance surveys done regularly since 2003-04, have been very
important in addressing the knowledge gap about high-risk groups and shaping the
strategic orientation of the program. However, the Executive Secretariat indicated that
capacity limitations among NGOs and CBOs will be an important challenge for
implementation of a more targeted strategy.

The Executive Secretariat described its objective of transitioning from "project-based" to
"program-based" implementation, emphasizing the benefits in terms of coordination and
complementarities between different donor-funded programs. An example is how the
Preventive Activities Fund sub-projects were used to incite demand for VCT services
financed by the Global Fund. However, it is not clear that the capacity issues described
previously will allow for effective implementation of this vision in the short term.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Representatives of bilateral and multilateral partners were interviewed. One of the
partners was involved in project preparation in 2001 and indicated that it was technically
well-grounded and participatory. The partners emphasized the project's results in terms
of institution-building, awareness-raising, and reducing stigma. It was suggested that
greater focus on high-risk groups early in the project would not have been possible given
awareness and stigma levels among the population and government officials.
Implementation was a learning process so that it is now with the second project that there
is greater focus on targeting and service delivery. Examples of some other countries in


                                              22

southern Africa, where policy-makers are still in denial about the epidemic, were cited.
Nevertheless, one partner questioned appropriateness of the national program's emphasis
on population-wide access to VCT given the epidemiological situation. Partners
indicated that an important project outcome was the development of national institutions
for the response to HIV/AIDS but questioned the sustainability of the structure at the
same time as emphasizing the need for a better-functioning project steering committee
and further decentralization of decision-making. It was also pointed out that the fact that
the IDA projects finance salaries of national program staff may put the Bank in a more
privileged position than other partners.

Representatives of NGOs and CBOs were also interviewed. The government's adoption
of innovations, such as STI treatment kits, piloted by NGOs was lauded. There is a
perception that government is reluctant to use NGOs, in particular international, to scale-
up service delivery, preferring to develop government-run systems. NGOs and CBOs
indicated that the Preventive Activities Fund sub-projects had a significant impact on
population-wide and community-level knowledge and awareness, promoting open
discussion and social mobilization. They were unhappy with the long and complicated
procedures and reporting requirements involved in obtaining approval and financing, as
well as with the lack of longer-term support for well-functioning sub-projects.




                                            23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

1.FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO DEVELOP SECTOR PLANS                  2.00               3.12           156 %
AND PILOTS
2. FUND FOR STI/HIV/AIDS
PREVENTION ACTIVITIES                  13.90              13.59            98 %

3. MONITORING AND
EVALUATION                               1.50               0.71           48 %

4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND STRENGTHENING OF
ORGANIZATIONAL AND                       1.80               4.44           247 %
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
BUILDING


            Total Baseline Cost        19.20               21.89

Physical Contingencies                   0.60               0.00

Price Contingencies                      1.20               0.00
             Total Project Costs       21.00               21.89
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required         21.00               21.89           104 %



(b) Financing

                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            1.00          0.57        57 %
International Development
Association (IDA)                                  20.00         21.89       109 %

JAPAN: Ministry of Finance - PHRD
Grants                                              0.45          0.45       100 %




                                           24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Table 4 lists output and process indicators used by the project, specified in the Credit
Agreement as well as subsequently in aides-memoires.

Component 1. Financial Assistance to Develop Sector Plans and Pilots (US $2.2 million)

This component was to finance development of the multisectoral strategy for combating
HIV/AIDS, supporting development of sector strategies and operational plans for eight
sectors, and pilot projects to guide further development of the strategies. The focus
sectors were education, health, information/culture/communication, infrastructure, labor,
population, rural development, and security. Although sector strategies were developed
for each of these sectors, only the sectors of labor, infrastructure/transport/tourism, and
security implemented pilot projects, for a total of 5 pilots. There is no information on the
impact of these projects with regard to HIV/AIDS-related indicators, nor is it evident that
the pilots had an effect on further strategy and program development. It is notable that
the government was not able to implement a pilot project in the education sector, which is
so important to improving knowledge and awareness. For many of the sector ministries,
HIV/AIDS was one issue among many demanding limited resources and capacity. At the
same time, they did not directly control the funds allocated to support the response in
their sector, which undermined their engagement.

Nevertheless, late in the project, this component supported a significant part of the health
sector response through training of 4,480 health workers in STI diagnosis and treatment.
The main lessons of this component are reflected in the repeater project which supports a
more focused response in a limited number of priority sectors, including a separate
component on the health sector.

This component was also used to finance related activities that are not described in the
PAD but supported the shift in strategy to focus on the local response and on population-
wide awareness-raising. The component supported development of regional and local
HIV/AIDS committees and strategies. At the local level, local HIV/AIDS committees
were established in 1,014 of the 1,549 communes, although 664 were effectively
operational and 519 elaborated HIV/AIDS strategies. The Preventive Activities Fund
financed by Component 2 was to support implementation of these strategies, which were
intentionally limited to "small feasible actions" (petites actions faisables). The
component also supported communications activities, including standard communication
materials (billboards, pamphlets, guides for organizers and journalists), television and
radio programming, over 4,000 hand-powered radios and related listening groups, 19
mobile cinemas, and a toll free advice and help line (ligne verte). The project also
supported various regional, national and international workshops and conferences.




                                              25

Table 4. Output and process indicators specified in the Credit Agreement


                                                                                             Target                     Outcome

Component 1. Financial Assistance to Develop Sector Plans and Pilots (US $2.2 million)
    Sectoral Strategies/pilots are developed and implemented                        Results of 8 pilot projects 8 sectoral strategies
                                                                                    mainstreamed                developed
                                                                                                                5 pilot projects
                                                                                                                implemented

Component 2. Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Activities (US$ 15.0 million)
    Increase by 5% annually the number of civil society organizations conducting    20% increase                Total 2,611 CBO sub-
    HIV/AIDS prevention (promotion of safe sex, distribution of condoms)                                        projects
    activities financed by the project.
    Increase the coverage of peer group IEC events financed by the project (one-on- 40% increase                Total 1.85 million people
    one or small groups) by 10% annually among high risk groups (CSWs,                                          reached, mostly general
    uniformed men, miners, high school students).                                                               population

    Increase the number of condoms distributed and sold by private/NGO sector by    12.4 million                20 million free
    20% annually.                                                                                               distribution (project)
                                                                                                                47 million social
                                                                                                                marketing (partners)

Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation (US $ 1.8 million)
    MIS is effectively utilized.                                                    Yes                         Financial MIS in place
                                                                                                                but limited capacity for
                                                                                                                cross-referencing
Component 4. Project Management and Strengthening of Institutional and Organizational Capacity (US$ 2.0 million)
    By 2005, all procurement will have followed IDA procedures                      Yes                         Yes
    Coordination by UGP is timely and effective (based on 5 point index described   Yes                         Yes
    in Operational Manual).




                                                                             26

Component 2. Fund for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Activities (US$ 15.0 million)

This component represented the major part of project financing and was to finance sub-
projects implementing preventive interventions as well as social marketing of condoms and
STI kits. A total of 3,257 sub-projects were financed. Illustrating the importance of the
community-based strategy, 2,611 sub-projects (80.2%) were implemented by CBOs in
accordance with the local response strategy. International NGOs implemented 6 sub-projects
(0.2%), national NGOs implemented 42 sub-projects (1.3%), national associations
implemented 529 sub-projects (18.2%), and private firms implemented 6 sub-projects (0.2%).
Over 80% of sub-projects were under US$ 3,000, while a further 16% were between
US$ 3,000 and 10,000. As it is formulated, an output indicator used by the project, referring
to an annual percentage increase in the number of sub-projects implemented by CBOs, does
not make sense since the baseline was zero. Nevertheless, the over 2,000 CBO-implemented
sub-projects would likely have exceeded any (arbitrary) target adopted at preparation.

Table 5. Themes included by sub-projects

                                                    Number of
                                                   sub-projects *

 Advocacy                                                      1,662
 Mass media                                                      140
 Mass awareness-raising                                        1,344
 Information, education and communication (IEC)                2,885
 Behavior change communication (BCC)                           1,023
 Communication through community groups                        2,143
 Communication through traditional healers                       113
 Communication through schools                                   135
 Inter-personal contact                                        2,753
 Production of audio-visual material                              17
 Psychosocial support to PLWHA                                     9
 Care for STI patients                                            72


* One project could include more than one theme.

By far the majority of sub-projects involved IEC activities at the population, community and
inter-personal levels (Table 5). The number of people reached by these activities has been
aggregated by the project from sub-project reports. It is apparent that a significant proportion
of the population has been reached, but the emphasis on high-risk groups apparent in the
output indicator adopted at preparation is not evident during implementation. Most activities
targeted the general population or large proportions of it (women, youth). Nevertheless, a
certain number of people considered more vulnerable were targeted, particularly later in
implementation. For example, the project reports that 1,312 sex workers were reached by
inter-personal IEC activities in 2006.

An element of the government's local response strategy was to improve knowledge and
awareness among the rural population, and this is reflected in the fact that 88% of sub-
projects were implemented in rural communes. The government strategy also emphasized
wide coverage, so that all of the 23 regions received some support through sub-projects,
although the proportion of total Fund financing varied between regions from 0.8% to 16.4%
(Table 6). The region of Analamanga, containing the capital Antananarivo, received the




                                                 27

largest proportion of financing, partly because it is the base for some of the larger mass
communications and NGO-implemented sub-projects.

Table 6. Preventive Activities Fund financing by region


                           % of total Fund
                               financing


 multiple regions                       8.40
 Anosy                                  0.84
 Androy                                 2.01
 Atsimo-Andrefana                        6.3
 Menabe                                 2.72
 Ihorombe                               1.02
 Atsimo-Atsinanana                      1.58
 Vatovavy-Fitovinany                    3.67
 Haute Matsiatra                        4.20
 Amoron'i nia                           1.87
 Analanjirofo                           5.83
 Atsinanana                             8.72
 Alaotra-Mangoro                        4.54
 Melaky                                 0.89
 Betsiboka                              1.52
 Boeny                                  5.66
 Sofia                                  3.66
 Bongolava                              1.44
 Vakinakaratra                          3.85
 Analamanga                            16.41
 Itasy                                  2.68
 Sava                                   4.11
 Diana                                  8.08

 Total                                 100.0



The project mapped communes by level of vulnerability based on a number of indicators.
The 10% of communes that were classified as highly vulnerable received 23% of sub-projects,
indicating a certain level of targeting. The 28% of communes classified as moderately
vulnerable accounted for a similar proportion of the number of sub-projects ­ 31%.

Table 7. Knowledge of HIV/AIDS among women aged 15-49

                                                                      1997  2000     2003-04

                                                              n = 7,060    7,097      7,949
 Have heard of HIV/AIDS                                               68.9    65.4       79.0
 Know that condoms can help prevent HIV/AIDS                          18.8    36.0       50.8
 Know that someone appearing healthy can transmit the HIV virus       34.4       ..      48.0


Sources are 1997 and 2003-04 DHS and 2000 MICS.

Impact in terms of improved awareness and knowledge can be seen in the key indicators
discussed in the main text as well as additional data shown in Table 7 and Table 8. For
example, population-representative surveys found that the proportion of women who knew


                                                    28

that condoms can prevent HIV infection rose from 36.0% in 2000 to 50.8% in 2003-04.
However, second-generation surveillance behavioral surveys of young people 2004 and 2006
found high levels of knowledge with slower or no improvement over the two year period,
suggesting that it may be more difficult to reach greater numbers once proportions with the
relevant knowledge attain 70-80%.

Table 8. HIV/AIDS knowledge and attitudes among men and women aged 15-24 years

                                                                 men                      women
                                                           2004        2006         2004         2006

                                                  n =       2,584        3,917        2,802        4,233
 Have heard of HIV/AIDS                                       94.6        95.7         95.5          94.3
 Know that condoms can help prevent HIV/AIDS                  85.4        88.0         82.4          82.8
 Know that someone appearing healthy can transmit             67.1        71.2         68.0          64.8
 the HIV virus
 Have a positive attitude towards persons infected             8.2        13.7           8.4         13.4
 with HIV


Sources are 2004 and 2006 second-generation surveillance behavioral surveys among youth.

Accompanying the increased emphasis on community-based activities midway through the
project was the intention to create demand for VCT services, the provision of which were
being financed by the Global Fund and other sources. No relevant indicator was adopted by
the project, but available data on utilization of VCT provides an indication of the impact of
the project in terms of inciting demand. The number of VCT services went from 15 in 2003
to 503 in 2007, while the number of people tested rose from around 10,000 in 2004 to over
225,000 in 2007. The second-generation surveillance surveys of youth found that in 2004
3.3% of men aged 15-24 had been tested for HIV, rising to 7.4% in 2006. Among women in
2004, 4.3% had been tested (n = 2,802), compared to 7.9% in 2006.

Because almost all CBO projects were under US$ 3,000, the breakdowns by number of sub-
projects (such as in Table 5) do not reflect the importance in financial terms of the different
themes nor the different types of implementing organizations. The CBO sub-projects were
oriented towards IEC while the NGO projects often involved service delivery. The main
service-delivery activities supported by this component were the purchase and distribution of
condoms and STI treatment kits. Both interventions were will coordinated with other partners
and indeed represented a contribution to scaling up of activities developed in particular by
USAID and PSI. Although the PAD stated that the project would support social marketing of
condoms, in fact this was done by the other partners, while condoms financed by the project
were distributed free through health services. Of the total of about 80 million condoms
distributed during the implementation period, the project financed 20 million. Similarly, the
project supported distribution at highly-subsidized prices of STI treatment kits through public
sector health facilities, while the other partners social marketed identical kits through private
sector drug sellers and health service providers. The project financed the distribution of
907,500 CURA 7 kits and 422,500 GENICURE kits.17 The project also financed 200,000
diagnostic kits for screening of pregnant women in order to prevent congenital syphilis.



17Under the syndromic approach to management of STIs, infections are diagnosed and treated according to the
symptoms and clinical signs. The CURA 7 kits are intended to treat infections with genital discharge symptoms
and the GENICURE kits are used to treat ulcerative infections.


                                                     29

Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation (US $ 1.8 million)

This component was to establish a management information system (MIS) for monitoring of
the project and to finance surveys and studies to measure the broader impact of the national
program. After some difficulty, an MIS was put in place, concentrating on financial data.
Basic output data were compiled from sub-project reports but links to the financial data could
not be effectively made by the MIS as intended. The project made a significant contribution
to surveillance and M&E of the national program, contributing to the 2003-04 DHS and
financing a series of second-generation surveillance sero-prevalence and behavioral studies
between 2003 and 2007. Operational research on the pilot programs financed under
Component 1 was not done as intended in the PAD. The project supported the development
of an M&E strategy for the national program.

Component 4. Project Management and Strengthening of Institutional and Organizational
Capacity (US$ 2.0 million)

This component was to support institutional development of the national program and project
implementation structures. The project financed the national and regional NAC structures
established by the government in 2002, as well as supported the creation of local committees.
The process indicators for this component relate to implementation of procurement
procedures and effective coordination by project management. The project reports that both
were attained.




                                              30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


A number of studies of specific programs have provided cost-effectiveness estimates for the
interventions supported by the project, as shown in Table 9. In these situations, estimated
cost per Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) is US$ 300 and usually under US$ 100. This
can be compared to estimated costs per DALY of treatment of childhood illnesses of US$ 9 to
219, and US$ 82 to 409 for maternal and neonatal care.18

Table 9. Estimated cost-effectiveness of specific programs (US$)19


                                                   Per HIV infection
                                                        averted             Per DALY saved



 VCT (Kenya and Tanzania)                                      270-376                  14-19
 VCT (Chad)                                                  891-5,213                 45-261
 Peer-based programs (Cameroon)                                  67-137                    3-7
 Condom distribution and IEC (South Africa)                  378-4,094                 19-205
 Condom social marketing (Chad)                                     77                       4
 STI treatment (Kenya)                                           11-16                       1
 STI treatment (Tanzania)                                           326                    16
 STI treatment (South Africa)                                     2,093                   105
 STI treatment (Chad)                                             1,675                    84



Simulations of different prevalence situations may lead to a different conclusion. Table 10
presents results of models of the cost-effectiveness of different interventions in different
prevalence situations, assuming various levels of effectiveness in terms of proportion of
infections averted. In a lower prevalence situation, the models indicate that prevention among
sex workers (SW) and men who have sex with men (MSM) are the most cost-effective, while
blood safety, condom distribution, prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT), and
workplace programs have a medium level of cost effectiveness. The models suggest that
community mobilization, mass media, STI treatment, and education interventions are least
cost-effective in a low prevalence situation. These are among the most important activities
supported by the project, even though the project also supported condom distribution and
some interventions targeting sex workers.

Nevertheless, such models cannot account for the particular circumstances of each country.
For example, it is clear that in Madagascar, despite its low HIV prevalence, the high STI rates
may make condom distribution and STI treatment more cost effective than otherwise.




18Jamison, D. et al. (eds.) (2006) Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries (2nd Edition), World Bank.
19World Bank (2008) The World Bank's Commitment to HIV/AIDS in Africa: Our Agenda for Action, 2007-
2011, March, citing Bertozzi et al. (2006).


                                                      31

Table 10. Classification of interventions by modeled cost-effectiveness and impact20

                              East and Southern Africa (higher prevalence)
                                              Impact (% of Infections Averted)
 Cost per infection
      averted                   Low                       Medium                       High
                               (0-10%)                    (10-20%)                   (> 20%)

Low                   SW                         PMTCT                       Blood safety
(< US$ 1,000)         MSM
Medium                Community mobilization     Condom distribution
(US$ 1,000-           VCT
3,000)                Education


High                  Mass media
(> US$ 3,000)         STI treatment



                               Central and West Africa (lower prevalence)
                                              Impact (% of Infections Averted)
 Cost per infection
      averted                   Low                       Medium                       High
                               (0-10%)                    (10-20%)                   (> 20%)

Low                   MSM                        SW
(< US$ 1,000)
Medium                Blood safety               PMTCT
(US$ 1,000-           Condom distribution        Workplace programs
3,000)
High                  Community mobilization
(> US$ 3,000)         Mass media
                      STI treatment
                      Education




20World Bank (2008) The World Bank's Commitment to HIV/AIDS in Africa: Our Agenda for Action, 2007-
2011, March, citing Bollinger and Stover (2007). Two scenarios are presented: East and Southern Africa and
Central and West Africa. Madagascar, with its low prevalence, is considered more analogous to Central and
West Africa despite its geographical location.


                                                     32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

             Names                               Title           Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Henri Aka                       Procurement Spec.
Saholy Andriambolomanana        Program Assistant
Anne Bossuyt                    Consultant
Susanne Holste                  Sr Transport Spec.
Katherine Kuper                 Sr Urban Spec.
Jean-Pierre Manshande           Sr. Health Spec.
Gervais Rakotoarimanana         Sr Financial Management Spec.
Claudia Rokx                    Lead Health Specialist                      TTL
Sandra Rosenhouse               Sr Population & Health Spec.
Maryanne Sharp                  Sr Operations Spec.
Raj Soopramanien                Lawyer
Supervision/ICR
Henri Aka                       Procurement Spec.
Norosoa Andrianaivo            Language Program Assistant
Slaheddine Ben-Halima           Procurement Spec.
Anne Bossuyt                    Consultant                       AFTH3
Therese Fergo                   Projects Officer                 CHEDR
Anne-Claire Haye                E T Consultant                   AFTH3
Cecelia Kennedy                 Disbursement Spec.
Jean-Pierre Manshande           Sr Health Spec.                  AFTH3
Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo        Sr Public Health Spec.           AFTH3
Patrick M. Mullen               Health Spec.                     AFTH3
Stefano Paternostro             Lead Economist                   AFTH3
Jean-Paul Peresson              Consultant
Nadine T. Poupart              Senior Economist                  MNSHD      TTL
Andrianina Noro Rafamatanantsoa Assistant
Michele Rajaobelina             Program Assistant
Gervais Rakotoarimanana         Sr Financial Management Spec.    AFTFM
Nathalie Ramanivosoa            Assistant
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson      Sr Procurement Spec.             AFTPC
Liliane Randrianarivelo         Consultant
Herinjara Maria Ranohatra       Assitant
Ando Tiana Raobelison           E T Consultant                   AFTH3
Claudia Rokx                    Lead Health Specialist                      TTL
Maryanne Sharp                  Sr Operations Spec.              AFTH3      TTL




                                                  33

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                  22                         101.78
  FY02                                  21                          78.14
  FY03                                                               0.00
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                               0.00
                         Total:         43                         179.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                               0.00
  FY02                                   6                          25.17
  FY03                                  19                          99.75
  FY04                                  39                         150.06
  FY05                                  43                         170.74
  FY06                                  20                          82.38
  FY07                                  11                          47.97
  FY08                                  15                          32.77
                         Total:       153                          608.84




                                     34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                     35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                     36

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR

                         RAPPORT DE CLOTURE DU PROJET PMPS 1


1. CONTEXTE

        Madagascar se distingue, parmi les pays du continent Africain, par une prévalence du SIDA
encore très faible. Mais à l'envers, c'est aussi un pays où les infections sexuellement transmissibles
restent problématiques et alarmante, notamment la syphilis, avec le risque de provoquer une explosion
d'une épidémie du SIDA. La prévalence du SIDA, jusqu'ici inférieure à 1%, a augmenté petit à petit
lors de cette dernière décennie et constitue une menace non seulement de santé publique mais
également économique et sociale.

        En 2001, la création d'un Projet Multisectoriel de Prévention des IST/VIH/SIDA (PMPS) est
de mise pour soutenir les efforts du Gouvernement Malgaches à travers le financement du PSN pour
endiguer    la  propagation     des    IST/VIH/SIDA.     Il  s'agit,  principalement, d'apporter   une
réponse multisectorielle à base large avec la participation active des organisations communautaires,
des ONG et de la société civile à tous les niveaux,avec l'appui des agences d'exécution dans le
renforcement de capacités.

        Le projet a ainsi appuyé l'action nationale à l'encontre du VIH/SIDA et des Infections
Sexuellement Transmissibles (IST), en fournissant des fonds pour des actions immédiates dans les
zones rouges identifiées au début.

        Ce projet, de la série « Multi country AIDS Programme » de la Banque Mondiale, s'inscrit
dans le plan de développement de Madagascar (DSRP) sur la base des quatre critères suivants : (i)
l'intégration du VIH/SIDA dans la politique de développement du gouvernement qui a développé le
PSN en 2001, (ii) l'existence d'une institution de coordination du VIH/SIDA pour la coordination des
efforts multisectoriels, (iii) l'utilisation des dispositifs existant pour répondre aux problèmes du
VIH/SIDA et (iv) l'accord du gouvernement pour financer des agences d'exécution comme la société
civile.


2. CADRE HISTORIQUE ET DEROULEMENT DU PROJET

        Ce premier Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du Sida (PMPS 1) vise à appuyer le
Gouvernement de Madagascar dans sa réponse multisectorielle à l'épidémie du VIH afin de contenir la
propagation de l'infection dans la population malgache. Selon l'accord de crédit signé le 14 décembre
2001, le projet d'une durée de cinq ans (2001-2006), est financé à hauteur de 21.000.000 USD dont
20.000.000 USD par l'International Development Association (IDA) et 1.000.000 USD par le
Gouvernement Malagasy. La première date de mise en vigueur du projet était au mois de novembre
2002. Le retard étant dû aux conditions préalables de mise en vigueur. La date de clôture du projet
initialement prévu pour le 31 décembre 2006 a été reportée au 31 décembre 2007.

             D'une manière globale, la première année du projet (2002) a été surtout marquée par la
mise en place des mécanismes institutionnels d'octroi de financement. Les années suivantes se
distinguent par une consolidation des acquis institutionnels et l'accélération des interventions et des
appuis aux structures de mise en oeuvre.

3. PRESENTATION DU PROJET PMPS 1

        31. OBJECTIF DU PROJET PMPS 1




                                                    37

         Le projet PMPS 1 s'inscrit dans le cadre défini par le DSRP et le PSN 2001-2006 dont les
principaux objectifs sont de (i) mitiger l'impact social et économique des IST/VIH/SIDA à
Madagascar, réduire la prévalence des IST/VIH/SIDA et (iii) d'assurer la prise en charge des
personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA.

         Avec la coordination du groupe thématique de l'ONUSIDA, le projet PMPS 1 a été élaboré en
coopération avec les autres bailleurs pour montrer un esprit de rassemblement, de participation et de
partenariat. En effet, ce groupe a préparé un Programme Inter Agence pour appuyer le PSN du
Gouvernement dans lequel tous les bailleurs de fonds spécifient la forme de leur participation. Le
projet s'est intégré dans les programmes déjà existant et a développé une synergie avec les
interventions en cours.

         32. LES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

Le projet comporte quatre (4) composantes :

     1) Appui aux stratégies sectorielles et stratégies locales
     2) Fonds d'Appui à la prévention des IST, du VIH et du Sida
     3) Système de suivi - évaluation
     4) Gestion du projet et renforcement des capacités.

     La Composante 1 appui à l'élaboration des stratégies sectorielles et à la mise en oeuvre de projets
pilotes et des stratégies locales. Son rôle est d'apporter un appui financier au gouvernement pour
l'élaboration de stratégies sectorielles de prévention des IST/VIH/SIDA afin de mettre en oeuvre une
véritable réponse multisectorielle de prévention et d'ajuster le plan stratégique nationale. Cette
composante a appuyé aussi le volet communication de la réponse nationale.

     La composante 2 concerne l'appui financier pour la prévention et la prise en charge non médical
des IST et du VIH/SIDA. Il s'agit de mettre à disposition des institutions nationales, régionales ou
locales des fonds pour aider dans l'exécution d'activités liées à la prévention contre les
IST/VIH/SIDA, afin de (i) contribuer à la réalisation concrète des objectifs définis par la stratégie
nationale de prévention des IST/VIH/SIDA, (ii) contribuer à l'identification des besoins spécifiques
IST/VIH/SIDA, (iii) contribuer à l'émergence de structures locales et/ou communautaires capables
d'opérer efficacement dans ce domaine, (iv) contribuer à développer et/ou améliorer les capacités
d'intervention des institutions impliquées dans la prévention contre les IST/VIH/SIDA

     La composante 3 fait partie du « cycle du projet » proprement dit car c'est le « suivi
évaluation ». Cette composante (i) effectue le suivi de progrès des activités financées par le projet, (ii)
évalue l'impact des activités du projet et (iii) apporte un appui à la réalisation d'études dans le cadre
de la composante1

     La composante 4 consiste à l'appui au (i) Financement du fonctionnement du projet à travers le
paiement du personnel du projet, d'équipement, des coûts d'opérations, d'assistance technique
ponctuelle, (2) à l'appui aux activités de renforcement des organismes nationales chargées de la lutte
contre les IST/VIH/SIDA, et des structures chargées de l'exécution du projet.


33. LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET PAR COMPOSANTE

Le tableau ci-après résume les objectifs du projet par composante

Composantes                             Objectif de la composante             Indicateurs du projet
1-   Appui    à   l'élaboration    des  Apporter un appui financier au        Au terme de l'année 1 : tous les
stratégies sectorielles et à la mise en gouvernement pour l'élaboration de    secteurs ont élaborés des études
oeuvre de projets pilotes et des        stratégies sectorielles de prévention sectorielles



                                                        38

stratégies locales                   des IST/VIH/SIDA afin de mettre         Au terme de l'année 2 : tous les 8
                                     en oeuvre une véritable réponse         secteurs ont pilotés au moins un
                                     multisectorielle de prévention et       sous ­projet
                                     ajuster le plan stratégique nationale   Au terme du projet : chaque
                                                                             secteur aura généralisé au moins 1
                                                                             de ses projets pilotes
2-   Appui     financier    pour  la Mettre à disposition des institutions   Augmentation de 5% par an du
prévention et la prise en charge non nationales, régionales ou locales       nombre      d'organisations    de   la
médical des IST et du VIH/SIDA       des    fonds     pour    aider   dans   société civile menant des activités
                                     l'exécution d'activités liées à la      de prévention du VIH/SIDA
                                     prévention          contre         les  Augmentation de 10% par an de la
                                     IST/VIH/SIDA,        afin    de    (i)  couverture par des évènements
                                     contribuer à la réalisation concrète    d'IEC pairs parmi les groupes à
                                     des objectifs        définis par la     haut risques (TS, mineurs, lycéens,
                                     stratégie nationale de prévention       militaires)
                                     des IST/VIH/SIDA, (ii) contribuer       Augmentation de 20% par an du
                                     à   l'identification    des   besoins   nombre de condoms distribués par
                                     spécifiques IST/VIH/SIDA, (iii)         le secteur privé/ONG)
                                     contribuer     à   l'émergence     de   Augmentation de 200 par an du
                                     structures        locales       et/ou   nombre de médecins privés formés
                                     communautaires capables d'opérer        à l'utilisation de kits IST
                                     efficacement dans ce domaine, (iv)      Le nombre de sous projet mis en
                                     contribuer     à  développer    et/ou   oeuvre atteignant leurs objectifs
                                     améliorer         les       capacités   déclarés augmente de 10% par an
                                     d'intervention     des    institutions
                                     impliquées     dans   la   prévention
                                     contre les IST/VIH/SIDA
3- Suivi évaluation                  Objectifs de la composante sont (i)     Le SIG est pleinement fonctionnel
                                     effectuer le suivi de progrès des       au terme de l'année 1
                                     activités financées par le projet, (ii) Les données sur les groupes cibles
                                     évaluer l'impact des activités du       couvertes     sont    utilisées   pour
                                     projet et (iii) apporter un appui à la  définir les priorités du financement
                                     réalisation d'études dans le cadre      pour les années à venir
                                     de la composante1
4- Gestion de projet et renforcement (i) Financer le fonctionnement du       Le processus de passation de
de    capacité   institutionnelle et projet à travers le paiement du         marché de la banque a été appliqué
organisationnelle                    personnel du projet, d'équipement,      pour tous les contrats en 2005
                                     des      coûts           d'opérations,  L'UGP a mené une coordination
                                     d'assistance technique ponctuelle,      efficace     entre   les    principaux
                                     (2) apporter un appui aux activités     partenaires    (selon    les   indices
                                     de renforcement des organismes          inclus    dans     le    Manuel     de
                                     nationales chargées de la lutte         procédure)
                                     contre les IST/VIH/SIDA, et des
                                     structures chargées de l'exécution
                                     du projet.

34. FINANCEMENT DU PROJET PMPS 1


         L'Accord de Crédit signé le 14 décembre 2001 entre « L'Association Internationale de
Développement (l'Association) » a accepté de mettre à la disposition de « L'Emprunteur » (le
Gouvernement de la République de Madagascar) aux conditions stipulées ou visées dans l'Accord, un
crédit d'un montant égal à la contre valeur de QUINZE MILLIONS SEPT CENT MILLE DROITS
DE TIRAGES SPECIAUX (DTS 15 700 000) (désigné par « Crédit » et « Financement ») pour
contribuer au financement du Projet Multisectoriel pour la prévention du VIH/SIDA.




                                                      39

        Ce financement est réparti initialement comme suit :

     N°            Catégorie de Dépenses       Allocation Initiale
  Catégorie                                         en DTS                Pourcentage d'éligibilité


      1        Travaux, Biens, Equipements et                       100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
               Fournitures                           2 000 000,00   des dépenses en monnaies locales


      2        Consultants et Audits                 3 300 000,00   100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
                                                                    des dépenses en monnaies locales


      3        Ateliers et Formations                  400 000,00   100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
                                                                    des dépenses en monnaies locales

      4        Gestion de Projet                       230 000,00 85% des dépenses effectuées

      5        Dons                                  7 700 000,00   100% des montants des Dons
                                                                    décaissés


      6        Remboursement de l'Avance
               pour la Préparation du Projet           470 000,00


      7        Non Alloué                            1 600 000,00
                   TOTAL                         15 700 000,00


        La contribution Toutes Taxes Comprises de l'Etat Malagasy se totalise à 1 056 090 000,00
Ariary, soit à peu près l'équivalent de DTS 363 572.


4. ANALYSE FINANCIERE

        Cette partie du Rapport de Clôture de Projet reflète les tableaux fiduciaires standard du Projet,
ainsi qu'une analyse financière simple du Projet. L'analyse financière comprend deux (02) sections
distinctes.

    -   Les tableaux fiduciaires
    -   L'existence ou non des arriérés à la fin du Projet avec les explications y afférentes

        41. Les tableaux fiduciaires

        Le montant initial du crédit alloué pour contribuer au financement du Projet Multisectoriel
pour la prévention du VIH/SIDA se chiffre comme suit :

        Tableau fiduciaire

     N°                                        Allocation Initiale
  Catégorie        Catégorie de Dépenses            en DTS                Pourcentage d'éligibilité


      1        Travaux, Biens, Equipements et                       100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
               Fournitures                           2 000 000,00   des dépenses en monnaies locales


      2        Consultants et Audits                 3 300 000,00   100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
                                                                    des dépenses en monnaies locales




                                                   40

      3        Ateliers et Formations                       400 000,00   100% des dépenses en devises et 80%
                                                                         des dépenses en monnaies locales

      4        Gestion de Projet                            230 000,00 85% des dépenses effectuées

      5        Dons                                       7 700 000,00   100% des montants des Dons
                                                                         décaissés


      6        Remboursement de l'Avance
               pour la Préparation du Projet                470 000,00


      7        Non Alloué                                 1 600 000,00
                   TOTAL                                 15 700 000,00


        La contribution Toutes Taxes Comprises de l'Etat Malagasy se totalise à 1 056 090 000,00
Ariary, soit à peu près l'équivalent de DTS 363 572.

        Le tableau des réalisations financières par catégorie du Projet PMPS I s'analyse comme suit à
la date du 07 janvier 2008 (données en DTS) :

Crédit 3589-MAG


    N°                                         Allocation        Répartition      Décaissement
 Catégorie    Catégorie de Dépenses             Initiale       finale du Crédit                    Pourcentage
                                                                    Alloué           Effectif

             Travaux, Biens,
     1       Equipements et                     2 000 000,00     3 080 000,00     2 339 645,21        75,96%
             Fournitures

     2       Consultants et Audits              3 300 000,00     2 965 000,00     2 738 952,80        92,38%
     3       Ateliers et Formations               400 000,00      890 000,00       777 113,44         87,32%
     4       Gestion de Projet                    230 000,00      655 000,00       633 368,16         96,70%
     5       Dons                               7 700 000,00     7 705 000,00     7 120 360,19        92,41%

             Remboursement de
     6       l'Avance pour la                     470 000,00      405 000,00       403 608,69         99,66%
             Préparation du Projet

     7       Non Alloué                         1 600 000,00
               TOTAL                         15 700 000,00       15 700 000,00    14 013 048,48       89,26%


Le tableau des réalisations financières par composante du Projet PMPS I s'analyse comme suit à la
date du 07 janvier 2008 (en DTS) :

Crédit 3589-MAG



      N°                                                Allocation      Allocation de    Décaissement     Pourcentage
 Composantes            COMPOSANTES                     Initiale de
                                                         Crédit         Crédit révisé      Effectif      de réalisation



                Appui à l'élaboration des
                stratégies sectorielles et à la mise
       1        en oeuvre de projets pilotes (8         1 645 000,00      2 500 000,00    1 999 391,90          79,98%
                secteurs identifiés), et des
                stratégies locales



                                                        41

                Appui financier pour la

       2        prévention et la prise en charge
                non médicale des IST et du         11 214 000,00     10 359 000,00    8 711 865,04           84,10%

                VIH/SIDA

       3        Suivi et Evaluation                 1 346 000,00      1 346 000,00      457 483,09           33,99%


       4        Gestion de projet et renforcement
                des capacités                       1 495 000,00      1 495 000,00    2 844 308,45           190,25%


                     TOTAL                        15 700 000,00    15 700 000,00    14 013 048,48         89,26%


         Le décaissement effectif de la composante 4 inclut la totalité du crédit consommé lors
de la phase préparatoire du projet.
        Dans cette perspective, la composante 1 vise à apporter un appui financier (pour un montant
de 2.2 millions USD) pour l'élaboration de stratégies sectorielles et régionales de prévention des
IST/VIH/SIDA, avec pour objectif la mise en oeuvre d'une véritable réponse multisectorielle de
prévention dans ce domaine.
Cette composante est scindée en sept sous-composantes.

        La sous-composante 1.1 vise au développement d'une méthodologie efficace pour la
préparation et l'élaboration de stratégies sectorielles. Dans un pays à faible prévalence du VIH et à
prévalence élevée des IST, comme Madagascar, la lutte contre les Infections Sexuellement
Transmissibles classiques (IST : gonococcie, chlamydiase, syphilis, etc ), est l'un des moyens les plus
efficaces de lutter contre le VIH et le Sida car elle permettrait de réduire de jusqu'à 40% l'incidence
du VIH. Cette prévalence élevée des infections sexuellement transmissibles classiques témoigne le
niveau de risque très élevé des comportements sexuels à Madagascar. La prévention des IST s'avérait
donc essentielle dans la lutte contre le VIH et le SIDA connaissant que certaines IST surtout
ulcératives, comme l'herpès génital et la syphilis, augmentent le risque de transmission du VIH de 50
à 300 fois (de l'homme à la femme surtout). Le projet a contribué à réduire les nouveaux cas
d'infection à VIH à Madagascar par une plus grande prise de conscience, en mettant l'accent sur des
pratiques sexuelles à moindre risque risque et en améliorant l'accès au traitement des IST.

        En matière de réponse, Madagascar dispose de points forts dans la lutte contre les IST, tels
que : (i) l'adoption à grande échelle de l'approche syndromique par les secteurs public et privé (ii) la
mise à disposition de kits de traitements évitant les erreurs de prescription, facile à utiliser; et (iii) la
mise en place du dépistage systématique de la syphilis chez les femmes enceintes pouvant aboutir à un
programme d'élimination de la syphilis.

        Faisant partie essentielle de la réponse du secteur santé face au VIH et au Sida, une stratégie
nationale de lutte contre les IST a été élaborée, avec l'appui du projet par le ministère de la santé, du
planning familial et de la protection sociale. En amont de la stratégie nationale, le projet a appuyé le
renforcement de la réponse du secteur santé par la formation de 4.480 prestataires de santé des
secteurs public et privé en prise en charge des IST par l'approche syndromique. Le projet continue
d'appuyer le ministère en charge de la santé dans la mise à l'échelle du renforcement de la compétence
des prestataires sur l'approche syndromique qui est devenue une pratique courante pour la prise en
charge des IST classiques. L'évaluation de son application tant dans le secteur privé que le secteur
public, à travers une enquête nationale, est prévu à être réalisée dans l'agenda 2008 du ministère de la
santé et du SE/CNLS.

        L'accès universel au dépistage de la syphilis chez les femmes enceintes, faisant suite à
l'évaluation des tests rapides pour la syphilis menée avec l'assistance technique du Center for Diseases
Control (CDC) d'Atlanta et l'amélioration de la bonne utilisation des kits IST restent un défi majeur
pour le ministère de la santé en adoptant le programme d'élimination de la syphilis. Le comité de
pilotage de la lutte contre les IST, comité multidisciplinaire sous la direction du ministère en charge de


                                                   42

la santé, en collaboration avec le SE/CNLS et regroupant les points focaux issus de la société civile,
des groupes plus exposés au risque, des secteurs clés de développement et des autres ministères clés,
est mis en place et opérationnel et reste le garant de l'application et du suivi de la mise en oeuvre des
stratégies développées, tant sur la communication que le programme proprement dit.

        La sous-composante 1.2 prévoit l'élaboration des stratégies sectorielles et des plans
opérationnels puis identifier des sous-projets pilotes qui vont mettre en oeuvre les éléments clés de
chacune des stratégies sectorielles élaborées.
        La sous-composante 1.3 concerne la réalisation des projets pilotes sectoriels.
        La sous-composante 1.4 a pour objet de développer la cohérence globale des stratégies
sectorielles dans une perspective multisectorielle et de contribuer à une formulation plus complète et
plus pertinente du Plan Stratégique National.
        La sous-composante 1.5 concerne l'opérationnalisation de la réponse locale.

        La sous-composante 1.6 le renforcement de la communication et le plaidoyer et la sous-
composante 1.7 la diffusion d'information et les partages d'expériences.

        Dans l'élaboration des stratégies sectorielles et mise en oeuvre des sous-projets pilotes, 8
stratégies sectorielles ont été élaborées et validées (santé, éducation, travail structuré,
population/jeunesse,    sécurité,  Infrastructure-Tourisme-Transport     (ITT),   développement    rural,
information/communication). Cinq sous projets sectoriels ont été financés. Les deux sous-projets
Travail ont été achevés en 2003 et 2004. L'évaluation des deux sous projets Infrastructures est en
cours pour le secteur ITT.

        Un autre élément de l'exécution de sous-projet sectoriel est relatif au secteur « sécurité » pour
les militaires. Un contrat a été signé avec le Ministère de la Défense Nationale à cet effet. La mise en
oeuvre des activités est en cours. En ce qui concerne le sous-projet des sous secteurs « Police » et
« milieu carcéral », le contrat pour l'exécution du sous-projet a été également signé avec une
association agissant comme promoteur du projet pour le compte de la Police Nationale, mais suite aux
problèmes de complétude des conditions exigées, les acteurs n'ont pas pu démarrer le projet et le
contrat a du être résilié. Le contrat concenrnant le sous-projet du secteur « Population » a été résilié
compte tenu du fait qu'il n'a pas été mené à termes.
        Pour le Secteur « Education »: une mission d'assistance technique au Ministère a été effectué
en août 2007 pour aider à élaborer une réponse du secteur « Education » et pour faire le plaidoyer
auprès des instances dirigeantes. Le plan d'action (quinquennal) et la budgétisation sont en cours
d'élaboration et en attente de validation par le Ministère et sera ensuite présenté aux différents
partenaires pour leur positionnement.

        Sur l'Appui au Secteur « Santé » : le projet a financé directement les activités du plan
développé par programme IST/VIH/SIDA du Ministère, en considérant les contributions des autres
partenaires.

        Il est à noter que la faible performance de l'approche multisectorielle ne réside pas tant dans
les capacités individuelles mais plutôt dans la capacité organisationnelle et dans des aspects de
personnalité et de comportement, chaque secteur s'est impliqué à des degrés différents, et
l'appropriation du volet VIH et SIDA n'était pas tout à fait acquise et/ou les points focaux sectoriels
au sein des ministères étaient marginalisés et peu pris en considération.

        Dans le cadre de l'opérationnalisation de la réponse locale, 1014 CLLS sur 1549 communes
sont mis en place dont 664 effectivement opérationnels et 519 PLLS élaborés.
Compte tenu des capacités limitées des communes, leur rôle est désormais limité à l'élaboration de
plans simples de mise en oeuvre, (petites actions faisables) tandis que le niveau régional serait chargé
de développer des plans plus stratégiques, en accord avec le PSN. Cette approche aurait comme
avantage de faciliter le continuum des soins allant de la prévention (multisectorielle) aux soins et au
traitement (secteur santé public et privé). Il a donc été décidé de mettre en place une task force au


                                                   43

niveau de chaque région qui sera chargé de développer un plan d'actions. Treize (13) task forces
régionaux sont actuellement mis en place et opérationnels.

         En ce qui concerne la sous-composante 1.6, le volet Communication a été conçu dès le départ
en tant qu'outil d'accompagnement dans l'exécution du programme. L'élaboration de la stratégie n'en
a toutefois été décidée qu'en 2003, après la mise en place du Secrétariat Exécutif en octobre 2002.
Cette stratégie est entrée en vigueur l'année suivante, 2004.

        Mise au service du programme, la Communication a pour mission de contribuer au maintien
du taux de prévalence en-dessous de 1%, en élevant la perception individuelle et collective des risques
dus à l'infection par le VIH, en vue d'une prise d'initiative et d'action pour prévenir la maladie.

        Les actions de communication sont développées par la combinaison de la « veille
informationnelle » qui s'appuie sur des outils/moyens et canaux de communication de masse, et de la
communication de proximité, ou interpersonnelle, qui se fait à travers les partenaires qui interviennent
sur le terrain ; le rôle de l'Unité étant axé sur la facilitation des interventions sur le terrain, en
fournissant les capacités techniques, les moyens, les outils/matériels et le financement nécessaire à
l'accomplissement et à la mise en oeuvre des plans d'action des différents acteurs (associations,
prestataires, ONGs, partenaires...).
L'intégration est le maître-concept de la mise en oeuvre de l'Action de Communication. A chaque
stratégie ses moyens et outils, mais ceux-ci sont liés par des interactions sensées produire le maximum
d'effet chez les « cibles ». Des « cibles » qui ne le sont que de nom car en réalité, ces « cibles » sont
également « actrices » dans le processus ou l'approche de communication.

        Compte tenu des paramètres socio-économico-culturels, l'audio/visuel (émission, spot,
documentaires..) a été privilégié à travers une politique de contractualisation (protocoles d'accord)
avec les grandes chaînes de radio à couverture nationale et de télévision, et les petites stations de
proximité à couverture locale (3 stations TV et une cinquantaine de stations radio), suite à une
campagne de renforcement de capacités des journalistes et animateurs d'antenne. Plus de 4 000
groupes d'écoute ont été dotés de radios-manivelle dans 04 ex-provinces (Mahajanga, Antsiranana,
Fianarantsoa et Toliara). 19 Unités Mobiles de Vidéo sont opérationnels.

        Mais les imprimés ne sont pas en reste : une soixantaine de panneaux d'affichage géants (4m
X 3m) ont été implantés à travers toute l'île. Plus de 150 000 affiches thématiques, des millions de
dépliants (Sida et IST), des milliers de guides pour journalistes, enseignants, personnels de santé,
25 000 kits d'animation pour OCB, 20 000 kits pour chefs fokontany ont été produits. Le SE/CNLS a
son bulletin trimestriel.

        D'autres outils/moyens sont également utilisés : Ligne Verte (centre d'écoute) en partenariat
avec trois opérateurs téléphoniques, Centre d'Information et de Documentation avec antennes
régionales, expressions scéniques (théâtre, marionnettes, hira gasy, animations ludiques...), différentes
formes d'expressions artistiques (chansons, photo, clips vidéo...), films, événements socioculturels...

        La majeure partie du territoire a été couverte par les interventions de Communication. Tous les
grands thèmes classiques ont été traités (ABCD, stigmatisation, partenariat multiple...). 85% de la
population ont entendu parler du VIH et du Sida, et connaissent au moins un des modes de
transmission du VIH et un des moyens de prévention. L'utilisation du préservatif est accrue. Les
bienfaits du dépistage sont de mieux en mieux compris (nombre croissant des tests). La propension à
la stigmatisation et à la discrimination des PVVIH s'affaiblit sensiblement. Des réseaux d'éducateurs
pairs sont fonctionnels dans divers secteurs (jeunes, milieux de travail, TDS...). Toute une chaîne de
personnalités-clés est à pied-d'oeuvre pour relayer les messages : chefs religieux, chefs traditionnels,
autorités administratives, chefs d'entreprise, artistes, journalistes, animateurs radio/TV...Ce qui est sûr,
c'est que la Communication a une part de contribution à ces mouvements de mutation. Tout est de
savoir à quel degré ou à quelle aune mesurer cette part.




                                                     44

         Du point de vue de l'approche, le focus est désormais mis sur la problématique du
Développement comme porte d'entrée au Sida, dans la démarche. Dans l'élaboration de plan d'action,
la tendance est à la Décentralisation pour être mieux en phase avec la Réponse Locale. Pour cela, une
vague de formation a été organisée, suivie de la mise en place de 04 Plateformes de Communication
qui regroupent les communicateurs des entités qui interviennent dans le Développement des Régions
concernées. Concernant les thématiques, une orientation vers un ciblage plus serré des groupes
vulnérables (TDS, HSH, jeunes, injecteurs de drogues...) devra être opérée, avec des thèmes
spécifiquement adaptés (utilisation des préservatifs, IST, partenariat multiple, usage de matériels
souillés, les gestes/comportements qui sauvent...).


         Pour la sous-composante 1.7, au sujet de la diffusion d'information et les partages
d'expériences, le premier forum national s'est déroulé du 27 au 29 novembre 2003, le thème étant axé
sur les jeunes et le VIH/Sida. Le deuxième forum national sur le SIDA s'est tenu du 29 novembre au
1er décembre 2004 sur le thème : Femmes, Religions et SIDA, précédé de 6 fora provinciaux.
Madagascar a, outre ce forum national, organisé et accueilli le colloque international de l'Océan
Indien sur le VIH/SIDA les 8 et 9 novembre 2004. Les participants venant des îles de la Réunion,
Maurice, Seychelles, Comores et Madagascar ont débattu sur l'aspect de leadership à tous les niveaux
; le besoin énorme de mobilisation de ressources ; la nécessité de mettre en place un système de réseau
; la nécessité de mettre en place une politique d'ARV ; la nécessité d'impliquer les leaders
traditionnels et les tradipraticiens dans la prévention. Cet évènement a vu aussi le témoignage des
PVVIH à visages découverts.


         En 2005, 22 fora ont été réalisés dans les 22 régions sur le thème « Dynamisation de
l'implication des Régions dans la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA à travers une meilleure structuration de la
Réponse Locale ». L'objectif général est d'intensifier la riposte nationale au VIH et au SIDA, à la
lumière de la situation épidémiologique des IST, du VIH et du SIDA au niveau des Régions, des
ripostes locales actuelles et des leçons tirées des expériences vécues, en centrant les efforts sur le
développement de la compétence locale afin que chaque individu assume pleinement ses
responsabilités pour combattre ce fléau. Ainsi, le forum régional a offert une opportunité de
concertation au niveau local afin d'obtenir une cohérence entre les stratégies adoptées, les dispositifs
régionaux et locaux pour une riposte efficace et durable.

52. Composante 2 : Fonds d'Appui à la prévention des IST, du VIH et du Sida

Cette composante est d'abord constituée par un volet stratégique relatif à l'achat de kits IST et de
préservatifs masculins

         En complémentarité aux activités d'intensification de la demande à travers les activités de
communication menées par les organisations de la société civile, l'offre de service a été renforcée par
la distribution de kits préemballés de traitement des IST et des préservatifs.

         Au travers des deux stratégies complémentaires de distribution promotionnelle par le biais des
organisations communautaires de base et les organisations non gouvernementales et marketing social
des préservatifs, entre les années 2001 et 2006, on dénombre environ 80.749.377 de préservatifs
distribués au niveau national depuis le démarrage du projet, dont 49% à travers le marketing social. Il
est constaté que l'utilisation du préservatif lors du dernier rapport sexuel avec un partenaire autre que
le partenaire habituel est passé de 2.3% à 24,6% chez les femmes et de 0.3% à 28% chez les
hommes avec les partenaires de type commercial et à 19,7% chez les femmes et à 18,1% chez les
hommes avec les partenaires de type non commercial.
Pour renforcer ces acquis, le projet appuie la campagne de communication sur la lutte contre les IST
classiques et en particulier contre la syphilis, un plan de communication est développé et mis en
oeuvre.




                                                    45

         Concernant les kits de traitement des IST, le projet d'un commun accord de principe avec le
CRESAN, a permis la dotation en kits de traitement IST des formations sanitaires du secteur public et
du privé. Au cours du PMPS I, la distribution des kits s'est faite, pour le secteur privé, au travers du
marketing social (PSI, bénéficiaire du FAP) depuis 2003, et au travers du Ministère de la santé via
l'acquisition de kits auprès de la Centrale d'Achat des médicaments essentiels « Salama » pour le
secteur public depuis 2005. Les kits sont actuellement inscrits dans la liste des médicaments essentiels,
et la distribution est intégrée au système de distribution de la Salama. Pour les kits de traitement IST,
un total de 907.500 CURA 7 et 422.500 GENICURE ont été acquis et mis à disposition des services
de santé sur le courant du projet. A la fin du projet, une baisse de la prévalence de la syphilis chez les
travailleurs de sexe est constaté, amenant la prévalence de 16,6% en 2005 à 12,1% en 2007 à travers
l'enquête de surveillance biologique, soit une réduction de 4 points au bout de 2 ans.

         A travers le programme d'élimination de la syphilis, le comité de pilotage de la lutte contre les
IST a décidé du développement d'un nouveau kit de traitement de la syphilis adapté pour les femmes
enceintes. Le ministère de la santé a également lancé un programme de dépistage systématique des
femmes enceintes et de leur partenaire durant les consultations prénatales. Des CSB2 sont équipés en
agitateurs à énergie solaire (projet CRESAN) qui permettent l'usage des tests RPR, de consommables
(test RPR, réactifs) et la formation à l'usage de ces tests qui sera pris en charge par le PMPS.

         Le projet à travers le second projet multisectoriel pour la prévention du sida, souhaite
continuer à appuyer le secteur santé pour une réponse efficace face au IST par l'achat des kits IST à
travers l'appui à la SALAMA dans la mise en oeuvre du programme d'action pour l'intégration de
intrants de santé.

L'autre partie de la composante concerne l'implication des organisations de la société civile dans
les action de prévention des IST et du VIH. Une des grandes sous-composantes du FAP consiste à
appuyer les ONG et les associations à but non lucratif par le biais de financement de sous projets
focalisés sur la communication pour le changement de comportement. Et depuis que la stratégie
nationale a mis l'accent la réponse locale, un dispositif a été mis en place pour faciliter l'accès des et
Organisations Communautaires de Base (OCB) à ce financement. Les entités financées sur le FAP ont
énormément contribué aux tendances positives en matière de comportements, et de mobilisation des
demandes en services cliniques de prévention et de prise en charge, notamment le dépistage du VIH et
la distribution de préservatifs. Pour toute la durée du projet, le nombre de sous projets financés s'élève
3 357, se répartissant comme suit : dont 1,48% mis en eouvre par des ONG nationales et
internationales, 18,18% par des associations nationales et 80,17% par des OCB. Toutes les régions de
Madagascar ont bénéficié de ces sous projets mais à des degrés différents, allant de 36 à 324 contrats,
et dont 88% ont concerné des communes rurales. En termes de priorité, les communes fortement
vulnérables et moyennement vulnérables ont été touchées respectivement à 23% et 31%. Le
pourcentage des sous projets ayant été menés à terme s'élève à 83,5%.

53. Composante 3 : Suivi et évaluation

         Conscient de l'importance cruciale des activités de suivi évaluation, le projet soutient la mise
en place d'un dispositif de suivi et évaluation permettant d'apprécier la performance, d'aider à la prise
de décision et d'améliorer la mise en oeuvre /ou la gestion du projet. Pour le respect des « Trois
principes de l'unicité», il a appuyé le développement du plan de suivi évaluation national. Le premier
plan a été élaboré en 2003, avec l'appui de l'ONUSIDA, a fait l'objet de revue en 2004 et validé en
2005.

         Le développement de ce plan de suivi et les outils qui l'accompagnent a été un atout pour la
mise en oeuvre du suivi évaluation. Par ailleurs, la mise en place du SIG, depuis 2003, permet
d'effectuer le suivi financier du projet. Les efforts ont été axés vers l'amélioration de ces outils pour
permettre au projet de contribuer pleinement au suivi de la mise en oeuvre du programme national, à
travers les informations relatives aux contributions financières du projet produites par le SIG et les
réalisations techniques rapportés par les acteurs promoteurs.


                                                     46

         Dans l'optique d'un meilleur suivi et évaluation, le projet a appuyé le renforcement des
dispositifs déjà mis en place à travers la mise en place des Bureaux de Coordination Inter Régionale,
des Unités de Coordination régionales et les Comités Locaux de Lutte contre le VIH/Sida. Ces
structures ont été mobilisées pour aider à fournir les informations nécessaires pour le suivi évaluation,
à travers la collecte et l'acheminement des données collectées au niveau de leurs zones de couverture
respectives vers l'unité centrale.

54. Composante 4 : Gestion de projet et renforcement de capacité institutionnelle et
organisationnelle

         Si au début, la rubrique GRC 4.2 n'a pas été prévue dans PMPS 1, elle a été ultérieurement (à
partir de 2005) intégrée dans la composante 4 du PMPS 1.
En effet, avant la mise en vigueur de la composante 2 du PMPS 2, dans laquelle différentes activités à
mettre en oeuvre par le secteur santé à la lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA ont été intégrées, les activités
prioritaires ont été d'abord financées dans le projet PMPS 1 particulièrement (i) la mise à jour d'une
stratégie et d'un plan d'action budgétisé pour le renforcement de la PEC des IST, (ii) l'appui à
l'approche syndromique et évaluation de son application dans le secteur privé et public, (iii)
amélioration de la bonne utilisation des kits IST, (iv) l'approvisionnement en test RPR et formation à
leur utilisation, (v) le monitoring de la sensibilité des germes visés aux antibiotiques utilisés et (vi)
l'achat des kits accouchement pour femmes enceintes.

         Le financement de cette rubrique a permis au secteur santé de mettre en oeuvre des activités
clés pour répondre aux besoins de ce secteur dans la lutte contre les IST et le VIH/SIDA. Aussi, il a
permis la construction d'incinérateurs de type Montfort dans 10 centres de santé, la dotation de 200
000 tests RPR, la formation des agents de santé sur l'approche syndromique, l'acquisition de kit
accouchement pour les femmes enceintes, etc.

         Les indicateurs d'impact du programme ont progressé de manière satisfaisante en matière de
connaissance du VIH et de certains comportements. On note ainsi entre 2004 et 2006 (ESC) une
amélioration significative de la connaissance dans tous les groupes cibles (TDS, jeunes, 15-24 ans,
militaires et camionneurs)21, une augmentation de l'utilisation du condom avec le partenaire sexuel de
type commercial22 , ainsi qu'une diminution du nombre de partenaires multiples chez les jeunes filles
de 15-24 ans (26% en 2004, 21.9% en 2006). En revanche, un point plus préoccupant est
l'augmentation du multipartenariat sexuel chez les garçons de 15-24 ans, passant de 36% en 2004 à
43.5% en 2006. Concernant la prévalence des IST chez les TDS, le taux demeure très élevé en 2004
(15.6%) et en 2005 (16.6%, ESB 2005).

         La formation de plus de 2000 agents de santé sur la prise en charge des IST classiques selon
approche syndromique, co-financée par le projet CRESAN /PMPS en 2004 est l'une des grandes
réalisation du projet.

         Dans le cadre du renforcement des capacités des Organismes Nationales, le PMPS 1 contribue
dans la mise en place et l'appui au fonctionnement des structures de coordination décentralisées, par



21Le pourcentage de personnes connaissant au moins trois moyens de prévention du VIH passe entre 2004 et
2006 :
    (i)      chez les jeunes 15-25 ans de 53% à 66.7% chez les hommes, de 57% à 64.4% chez les femmes,
    (ii)     chez les TDS, passe de 50% à 60.5%
    (iii)    chez les camionneurs, passe de 53% à 59%
    (iv)     chez les militaires, passe de 48% à 52.5%




                                                     47

le biais des salaires des 5 BCIR (Directeur du Bureau de Coordination Inter Régional) jusqu'à mars
2007 fin de leur mandat et par la participation aux frais de fonctionnement des 22 CT/UCR.

          Toutefois, la planification de l'exécution des activités de cette composante mérite une
amélioration pour réaliser à temps réel les activités planifiées par le secteur santé, étant donné que
certaines activités planifiées et supposées prioritaires n'ont pu être mis en oeuvre à temps (ex : étude
des résistance aux antibiotiques, planification des activités IST, formation sur approche
syndromique,etc.). En outre, il est nécessaire d'apporter plus d'attention sur la supervision et le suivi
des activités mises en oeuvre pour assurer la qualité des résultats et proposer des recommandations
dans la mise en oeuvre éventuelle des ultérieures activités de même type.

          Certain élément comme la difficulté dans l'établissement des spécifications techniques semble
à l'origine de blocage de la réalisation de certaines activités en 2006 selon le tableau suivant :

Tableau des objectifs et activités 2006 réalisées par le projet/ Résultat et indicateur

Objectifs 2006                       Réalisations 2006/indicateurs      Observations
Confection de 32 incinérateurs       10 incinérateurs construits        Reste 22 incinérateurs (deuxième
Monfort                                                                 phase)
Supervision de la prise en charge    Non réalisée
des IST au niveau des CSB
Etude sur la résistance des          Non réalisée                       Requête en cours de préparation
microbes aux Kits IST
Achat de Kit d'accouchement pour     Non réalisée                       Spécifications techniques non
les bénéficiaires                                                       disponibles
Achat de réactifs RPR                Non réalisée                       Spécifications techniques non
                                                                        disponibles
Organisation d'une réunion de mise   Réalisée
à jour et validation du protocole de
test rapide du VIH à Madagascar
Multiplication du schéma du test     Non réalisée
biologique                                                              Schéma non disponible pour
                                                                        multiplication
Tenue d'un atelier de trois jours    réalisé
pour la redynamisation de la lutte
contre les IST
Réactualisation les outils de        réalisé
formation sur l'approche
syndromique
Formation des personnels des SSD     Non réalisé                        Requête non disponible
sur la prise en charge des IST par
l'approche syndromique

          L'un des problèmes rencontrés par le projet est le manque de ressource humaine spécialisée en
matière d'élaboration de « spécifications techniques ». Il ne s'agit pas ici d'un problème isolé car la
plupart des projets oeuvrant à Madagascar sont confrontés à cette carence pour les procédures
d'acquisition de produits fiables suivant les normes requises.

Pour l'année 2007, la situation s'est présenté comme suit :

Tableau des objectifs pour l'année 2007
Objectifs 2007                       Réalisations 2007/indicateur       Observations
Confection de 22 incinérateurs       Non réalisée                       Nouvelles spécifications
Monfort                                                                 techniques après évaluation
                                                                        remises tardivement pour permettre
                                                                        le recrutement des entreprises au
                                                                        cours de l'année 2007
Etude sur la résistance des          Non réalisée                       Activité supprimée par le LNR par



                                                      48

microbes aux Kits IST                                                    suite des besoins encore à clarifier
Achat de Kit d'accouchement pour      En cours
les bénéficiaires
Achat de réactifs RPR                 Acquisition de 200 000 tests RPR
Mutliplication du schéma du test      En cours
biologique
Formation des personnels des SSD      En cours                           Une partie sera financée sur PMPS
sur la prise en charge des IST par                                       2
l'approche syndromique

         Compte tenu des objectifs ambitieux que le Gouvernement s'est fixé dans le contexte du MAP,
trois défis majeurs sont à relever dans la lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA, et notamment : (i) le
renforcement de la gestion et la coordination du programme dans la transition d'une approche projet à
une approche programmatique, y compris les aspects fiduciaires, (ii) la mise en oeuvre efficace d'une
décentralisation de la gestion de la réponse aux IST, au VIH et au SIDA à travers des activités de
réponse locale ciblée ; et (iii) la redynamisation du partenariat avec le secteur santé.

         Après clôture du PMPS 1, le plan du secteur santé sur les IST, le VIH et le SIDA continueront
à être financé sur le PMPS 2. Pour l'année 2008, il est prévu d'apporter une assistance technique et
financière au MINSAN, à travers le Programme IST/SIDA, et de renforcer ainsi sa capacité de mise en
oeuvre. A cet effet, une convention de partenariat est en cours entre le MINSANPFPS et le SE/CNLS,
ce dernier qui va jouer le rôle de coordination et de suivi et le MINSAN qui assurera l'exécution.

6. EVALUATION INSTITUTIONNELLE

         L'expérience du projet en terme institutionnelle est une véritable mine d'information et
d'apprentissage. En effet, conformément au manuel d'exécution du projet, le dispositif de mise en
oeuvre, de suivi, de contrôle du projet est établi comme suit :

61 - Organisation institutionnelle

         Le Conseil du PMPS institué par un décret définissant ses rôles et attributions, sa
composition et son fonctionnement, constitue la structure de coordination du PMPS et est placé sous la
tutelle administrative de la Présidence de la République, il est constitué de dix sept membres
sélectionnés dans le Comité National de Lutte contre le VIH/Sida pour représenter les différentes
institutions ou organisations, du secteur public, du secteur privé et de la société civile, incluant les
bénéficiaires (représentants des personnes vivant avec le VIH, ou faisant partie d'un des groupes cibles
les plus exposés aux risques). La Présidence du Conseil est assurée par le représentant de la Présidence
et le Secrétariat du Conseil par l'Unité de Gestion du Projet. Le Conseil assure les missions suivantes :
     -    Approuver le manuel de procédures du FAP, le manuel d'exécution du projet, le manuel de
          gestion financière et comptable, et les plans opérationnels annuels budgétisés ;
     -    Approuver le recrutement de l'Agence de Gestion Financière ;
     -    Evaluer la performance de l'UGP, en concertation avec la Banque Mondiale, suivant des
          indicateurs de performance bien définis ;
     -    Examiner et approuver les demandes de financement dans le cadre du FAP, pour les sous
          projets d'un montant supérieur à 100 000 USD ;
     -    Examiner les rapports d'audit et proposer des recommandations pour le projet, approuver les
          rapports techniques et financiers annuel de l'UGP, examiner et approuver les comptes annuels
          du FAP.

         Le Conseil comprend un Comité d'audit, dont le rôle est de faciliter le travail des auditeurs
externes du projet, revoir les conclusions des auditeurs et assurer l'application de leurs
recommandations.

         Le Conseil, mis en place au début du projet a assumé plus ou moins correctement ses
responsabilités jusqu'en Août 2004. Les conditions de travail des membres du conseil, qui sont des


                                                      49

bénévoles, et le changement de fonctions de beaucoup d'entre eux ont aussi plus ou moins émoussé
leurs engagements dans leurs rôles vis-à-vis du projet. D'autant plus que la coordination nationale a
depuis réorienté l'utilisation du FAP vers la réponse locale jugée plus coût-efficace en matière de CCC,
et répondant plus aux besoins réels des communautés bénéficiaires, donc vers des sous projets
largement inférieur à 25.000 USD, donc ne nécessitant pas l'avis du Conseil du PMPS.

         L'Unité de Gestion du Projet (UGP/PMPS) également créée par décret, est sous la tutelle
administrative et technique du Secrétariat à la Planification de la Présidence de la République et sous
la tutelle financière du Ministère chargé des Finances et du Budget. L'UGP/PMPS, conduite par un
Directeur national, a pour mission principale d'assurer la bonne exécution du Projet Multisectoriel
pour la Prévention du Sida (PMPS), à travers les fonctions suivantes :
         Gestion opérationnelle des différentes des composantes selon le plan opérationnel annuel,
         selon les règles et procédures de la Banque Mondiale et du Gouvernement ;
         Passation des marchés et décaissements ;
         Gestion administrative, financière et comptable ;
         Suivi et Evaluation ;

         Si depuis la mise en vigueur de l'Accord de crédit le 12 novembre 2002, l'UGP/PMPS
fonctionnait de façon autonome sous l'autorité du Conseil du PMPS, le Gouvernement de Madagascar
a décidé de confier la gestion du projet au Secrétariat Exécutif du          CNLS en novembre 2003
conformément aux recommandations internationales sur le renforcement de l'effectivité des trois
principes d'unicité: l'UGP/PMPS a donc intégré le SE/CNLS, avec quelques changements dans son
organigramme par la nomination du Secrétaire Exécutif comme Directeur National du projet, et le
recrutement d'un Adjoint chargé de l'UGP/PMPS et d'un autre chargé des opérations et stratégies.

         L'Agence de Gestion Financière (AGF) est une entreprise de droit privé ayant les capacités
de remplir les fonctions définies dans le cadre de la composante 2 du PMPS1 sous la forme d'un
mécanisme financier, le Fonds d'Appui à la prévention des IST, du VIH et du Sida (FAP). L'AGF est
présente à deux niveaux (i) le niveau central, chargée de la gestion financière et du suivi des activités
du FAP ; (ii) le niveau Régional couvrant plusieurs régions. L'AGF a pour missions principales de :

    (i)      au niveau central :

    -    Compiler les contrats et les besoins de financement transmis par chacun des Bureaux
         Régionaux et effectuer le paiement des promoteurs et des organismes de facilitation

    -    Consolider les données comptables, financières et techniques relatives à chacun des contrats
         de financements passés avec les promoteurs du FAP ;

    -    assurer la tenue de la comptabilité du FAP au niveau national ; tenir disponibles toutes
         données et informations nécessaires à réalisation des actions de suivi et d'évaluation

    (ii)     au niveau provincial :

    -    Instruire tous les dossiers de financement au titre du FAP et approuver les demandes de
         financement au titre du FAP au dessous du montant de 100 000 USD après instruction par
         l'ORT pour les sous projets de plus de 25.000 USD, sur la base des critères définis dans le
         manuel de procédures du FAP ;

    -    Soumettre pour approbation au Conseil du PMPS les demandes de financement au titre du
         FAP au dessus du montant de 100 000 USD ;

    -    Assurer la comptabilité au niveau de chaque bureau régional et de ses antennes ; recueillir et
         mettre à disposition des auditeurs toutes informations d'ordre technique et financier requises.

Au démarrage du projet en novembre 2002, l'AGF tout d'abord faisait partie intégrante de
l'UGP/PMPS. A partir de 2003, l'AGF a été assuré par le cabinet d'audit Deloitte, ce jusqu'à la fin du
projet.




                                                    50

        L'Organisme de Facilitation est une institution privée sans but lucratif ou organisation de la
société civile ayant des compétences et une expérience dans la conception et la mise en oeuvre de
projets de protection sociale, constitue un moyen mis en place par le PMPS1 pour renforcer les
capacités des promoteurs et donc chargé d'apporter un appui à l'identification et à la préparation d'un
projet, et de former les personnes ressources des promoteurs sur les aspects techniques et
managériaux.

        Un consortium de trois (3) organisations non gouvernementales formé par PACT Madagascar,
HIV Alliance International et Jereo Salama Isika (JSI) a été contractualisé en Septembre 2003 pour
opérer en tant qu'Organisme de Faciliatation, avec des antennes dans les six (6) chefs lieux de
provinces et quelques régions.

        Pour des raisons de défaillance technique dans sa mission d'appui aux promoteurs, le contrat
de l'Organisme de Facilitation a été résilié en 2004. Et depuis, les Coordonnateurs Techniques
Régionaux du SE/CNLS assurent transitoirement l'encadrement technique des OCB et la validation
finale de leurs sous projets pour s'assurer de leur conformité par rapport aux plans locaux ; tandis que
les propositions de sous projets soumises par les associations ou ONG ont été transmises par l'AGF à
l'Organe de Revue Technique (ORT) pour avis technique. Cette disposition transitoire a été maintenue
jusqu'à la fin du projet. L'absence d'OF a été répercuté défavorablement sur l'encadrement technique
des organisations bénéficiaires du FAP, et notamment les OCB qui opèrent en fin fond de brousse, et
donc sur la qualité des interventions.

    L'organe de revue technique (ORT) représenté par l'ONUSIDA, procède à la revue technique
des sous projets qui lui sont transmis par l'AGF pour financement par le FAP selon des procédures
définies dans le manuel du FAP. L'ORT a pour mission de :

    -   Evaluer les dossiers de demande de financement en cours d'instruction (selon le montant du
        financement) et fournir un avis au Bureau de l'Agence de Gestion Financière (AGF) chargée
        de l'instruction sur l'acceptabilité à un financement de chacun des dossiers ;

    -   Recevoir et évaluer les rapports de suivi trimestriels et les rapports finaux préparés par les
        organismes de facilitation et transmettre leurs recommandations à l'Agence de Gestion
        Financière et à l'UGP/PMPS.

    L'ORT a été rendu fonctionnel à partir de mai 2003, après le recrutement de l'expert en évaluation
technique. L'ORT a pleinement rempli ses fonctions avec l'appui du Groupe Thématique ONUSIDA.

62 ­ Collaboration internationale

        Le Gouvernement de Madagascar, par le biais du Secrétariat Exécutif du CNLS est allé de
l'avant pour renforcer de la collaboration internationale dans le cadre des appuis techniques et
financiers, et des échanges internationales des meilleures pratiques dans les divers de la réponse aux
IST, au VIH et au Sida.

        Au niveau national, le Forum des Partenaires constitue une plateforme d'échanges et de
consultation, permettant le renforcement de la complémentarité des efforts des partenaires
internationaux et nationaux.

        A travers le PMPS, le pays a pu se faire connaître dans la région de l'Afrique et même au-delà,
par sa participation aux conférences et séminaires internationaux, et les consultations africaines sur les
IST, le VIH et le Sida organisées par la Banque Mondiale.

        D'ailleurs Madagascar a reçu de la Banque Mondiale (ACT Africa) le certificat de
reconnaissance pour les efforts qu'il a entrepris en matière de leadership et d'engagement politique.

63 ­ Renforcement des capacités




                                                     51

         La composante 4 du projet intègre les activités de renforcement des capacités des intervenants
dans la réponse au Sida. Le personnel du Secrétariat Exécutif et de l'UGP/PMPS, les personnes
ressources des Ministères clés et des organisations de la société civile ont pu bénéficier de formations,
soit à l'intérieur du pays soit à l'extérieur. Ces activités concernent essentiellement des formations de
courte durée (entre une à trois semaines) dans les différents domaines techniques (e.g. prévention,
prise en charge,...) et managériaux (e.g. leadership, planification, suivi évaluation, gestion financière,
passation de marchés, gestions des intrants de santé,...), ce selon les besoins spécifiques des secteurs
concernés et les priorités du pays.




                                                    52

        7. LES INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE DU PROJET

        71. Tableau des Indicateurs de résultats des promoteurs (état consolidé en juin 2007)



                                                                                                               ETAT CONSOLIDE 2006
                  Indicateurs                                              Données

                                                                                                               Objectifs        Réalisations      Niveau de progrès

IEC/CCC
1. Nombre de programmes de sensibilisation Nombre de programmes de radio conçu par l'organisation
du VIH/SIDA produits sur des supports                                                                                   43                51             119%
audio.
2. Nombre de manifestations                      Nombre de manifestations socioculturelles et sportives
socioculturelles/sportives pour la               organisées
sensibilisation sur le VIH/SIDA                                                                                         103              108             105%
(compétition, hira gasy, carnaval, théâtre,
concert, jeux sportifs etc.).
                                                 Nombre d'hommes touchés                                              403 163          480184            119%
                                                 Nombre de femmes touchées
3. Groupe cible : Nombre de personnes                                                                                 610 651          719 211           116%
touchées par les séances de sensibilisation      Nombre de TDS touchés                                                  450              386              86%
(animation, manifestation culturelle,            Nombre de jeunes 15-24 ans touchés
manifestation sportive, etc...)                                                                                       45 076           49 937            111%

                                                 Nombre total des personnes touchées par les séances de
                                                 sensibilisation de masse (manifestation culturelle, sportive,      1 059 340         1 249 718          115%
                                                 etc...)

4. Nombre de personnes sensibilisées à           Nombre de femmes sensibilisées                                       457 286          514 942           113%
travers l'éducation par les pairs ou les visites
à domicile                                       Nombre d'hommes sensibilisés                                         313 944          356 374           114%
                                                 Nombre de jeunes 15-24 ans sensibilisés
                                                                                                                      10 432           11 246            108%

                                                 Nombre de TDS sensibilisées
                                                                                                                       1 288            1 312            117%




                                                                                                53

                                                  Nombre total des personnes sensibilisées à travers
                                                  l'éducation par les pairs ou les visites à domicile                     782 950                  883 874                  113%


  PROMOTION DE PRESERVATIFS

  5. Nombre de préservatifs (a) vendus (b)
  distribués gratuitement.                                                                                             (a) 484                  (a) 529
                                                  Nombre de préservatifs distribués gratuitement/vendus                (b) 1 086 575            (b) 1 106 239      109%

           Ce tableau montre que les résultats attendus sont largement dépassés par le projet surtout en matière d'IEC.

            72. TABLEAU DES INDICATEURS DU PMPS I PAR COMPOSANTE

           COMPOSANTE 1
      Indicateurs de                                                                                            REALISATION
     résultats/impact         Base line        Objectifs                                                                                                                        Commentaires
                                                                   2002                 2003               2004               2005              2006        2007 (décembre)
                              Etudes de          chaque                          1                   2 sous projets    5 sous projets     2 sous projets    Sous projets       Les sous projets
A terme de l'année 1, tous    sectoriels      secteur aura                       (travail            développés        développés         ITT achevés       pilotes mis en     des secteurs
les secteurs ont élaborés                    généralisé au                       structuré)          (communication    (santé,            1 sous projet     oeuvre dans les    santé, éducation,
des études sectorielles.                       moins 1 de                                            et sécurité)      éducation,         population en     secteurs travail   sécurité et
                                               ses projets                                                             population,        cours de          (2), ITT (2).      population n'ont
Au terme de l'année 2,                           pilotes                                             2 sous projets    développement      réalisation                          pas abouti.
tous les 8 secteurs ont                                                                              pilotes pour      rural, ITT) :                        Sous projet
pilotés au moins 1 sous-                                                                             travail structuré                    1 sous projet     population         La non
projet.                                                                                              ont été mis en    2 sous projets     sécurité en cours résilié            implication de
                                                                                                     oeuvre            pilotes ITT sont   réalisation                          ces promoteurs
Au terme du projet, chaque                                                                                             en cours de mise Refonte totale du Sous projet          dès la
secteur aura généralisé au                                                                                             en oeuvre,         sous projet santé sécurité (Police   conception des
moins 1 de ses projets                                                                                                                    à Morondava,      et Milieu          sous projets en
pilotes                                                                                                                4 sous projets     sous projet non   carcéral) annulé   est la cause
                                                                                                                       pilotes (dont 2    approprié par     - Projet militaire
                                                                                                                       pour éducation,    rapport au        en cours de mise
                                                                                                                       1 pour sécurité et contexte actuel   en oeuvre
                                                                                                                       1 pour santé)
                                                                                                                       ont reçu la NO     2 sous projets
                                                                                                                       de la Banque       éducations
                                                                                                                       Mondiale           annulés mais un



                                                                                                   54

                                                                                                    plan d'action
                                                                                                    éducation
                                                                                                    élaboré



                                                                                                    Plan de mise en
                                                                                                    oeuvre en cours
                                                                                                    de finalisation
                                                                                                    pour 1 sous
                                                                                                    projet sécurité
                                                                                                    (APAIT) et 1
                                                                                                    projet militaire
                                                                                                    ayant reçu la NO
                                                                                                    de la Banque
                                                                                                    Mondiale en
                                                                                                    cours de
                                                                                                    validation ORT


           COMPOSANTE 2

      Indicateurs de                                                        REALISATION
      résultats/impact      Base line  Objectifs                                                                                        Commentaires
                                                   2002       2003       2004            2005             2006         2007 (décembre)
                                                                                                                                       Augmentation
Augmentation de 5% par                                    239*       623             969             1.524 dont 1.514 La signature de  annuelle (en %)
an du nombre                                                         Augmentation de Augmentation de mis en oeuvre par contrat s'est   du nombre de
d'organisations de la                                                160%            (55%)           les OCB           arrêtée en 2006 nouveaux sous
société civile menant des                                                                            Augmentation de                   projet financés
activités de prévention du                                                                           57%
VIH/SIDA (promotion de                                                                                                                 * : Sous projets
relations sexuelles sans                                                                                                               financés
risque, distribution de                                                                                                                (contrats UGP et
condoms)                                                                                                                               AGF)

                                                                                    A travers       A travers         A travers        Ne disposant pas
Augmentation de 10% par                                                             Educateurs      Educateurs        Educateurs       de base sur le



                                                                   55

an de la couverture par des                                                 pairs :         pairs            pairs            nombre total de
événements d'IEC pairs                                                      131.482 (TDS,   837.942          883.874          TDS, de
(personne à personne ou                                                     jeunes 15-24    (TDS, jeunes 15- (TDS, jeunes 15- mineurs. Les
petits groupes) parmi les                                                   ans, hommes et  24 ans, femmes   24 ans, femmes   militaires sont au
groupes à haut risques :                                                    femmes)         et hommes)       et hommes)       nombre de
  TS                                                                                                                          30.000 individus
  Mineurs                                                                                                                     et les lycéens
  Lycéens                                                                                                                     sont au total au
  Militaires                                                                                                                  nombre de
                                                                                                                              437.733.
Augmentation de 20% par                                                                                                      (*) données
an du nombre de condoms        G* : 707 081   G* : 3 594 449 G* : 3 515 273  G* : 6 020 600  G* : 3 997 548   G* : 1 803 195 encore incomplet
distribués et vendus par le    V* : 5 302 224 V* : 7 228 608 V* : 8 258 496  V* : 9 175 008  V*: 9 849 628   V* : 6 897 359* pour 2007
secteur privé/ONG
(1. PSI / 2. autre)
                                 476 818       2 036 256      6 259 991        9 419 390       4 908 007        8 340 500*
                                                                                               (SECNLS)         (SE/CNLS)
Augmentation de 200 par                                                                                                      Formation en
an du nombre de médecins                                                                                             -       2007 prise en
privés formés à                                   1447           2776              265              -                        charge par
l'utilisation de kits IST.                                                                                                   PMPS 2.
Le nombre de sous-projets                                                                                                    Nombre cumulé
mis en oeuvre atteignant                                                                                                     de sous projets
leurs objectifs déclarés                                                                                                     achevés à la fin
augmente de 10% par an                             18             451             1004           2016             2793       de chaque année
                                                                                                                             (sous projets
                                                                                                                             dont contrat
                                                                                                                             résilié non
                                                                                                                             compris)
            *G : Gratuit
            *V : Vendu




                                                            56

           COMPOSANTE 3

      Indicateurs de                                            REALISATION

     résultats/impact        Base line  Objectifs                                    2007                            Commentaires
                                                   2002   2003  2004   2005  2006  (décemb
                                                                                     re)
Le SIG est pleinement                                                                      Le volet finance est complètement opérationnel. Le paramétrage
fonctionnel au terme de                                                                    sur le suivi évaluation nécessite une amélioration pour fournir les
l'année 1.                                                Non   Oui    Oui   Oui     Oui   informations nécessaires. Ce nouveau paramétrage a une
                                                                                           répercussion sur le volet finance et il a été jugé pertinent
                                                                                           d'intégrer les améliorations pour le SIG PMPS II.
Les données sur les
groupes cibles couvertes
sont utilisées pour définir
les priorités du                                           Oui  Oui    Oui   Oui     Oui
financement pour les
années à venir.


           COMPOSANTE 4
      Indicateurs de                                                           REALISATION
     résultats/impact        Base line  Objectifs                                                                                              Commentaires
                                                      2002      2003        2004         2005               2006         2007 (décembre)
Les processus de passation
de marché de la banque ont
été appliqués pour tous les                                                               Oui                oui
contrats en 2005.

L'UGP a mené une
coordination efficace entre
les principaux partenaires
(selon les indices inclus                                        oui        oui           oui                oui                 oui

dans le Manuel des
Procédures)




                                                                        57

8. PERENNISATION DU PROJET

           La lutte contre le VIH et le SIDA est de longue haleine et ne peut se terminer en
quelques années. La volonté politique des Hauts Responsables Malgaches est un garant de la
Pérennisation institutionnelle de la lutte à Madagascar. L'importance de cette lutte pour le coté
Malgache n'est plus à démontrer car elle fait partie de la préoccupation majeure du gouvernement
à travers le Madagascar Action Plan (MAP).

           Le Secteur Santé est très rattaché éthiquement et techniquement dans la lutte contre le
VIH et le SIDA. La mission « naturelle » des agents de santé associée à l'expérience du personnel
et la structure solide du système santé constituent un atout considérable dans la lutte, même si le
projet opte pour une approche multisectorielle. La redynamisation de ce secteur semble un axe de
pérennisation totalement rentable et efficient grâce à l'existence d'une structure organisée et
opérationnelle déjà en place.

           Pour les autres secteurs, le processus d'appui à l'intégration effective de la réponse aux
IST, au VIH et au Sida dans les ministères clés de développement, à travers l'élaboration de la
Politique Générale de l'Etat (PGE) de chacun d'eux et la mobilisation de ressources propres au
Gouvernement.

           L'effet et l'impact du projet doivent se sentir au niveau de la population de base.
L'éloignement structurel du projet par rapport à la masse populaire et l'existence de plusieurs
intermédiaires ne fait qu'atténuer le résultat attendu de la lutte contre le VIH et le SIDA. Un
rapprochement et une meilleure appropriation du projet par la population est plus que nécessaire.
La décentralisation semble l'une des solutions à ce problème. Non seulement elle favorise
l' « empowerment » mais aussi la bonne prise en main du problème, le développement d'un
esprit d'équipe, une focalisation sur les vrais problèmes de terrain et à la fin une efficacité
probable garant de la pérennisation.

9. LECONS APPRISES

           L'ampleur, la durée et la portée du projet PMPS 1 font que ses ressources humaines
s'ajoutent, se rajeunissent et se renouvellent de temps à autres. Cette dynamique au sein du projet
peut être en même temps bénéfique et désavantageuse. Bénéfique car elles peuvent apporter un
nouveau souffle et vitalité aux activités du projet grâce à l'énergie nouvelle, désavantageuse car
ce changement peut perturber la mémoire institutionnelle empêchant ainsi la bonne continuité des
activités. L'optimisation et la stabilisation des ressources humaines sont très importantes dans un
projet d'une telle envergure.

           Le projet a parcouru un long chemin et a vécu plusieurs expériences tant au point de
vue politique, stratégique qu'opérationnels. Le financement des partenaires / ONG internationaux
implantés à Madagascar en tant que facilitateur n'a pas obtenu l'effet escompté, le travail avec
certains promoteurs semble assez difficile car l'efficacité est moindre etc. Ces expériences
constituent un apprentissage organisationnel permettant de réfléchir sur le choix et le type de
partenaire dans un tel projet, les structures décentralisées existantes mise en place par l'Etat, par
contre, peut constituer un amarrage du projet. La décentralisation est alors une stratégie
incontournable pour assurer une vraie mobilisation sociale.

           Au vu des acteurs du projet en général, on note particulièrement l'insuffisance en
nombre de partenaire ou organisation à but lucrative même si certaines grandes sociétés
s'adhèrent à la lutte contre le VIH et SIDA. En tant que projet multisectoriel, les opportunités de


                                                  58

travailler en commun notamment et surtout avec le secteur privé sont primordiales. Les
expériences de ces derniers vis-à-vis de la population ainsi que leur potentialité, en terme de
couverture géographique, n'est pas négligeable. Une politique de décentralisation effective doit
encourager suffisamment l'inclusion du secteur privé pour que la réponse au VIH et SIDA soit
plus forte et que les expertises soient synergiques.


10. OPINION SUR L'IDA

           Le Gouvernement Malgache a entretenu de bonnes relations avec l'IDA depuis
plusieurs années. La situation économique du pays ne lui permet pas encore de supporter toutes
les actions de développement par ses ressources propres, y compris la lutte contre ce fléau
mondial qui est le SIDA. L'octroi de fonds alloué pour la réponse au SIDA, comme le PMPS,
constitue une ressource supplémentaire très sollicitée par le Gouvernement. Les échanges
continus entre les deux entités, malgré quelque fois de divergences de point de vue, ont permis
d'ajuster les stratégies selon les besoins réels du pays. Le FAP, tout particulièrement, est une
composante très importante ayant permis de mobiliser les organisations de la société civile vers
une complémentarité avec les actions du secteur public et une démédicalisation de la réponse.

La collaboration avec les partenaires financiers, en particulier l'IDA, a permis de faire un saut
« qualitatif » dans la réponse aux IST, au VIH et au SIDA.




                                                 59

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments of partners who were interviewed are summarized in the main text.




                                       60

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank

2001-07Aides-memoire

2001-07 Project Status Reports (PSR) and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR)

2008 "De suivi de la mise en oeuvre au suiv axé sur les résultats: Une transition réussie à Madagascar,"
        Program global de lute contre le VIH/SIDA, March.

2008 "The World Bank's Commitment to HIV/AIDS in Africa: Our Agenda for Action, 2007-2011,"
        March.

2007 "Madagascar Revue de Dépenses Publiques, Réalisation du Madagascar Action Plan: Analyse pour
        les résultats (En cinq volumes), Volume II: Santé," June 28, Report No. 38687-MG.

2005 "Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 20.2 Million (USD 30
        Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Madagascar for a Second Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS
        Prevention Project," June 13, Report No. 32319-MAG.

2001 "Development Credit Agreement (Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project) between
        Republic of Madagascar and International Development Association," December 14, Credit No.
        3589-MAG.

2001 "Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project ­ Madagascar: Institutional Capacity Assessment
        Report," Draft, August.

2001 "Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 15.70 Million (US$ 20.0
        Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Madagascar for a Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention
        Project," November 26, Report No. 23065-MAG.

2001 "Madagascar Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project: Quality at Entry Assessment."

2000 "Project Appraisal Document for Proposed Credits in the Amount of SDR 45.2 Million (US$ 59.7
        Million Equivalent) and SDR 37.9 Million (US$ 50.0 Million Equivalent), Respectively, to the
        Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the Republic of Kenya in Support of the First Phase
        of the US$ 500 Million Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region," August 14,
        Report No. 20727-AFR.

1999 Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic (Revised Edition), Oxford University
        Press, New York.


Government and Project

2008 "Profil épidémiologique du VIH et du Sida à Madagascar," Draft, February.

2008 "Decentralisation of the HIV/AIDS Response in Madagascar: A Road Map," Draft, February.

2007, "Rapport de cloture du FAP I," Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du VIH/Sida, Agence de
        gestion financière, December 31.

2007 "Rapport sur les realizations techniques et fiancières 2006," Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention
        du VIH/Sida, April.

2007 "Plan national de riposte au Sida pour les populations clés les plus exposées au risqué d'infection par
        le VIH à Madagascar (2007-2012)," July.

2007 "Plan de Suivi et Evaluation de la réponse nationale face au VIH et au Sida 2007-2012," June.

2007 "Madagascar Action Plan 2007-2012."

2007 "Enquête de Surveillance Biologique," Draft.



                                                     61

2007 "Comité national de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA: Rapport annuel 2006."

2006 "Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du VIH/Sida: Conclusions preliminaries de l'évaluation du
         FAP," December.

2006 "Guide méthodologique de la cartographie du risqué de diffusion des IST/FIH/Sida à Madagascar,"
         August.

2006 "Enquête de Surveillance Comportementale à Madagascar."

2005 Madagascar: Enquête démographique et de santé 2003-2004, February, Institut national de la
         statistique and Macro International, Calverton, Maryland.

2004 "Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du VIH/Sida: Revue à mi-parcours et projet de
         reprogrammation," December.

2004 "Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du VIH/Sida: Manuel de procedures du Fonds d'appui à la
         prevention du VIH/Sida (FAP)," March.

2004 "Enquête de surveillance comportementale relative aux IST/SIDA à Madagascar," December.

2003 "Société, culture et VIH/Sida à Madagascar, Rapport de synthèse," April.

2003 "Étude combine des seroprévalences de l'infection à VIH et de la syphilis chez les femmes enceintes
         à Madagascar," May-June.

2002 "Projet Multisectoriel pour la Prévention du VIH/Sida: Manuel d'exécution du projet," January.

2001 "Plan stratégique national de lutte contre le VIH/Sida," December.

2000 "MICS 2000 Madagascar: Rapport complèt," Institut national de la statistique and UNICEF.

1998 Madagascar: Enquête démographique et de santé 1997, , Institut national de la statistique, and
         Macro International, November, Calverton, Maryland.


Other

Behets, F. et al. (2001) "Sexually transmitted infections and associated socio-demographic and behavioral
         factors in women seeking primary care suggest Madagascar's vulnerability to rapid HIV spread,"
         Tropical Medicine and International Health 6(3): 202-211.

International HIV/AIDS Alliance in Madagascar (2007) "Études sur les groupes vulnérables," February.

Jamison, D. et al. (eds.) (2006) Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries (Second Edition),
         Oxford University Press and the World Bank, New York and Washington.

UNAIDS (2007) "Practical Guidelines for Intensifying HIV Prevention: Towards Universal Access."

UNAIDS (2007) "The Response to AIDS in Madagascar," Best Practice Collection, November.

United Nations General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS (2007) "Guidelines on Construction of
         Core Indicators, 2008 Reporting," April.

USAID Madagascar (2002) "STIs/HIV/AIDS Strategy."




                                                      62

