Document of
Tne World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23838
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26060)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR21.8 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 20, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
kLXchge1,% PteL% Ef1eLCL1VV Deebe  1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kip Nationale (KN)
KN 1.00 = US$ 0.0001
US$ 1.00 = KN 9;465
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (n)  =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 square meter (sq m)  =  10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (am)  =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq am)  =  0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
HIIP            Highway Improvement Project
MDA             Intemrational DevelOPment Assnoi2tion
MCTPC           Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
NPV             Net Present Vallie
NTS             National Transport Study
R M4vMD         Poad Mantenar.ce Management Divi:ini
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SHIP            Second Highwvay Tmprvement Pro,ect
SOE             State Owned Enterprise
LJ*tLfl.        LJa vaL nt Road zrd B, d ge Cowr,Jt.ucn  Coxrp .AJLLqJany
TA              Technical Assistance
1T,±.1         IT,,A            ---ighay IiujJLUverIent r ---J-ec
TPU             Transport Planning Unit
LJI'ILJ         UrLiLVU INatiUii De~velop,-er,tL rIugIdiialhICr
Vwoe Prpsicptit Thrznpl..uA.Ain VKviin
Country Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sec'.or Di,-ec'.or:  Jild1-N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:    Francesco Addis



WROP0 01VE'TI'T AT rtiolram' 01Thtfrl'l
FOr OrL rJ  s   wE L'JI.  oi X 'Il,
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Second Highway Improvement Project
CONTENTS
PROF No
I. Project Data                                                                      1
2. PrinciDal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievemer.t of 'Object;.ve and O.uts                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sauswiiibiily                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 13
10. Additional Information                                                         23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                26
Annex 3. Econoniic Costs and Benefits                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Oututs of Comnponerts                3 1
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   32
Anniex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
Annex 8. Map IBRD 25206                                                             34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
'l ith-   T'shT  11 .B-   a
W-iLthout vv oiaE Danlk authnorization.






I Project ID: P004201                                  |Project Name: HWY IMPROVE II
Team Leader: Francesco Addis                           TL Unit: EASTR
I1CR TvDe: Core ICR                                    I ReDort Date: June 20. 2002
I .Proj>     ata
Name: HWY IMPROVE II                              L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26060
Country/Department: LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/11/1993                           Effective: 02/14/1994        02/14/1994
Appraisal:  05/17/1993                             MTR:
Approval:  04/14/1994                            Closing: 06/30/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF LAOS/MS OF CTP&C
Other Partners:
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:    Ian C. Porter                            Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                      Jeffery Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:  Francesco Addis                         Maurice Le Blanc
ICR Primary Author:  Francesco Addis; Ephrem Asebe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HlS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory. U=Unsatisfactory HL=Hiihl- Likely. L'=Likelv. UN=Unlikelyv HtN=Highlv
Unlikely, HU=-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. In 1990, the Government embarked on a transport sector development strategy
which recognized the need to develop a prioritized program of investments in the transport sector. The
Government with the support of the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
undertook a National Transport Study (NTS). The Study identified priority transport needs and defined in



detail an investment, operation and maintenance program for 1991-1995. In particular, the NTS
formulated broad transport sector policies, outlined in detail a development program for I 996-2000 and
identified in detail projects for possible financing. The NTS also recommended continued focus on road
development, particulariy the restoration of the North-Soutn axis of Route 13 as well as the rehabilitation
and construction of rural access roads to agricultural areas. The Second Highway Improvement Project
(SHim) was one in the series of projects identified by N - S and was designed to integrate and compiement
the work of donors involved in the sector.
Project objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project aimed to support
key subsector goals in the Government's development strategy. Tlese goals were to increase the efficiency
of the country's transport system through specific road improvements; strengthen institutional capabilities
to plan, manage and maintain the national highway network; and to support the development of local
contracting capacity through the commercialization of selected state enterprises.
The project objectives of promoting transport efficiency and developing the local contracting
industry were appropriate and timely:
a   Fpirt the nhieIvP. e w.ere in line vwith the nrinritipe nf the r'imntrv Tn the Cnrteyt nf T .2n PDR
in the early 1990's, the project was to contribute to the overall National Development
Stfratem  The ,nnintru wm- cegrPiinc tnwrnri a mark-Pet ernnnmv FPnwilit-Atinca the effi.ient flnw_
of trade with neighboring countries, improving the road network on a sustainable basis and
daw9elnn;na tho 1nuo1l inina ii ;ne  wtra ere  ""pmortat gnols for the GovPrnment.
* Second, the project objectives supported the Government's strategic goals of removing the
infrastructure constraints on agricultural development and to build maintenance capacity.
*   U mane, une project objecJ"M.f werwe  wiY w't Gvve.-ments 0 fltJLfAAdl st-ance mn
the contracting industry, through the commercialization of selected state enterprises.
The project objectives were in line with IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS
fucussd ou.. ka) jprLvmowur -g riu _ vt gr aul euc L .gL%r pove,LL.;; kw) .LMtULiE L:  -  r^,%OUnoricLU%
stability; (c) eliminating infrastucture bottlenecks; (d) supporting human resource development; and (e)
u-veopig xuan-zt u     -u agrn.i1-uuLv -d   iiwuiai reou-.---
'2 Is,^tb,c;e
On Februarv 29. 1996. the Development Credit AMreement (DCA) of the Project was amended to
cover approximately 95 percent of outstanding costs of the rehabilitation of about 70 km of Road 13S
h;twa_ Nanmkading and Savannakhet. This road was to be financed under the prior pro3ect; Highwav
Improvement Project (HIP). HIP had encountered initial cost increases during the rehabilitations of the
Narkdiinaavannaklhet Road as descn:hed below in Section 3-4 However; since SHP was conceived as a
continuation of HIP and shared the same key objectives with HIP, changes in the objectives of SHIP were
not tleen,d ne.ppgqrv
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
The project components as outlined in the SAR were:
A  Upgrading MaLntfenane Caparitvy aT(S$10.70nmi11inn
Implementation of maintenance program, including the execution of spot improvements and
periodic maintenance, on about 2,000 km of the Borrower's network. This component involved
the upgrading and execution of the maintenance program on the road network through:
i. the financing of the three-year program for spot improvements and periodic maintenance;
ii. a three-year program of routine maintenance, to be financed by the local budget; and
;ii  tA.- nrnuiv nn nf t+P inii a1 acdietanrP  (TAI fnr the  nroan','*nn  rnA  ae.ve.eiin  nf tlhe  rn 11
mnaintenance program.
B. Road Improvement (US$16.70 million)
TTJ-AJ - of abfot 13 .J l f tf .-'.' Sava  -tl "se Av  to,J--- b.-A-A f-A.-
rehabilitation of 36 bridges;
C. Development of Construction Industry (US$1.00 million)
I GIUL"4I asiat4ULe Lu e jJLUJVAL Ui.1. IFm.IL4UoLJ, UVVe1:JomLLVLnt VI oUf IUAR4 Loc ALM.LIUL5
capability, transport planning and policy development In particular, this component would
co-ver L - i.e I . n ar. uevepme LLt   IVA Ll f Io LUUe Lci aWiUUUU Lf ueI
State-Owned-Enterprise (SOE) that was being created from the merger of enterprises Nos.
I;3;2, ;3/3 aiUI ;3/4 1for iiie p pUJUTA PU[]PUue. ilU it WUiUuv  UU IUUIi LWo-yeau[ period
during which the capacity of the new enterprise in such areas as financial management and
costing, and project equipmet aniamagement wouid be developed. Tie enterprise wouid be
assisted by two internationally-recniited experts; and
D. Technical Assistance and Training (US$0.15 million)
Technical assistance, degree courses, and short-term training for tne Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) staff.
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentioned above, in February 1996, the Project credit allocation was amended to bridge a
financing gap covering the shortfall of funds under Highway Improvement Project The estimated short fall
of SDR 9.0 million (US$13.3 million) arose from bids higher than expected due to design modifications
and additional works approved by IDA. The shortfall of funds under HIP was anticipated and was planned
to be financed under a component of the Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP), but effectiveness of
THIP was delayed by a year.
Since the Second Highway Improvement Project was a continuation of the Highway Improvement
Project and shared its key objectives, including rehabilitation of selected sections of Highway Route 13S,
the change was not conceived as a change in objective. The amendment in the DCA was reviewed by the
Regional Vice President and approved pursuant to the requirement of OP 13.25 "Use of Project Cost
Savings", para. 2 (b), and the corresponding BP 13.25, para. 3, which governs relocations with five percent
or more of the original Credit amount
-3-



Accordingly, the Second Hiighway Improvement Project Credit was amended to transfer SDR 2.0
million from Category 1 "Civil Works, Part A(l)", and SDR 4.0 million from Category 2 "Civil Works,
Part A (2)" and SDR 3 million from category 4 "Unallocated", to a new category to finance 95% of the
civil works being carried out under contracts Nos. I and 2 signed to contract Road No. 13 between
Namkading and Savannakhet under HIP, Category 1. And, the original scope of work under Category 1
and 2 of SHIP was agreed to be reduced.
The scope of work to be financed under the Credit was further defined. Thus, Part A(1) and (2) of
Schedule 2 to the agreement were amended to finance the following:
1. pnot r,uvlline, rpeordincr emhb-nnLmpnt raising, nr^Iosion nfAr!inn-gP anid mje%rAT+s a-d
improvement of bridges at selected locations over a distance of 1,000 km through the
Borronr r'c road nd , ,-rork
2. Upgrading of about 55 km of roads consisting of Route 13S between Ban-Lak and Seno, and
Route 11 between Ban-Lak 35 and Savannakhet.
-. DO o;;+ +AS -A  ;  ;;- AA}A            A-. IA A-+- P7A^ tA-N .rlD-,+- l-WQ
J.  fl%.UWA JflflLOLJU   W V   V -U h   -If-L LU 5' VI AWUA 0%. V V fI \V  f_"J MA flUULA.  au
between Namkading and Savannakhet.
The cost estimates were also modified and a new component (4) was added as follows:
Component                        Cost       |      Rating
1. Road Rehabilitation, Road No.13 ana NO.1i   9,UU,UUU.U0U0  I
2. Road Maintenance                         %2-800.l00.000  IS
3. Institutional Strengthening              $4,400,000.00           S
4. Road Rehabilitation, Road No. 13         $13,300,000.00          S
In June 2001, an extension of the closing date was agreed in order to complete additional
uupLUvemLen tuu Irleudimm woIrk. ituse wulfks aUVwuU. fIV 0i6LcanUL Davurgs In ftUwLe, rIUaIULGjIelance
interventions, as well as gains in road use and could not be executed/completed due to extensive rainy
w-1-her A fiiurewctino ul re3       roed, mairii foii _ aeoj _iioa --       was nees
WekvltW. It~ JLUiU IVd.lUVLiUUUI VI Ulu UACUlL pIULXcub, unnunlILy UUIU uir, LudLuguy UUuI-iuULavu, Wub 1usbuery
to allow for the completion of these activities. The following table outlines the original and successive
rea'ilocatioiis.
Category                                 Allocations (SDR)
Original       Revised         Final
1. Civil works under Part A (1) of the Project  4,030,000      2,000,000       3,110,000
2. Civil works unider part A (2) of the Project  11,120,000    6,600,000       5,260,000
3. Consultants' services, including auditing    3,290,000      3,000,000       3,560,000
and training
4. Civil works under Part A (4) of the Project         0       9,000,000       9,870,000
5. Unallocated                                  3,360,000       1,200,000             0
Total                                          2i,800,000     21,800,000      21,800,000
-4 -



3.S Quality at Entry:
The project was not reviewed by the Bank Quality Assurance Group. The ICR rates the quality at
entry of the project as satisfactory for the following reasons:
* First, the design of the project was consistent with both the Government priority as reflected
in its sector development strategy a-nd tue Bank's Counuty Assistance Straiegy oI October 12,
1992 for the country. In particular, both the Government and IDA endorsed the transport
sector strategy wInch focused on coatinued development of the backbone of the national
network, rehabilitating feeder roads in major agricultural areas and development of the road
maintenance capability for the country.
*   Second, recognizing the underdevelopment of the domestic market, the design of the project
took an incremental approach in the commercialization of state enterprises. Also, recognizing
the weak implementation capacity of the borrower. the design of the proiect made the
appointment of two technical experts to the state enterprises a condition of credit
effectiveness. IDA found it necessary to nostnone the effectiveness date of the nroiect twice
because the selection of consultants to assist the Savannakhet Road and Bridge Construction
Company (SRBCC) in its nrivatization prwess was a condition of effectiveness=
*   Third, the design of the project explicitly recognized the risks the project implementation
faced due to lack of availability of adequate local budgetary revenues. It paid special attention
to the budgetary constraints the Government was facing so as to ensure annual allocation of
funds for road maintenance. However, at the time of appraisal, agreement on a set of
performance indicators was not reached. A retrofitting exercise was therefore necessary later
during implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Road Transport Efficency
Overall achievement of the project objectives was satisfactory. The investments in roads
contributed to transport efficiency. The improved roads led up to reduced travel time from the capital city
of Vientiane to the city of Savannakhet from 2 days to 5 hours. The increased transport efficiency also led
up to better access to markets, social services, increased agricultural products and better income,
contributing to IDA's principal mission of poverty alleviation. The resulting increased efficiency in
transport services also enhanced the functioning of the domestic market. Price differences between the
surmlus and deficit region have narrowed. Strengthening institutional capacity, in terms of laying the
foundation for the planning and programming and contracting of works, contributed to the overall transport
efficiency. Both formal and on-the-job training contributed to improved nerformance in budgeting.
planning, contracting, and supervision.
Contracting Industry
Privatization was delayed due to the asset valuation problems particularly for equipment for which
there is limited secondary market in Lao. Although the local construction industry still lacks adequate
modem equipment, funds and qualified staff, the drive towards liberalization has contributed to the
emergence of a domestic contracting industry. The three SOEs were converted into one SOE, Savannakhet
- 5-



Road and Bridge Construction Company (SRBCC). SRBCC has moved further towards being privatized.
(Tne management and tie employees of the company bought 51 percent of the share in December 1997).
SRBCC performed well with two direct contracts totalling US$5.5 million and entered into a joint venture
with a foreign Company (a major contract valued at US$13 miilion through ICB procedure under
IDA-financed project).
4.2 Outputs by components:
The specific project development outputs by component are summaized below:
A. Upgrading of the maintenance capacity
The focus of this component was to carry out urgently needed maintenance works and to continue
the lon.g-terl  flprocs of P tahliching arn .f.fectivr roadl mai,nfPn,nP capabilt 4,,- rhih vv-e otff..4ta I--
HIP. In both areas progress has been made under the project as follows:
Program of spot improvement and periodic maintenance. Besides completing 100 percent of the
_A--AA       V- __r       r    .- -rv4AL;            +U   _ ;A_A_ A_A _-AA C__+A_A_ A; __A AAA -- 1sU_ 1
.ULASLuL E    ` Lv ;L Uy v.OUL OF"t Ju41 U           Ufl., -pVJ%vL Inaut a VL,,VUUfLL UVM LUIW 
development of the contracting industry. Initially, the project was to finance some 2,000 km of a three-year
spoL UUi-Vr0vCMICn+L pjLVri,a.Ln consis1L:ng VI a larnr . I1UULLVL VI sirlUI AVUcUMAs WIL5 IUL sLze Varying UVLWeUe
US$10,000 and US$250,000. However, the targets for spot improvement and periodical maintenance were
A_e uet 4-n-d 1 _avalblt offnigudr the:_  . amn-ded     --t geer.ent In u  end, the -roJect
iVUU%,VU UUV LU "n~ULv avauiaumtiy V. .uuLu.LLr LLUnui LwLv VuILUVU %,LVU1L arLV1~VLL.LL L LUUV, CLIU, LLLU P10Jj L
financed only 50 percent or 1,000 km of its original targets.
First year procurement (1995/96) was planned and executed using direct contracting to private
contuUcators aMud uie staLe eLiterpr1se, wiUiil uhe NCBn p[UceU[cs werC UCing uevelopeu for LiC RWoaU
Maintenance Management Division (RMMD) under the project, The procedure developed comprised: (i)
conuitons of contract (based on tLe IDA SIMs lor smauer works); and (ii) specifications, bils oI
quantities, contracts and acceptance of works. During the second and third years, the NCB documentation
was tested for the spot improvement and periodic maintenance. A total Of 13 spot improvement contracts
were executed at a total cost of US$1.83 million. Of the two periodic maintenance contracts planned to test
the NCB procedures, one contract could noT be compieted given me aforementioned reduction in the
allocated resources.
Beside upgrading critical sections of the road network, this component developed and tested
bidding documents and procedures for future uses. The contracts created opportunities for contractors to
familiarize themselves with bidding documents and procurement procedures, and to create basic
understanding of quality control and supervision of contracts.
Threeyear program of routine maintenancefinancedfrom local budget. Routine planning
procedures were introduced together with improved NCB bidding procedures, documents and staff training.
However, the Government, facing a deteriorating exchange rate (LAK 720 = US$1 in June 1993; LAK
3,200 = US$1 in May 1998) was not able to meet the agreed minimum budget for the program in real
terms (US dollar), and was able to allocate funds to maintain only the most critical sections of the national
road network.
Organization and execution of the road maintenance program. RMMD, with the assistance of
TA, prepared a five-year maintenance program, developed a Bridge Maintenance Database, standard
bidding documents, annual maintenance programs and documents for management of works. A road
- 6 -



referencing system was established by the Government The TA was designed to: (a) establish the
RMMD; (b) bring forward the arterial network to a maintainable condition; and (c) establish a bridge
maintenance system. The reduction in scope of the spot improvement and maintenance program, the TA
was correspondingly reduced and completed at the end of 1997.
B. Development of Construction Industry
The exercise towards privatization of SRBCC was a major development in the context of
establishing a local contracting industry. Three State-Owned Enterprises were joined to form SRBCC. The
accounting system of the company was set up. Cost accounting and control procedure were completed by
July 1997. SRBCC's capability was strengthened to the point that it was able to execute direct and ICB
contracts. The first three contracts were directly contracted. The last contract (3 lots) was under ICB with
SRBCC winning the bid under a joint venture. The privatization of SRBCC, however, proved to be time
consuming. This was mainly because of the weak secondary equipment market, which caused difficulty in
asset valuation problems and the impact of the East Asia financial crisis.
C. Road Improvement
Sections of National Route 13S & Savannakhet-Pakse Road Improvement. NR 13 is the sole
road linking the southern part of Lao PDR to the central region around Vientiane and to the north of the
country. A section of NR 13, Savannakhet - Pakse Road, was improved under the Southern Transport
Project (Cr. 1846-LA). The current proiect was to improve 135 km of the road from gravel road standard
to a 9 meter wide formation with 6 meter double surface treatment. Funds under the project were
redirected to rehabilitate 70 km of Routel3S between Namkading and Savannakhet which was contracted
out under HIP. As a result, the total length of the Savannakhet-Paske Road was reduced to 55 km
consisting of three sections of the road, Seno-Ban-Lak 35, Savannakhet to Ban-Lak 35, and Savannakhet
by-pass (Road A-1). The three sections were contracted out in six lots to SRBCC and satisfactorily
comnleted.
Rehabilitation of 70 km of NR 13S. Namkading - Savannakhet This sub-comnonent was
originally planned to be financed under HIP. The works were executed according to the contracts and
procedures estahlished under HITP_ During the defect liability period, the road showed serinu- signs of
localized deterioration. Investigation showed that two major slip failures had occurred and that the erosion
wna dale tn hvdrnIlo^nil nrnblem  Aftera series nf investicutinnq it was determined that the rnntractrr the
design and supervision consultant, as well as the employer, shared responsibility for the defects. The total
rernedi awnrVe w-re estimrnuteA at TTUS@ 68R millinn The linhilltu ws annnprti-ned am ^ng the rnntrnntnr
consultant and the employer. The contractor agreed to carry out 15 km of remedial works, a considerable
part at his oWn expense. An amicahle ettlpmpnft uwth rnncrPtart .was alson rearthed  iv corbinhed liahbilit,
for both structural design and construction supervision amounted to US$2.86 million, covering some 28
r_r_nfn At e1, n -aA - pn tl-,  1,_ n,arlrc --tr- r-an,n lMaA .-A Arf.,+ -hl.i,- toartrprfi   n,no' -AeeeA f-r ha+Il
construction contracts in March 2001.
Rehabilitation of Bridge on NR 13S Improvement. Following reallocation of the credit to bridge
sln  ~~a4ifD a.,l-1-T TOOf A C -.II;- ---- +_ 4.,.               -f.,..  la,.. a4T TOOC CZ -.11- --
LiAulauvm fig EaP oA 11AA, only US$0.4 rAillion compred *.o *d [e o,.ginal zhllcaton uf US$2.5~ rsAL lionL was
allocated to this component. A total of 11 contracts covering priority bridges on the National Highway
wereC LrehabJU'LaLU by AuLUsL 1770. 1.e L.er.LU4aly UbIUr,de WLre lIVL ouUL L* Ube ePLMVU.. Uy pe.-11.IULaL
structure under TRIP.



Construchon Supervision. The supervision consultants were selected using the quality- and
cost-based selection process and financed under the Southern Transport Project The supervision of works
was carried out with special focus on strengthening the local supervision through participation in
supervision of works.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
TA for Project Coordination Unit The Consultant who has been working on HIP was retained to
assist the Project Management Unit The project coordinator used a simple financial and physical
monitoring system based on the experience of HIP for all project components and contracts.
TA for Transport Planning Unit (TPL). TPU was established under HIP. The task of
self-sustained development has begun, although it is likely to take continuous improvement through various
technical assistance. The trained staff now undertake some of the assignments which were undertaken by
foreign experts. The Transpoit Planning Unit provides data, advice and training to MCTPC staff in
support of the establishment of its transport plan. In addition, the unit carried out annual traffic counts,
provided training and assistance to the provincial and communications departments and carried out
seminars and lectures in economics and planning to senior ministry personnel.
Training. Beside on-the-job training, fellowship for training of five staff for bachelor's degree,
three in civil engineering and two in economics, was provided under the project
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The major components financed by the project were of high economic benefit. However, it is not
easy to fully quantify the benefits of all the components. The development of the contracting industry,
technical assistance and training have distinct costs and are essential to sustainable development. Where it
is easily quantifiable, as is in the case of road maintenance, the economic benefit is so high that there is no
limited value in estimating it For the same reason, the SAR had not undertaken any formal economic
evaluation.
The appraisal estimate for the 135 km road constructed with base course on a 9-meter wide
platform with 6-meter wide pavement together with the bridge rehabilitation, and technical assistance for
supervision to the state enterprise was for a total cost of US$18.3 million. It was also anticipated that
works would begin in late 1994 and substantially completed in 1999. After seven years, an application of
prime coat and single surface treatment would be required. On this basis, vehicle operating cost savings for
the base case of 7 percent annual traffic growth yielded an economic rate of return of 28 percent.
The actual length of Savannakhet-Paske section of Route 13S under SHIP was reduced to 55 km.
The construction was carried out as planned, with 9-meter platform and 6-meter wide pavement The total
completion cost was US$9.9 million. Normally, the traffic growth was below expectation and the post
construction ERR estimate was 22 percent (see Section 9). For the Namrkading- Savannakhet section of
Route 13S, including the sections rehabilitated with SHIP funds, the estimated ERR after completion of the
works (see ICR of HIP) is 23.4 percent compared to the appraisal ERR estimate of 17 percent.
For the Savannakhet-Ban Lak 35 section, the 28 percent ERR target was achieved. For Seno-Ban
Lak 35 section, the traffic growth was less than expected and the ERR value was estimated to be around 10
percent. The economic analysis was carried out by the supervising engineers as part of the completion
report and verified by the Bank.



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the project was positive. Capacity in road maintenance planning,
budgeting, and control has been improved. Progress was made in the practices of contracting-out, project
management, and in establishing the foundation of SOEs privatization. The Government demonstrated
significant contract negotiation skills. Through amicable settlement, the Government resolved the defect
liability of the Namkading-Savannakhet road dispute. Delays in privatization, however, were more likely
due to the economic condition of the country than lack of commitment on the part of the Governrnent. There
was a growing awareness about the importance of road maintenance. The improved efficiency of the road
transport helped the functioning of the domestic markets and enhanced integration of the regional markets
within the country.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Fartnrm nutvide the control of government or implementing agency:
Pricing structure. The transition to market economy changed the prevailing relative prices. As a
result, the contractors' cost estimates for Namkading-Savannaket were found to be far below the true costs.
This led to the credit amendment to cover the cost increase.
Heavy rain. The unexpected heavy seasonal rain delayed construction.
Domestic market. Absence of a competitive market for second-hand eauipment made valuation of
equipment difficult. TA advisors were unable to finalize the assessment of the depreciated equipment value
and other asqetc Moreover. to formulate acceptable values to be naid to the Government they faced
difficulties in coming up with the proposed ownership pattern and amortization of assets. This contributed
tn the d^ipav in the nrivatization of SRRCC.
Del>a,ve in TA skeirned wrnrke Althnno4h tenhnwien ne6istnnr.i wnq nrnuvide for mnrF thnn si-Y
months, a civil works costing system, procurement system, and a list of company assets and equipment
value ,w,ere not ready at the plannned dt-e. MCTPC had to reqnest the TA consultants Head Office to
ensure that an adequate and timely services would be provided.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Amicable resolution of defect liability. Following the discovery of poor quality civil works, the
Government, having identified the causes of failures, took measures to rectify the defects in the quality of
construction.
-9-



inys pn proUje Clefi'euveness f ehe Th  ird rmgnway Improvement Project ii nan Deen
anticipated that THOP would bridge the financing gap for contracts under HIP. However, the delays in the
pruject effectuveness made it necessary to utnlizee eunds approved under SHPr.
5.3. F-£ r ge,J eraClfly .flWJCLCt 4.,,.lme,r age,CEC&fl 5C.y L(Jfl&2(J:
Enforeing contracti. With the aqsistAnce of the Rank Otff the imniementing aena,y wac able tn
document the defects and pursue the liabilities due to defects in structuml design and supervision by the
cnntratr and 9sTupervising ennquiltrnt
Poor construcion quality. Tnitially, some 80 mpter A f  TN  13 nerW A;- .1, --A
towards the river and required urgent reconstruction. The need to remedy the poor quality of works caused
Aplnue althn,iahl uth thP aAi4. ,f tf  ,  AT thf v16 tpn.  l Aan   x -,o 
5.4 Cots and financina:
The revised total project cost was currently estimated at US$29.65 million, compared to SAR
estimates of US$33.37 millon. The unutilized balance is US$3.62 million. The government recovered
about US$4.05 million through amicable settlement of the dispute with the contract and consultant. The
unutilized balance of the credit was slightly smaller than the amount of the disputed claim. Taking into
consideration the uncertainty of how the settlement of the Namkading-Savannakhet would be resolved, the
final US Dollar costs was very close to the SAR projected figures.
6. Sustalnability
6. Rationalefor sustainabiitiy rating:
The project is likely to mai ntain the benefit. s.;A  rela";on 'o +;.'s ;  -_ o  e
economic life for the following reasons:
* First, institutional reform and capacity building have taken place under SHIP and subsequent
MA-f -----A pJects ,1 *.Le area of r UaU ..aML:U4U. In Ta  14.Utiv', Uie i.-JU1 ance of
maintenance in sustaining life of infrastructure has been well recognized by the MCTPC. The
Road 'vi-amtemanc 1VIk1irue.nt IJIVIsULo V.ViIr.U duLLnLdr. 'I A  been siLi;ngWIaiinU UndUCr
SHIP and was further strengthened under the subsequent IDA-financed projects.
*   Second, the progress made in strengtiening the institutional capacities to plan, manage and
main ain the national hignway network will 'nave a positive impact on the overall management
of the road network. The Transport Planning Unit, established in the Department of Roads in
199i, has-been strengthened with trained staff.
* T. A fL IA 1N .+ _. _;-_A,. .+-X,  -.+-A  .-_A  .._ A;A+-  -.-   -41 1  LA  _  AI.   A-4   A - -   A AJA A
-  .£s-U lca   +uwAL1L du1sUW  W A A U W   UI1., FJ.vJ1.4 WILL A JuLuvL ULVV1IPGGUp UUUS;
the subsequent projects i.e., Third Highway Improvement Project (Cr. 2943-LA) and Road
1V_   A   * t(r._4 -81 A
*   FUA LUL, inLUIIL BLUUp incLLUULin UIV 1JUU-cLLUULr :dIUU-wty anUU UUbuiLLnbs rUUp;S W-v  ia-vor an
increase in the road maintenance budget, are active and vocal in raising their concerns. Also,
the commercia in erest arising from the increas ng interdependence of the domestic market,
with the flow of agricultural commodities from deficit to surplus regions, is likely to reinforce
.uh prsue on u*h Government *     eW a duuLe uequa-e irsouie ior roau maintenance.
- 10-



'o   Finally, measures now being taken to raise revenue from user charges are showing encouraging
biYU. inl 'UUb uli re a, M's R o.Uau 1viM-UL-'UUe rIujuit q%[. 34tO1LA)t Will 1Wliw --me,UlU7UL
the situation with the establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund managed by an Advisory
The nroiect is fillv onerational. The sector strate2v. which envisioned a series of follow-on
projects, had built-in transitional arrangement for sustainable operation. An 8-year maintenance program
is heinc financed by IDA through the Road Maintenance prniect (Cr. 3481 -T-A) The latter pnriect
promises to be an important phase in the systematic management of the road assets. Under the Road
MAintelnane Prniect a Rnad Maintenae Fund Advisorn Bo^rd has been estblished. Thlus, both the
resource and institutional constraints facing project sustainability are being addressed with IDA-funded
nrmip-tg ditQim,ptd tn -nhAince qiiqta hilitv within the fimP..unrk nf the trSnanntt s>-tnr atrtem- . The
local contracting industry capacity built through the liberalization process will increasingly provide the
hSftuit,iional ndnA tp hnir.. npanrnft ec tn evecY t. t1he =nnii,,p. nrpltinna.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending:
Ideiniclation of the project as nted earniev  based on +16. Go-e-en46 's
development's priorities. The Program included restoration of vital sections of the transport network and
*ha[e pm.nsaio.n of ;mnprn.,0e4 4rnnennrt servinc 1'.m A socnn~.atio cn's t.n in L ao PDRl n,nc lals m,.,n.4t, of
the Government's effort in promoting economic growth and reducing poverty, maintining macroeconomic
sb:LauLy, Jl11J.LLur U,LnuO}umv Ut,_  SLeUL,A4  VJpog ILe ILULULUI L'O%JLU..V Ue V"UJjJILiLn, Gul
developing market oriented agriculture and managing natural resources.
Preparation of project investment was assisted by the National Transport Study, supported by the
T T_:!_- -T___ 'T__1-,AA_   T%-_A  .  T TkTAT'%T   -_S YTr% A  __ 'L__C_ _ -_C ,1__L
UilulU i'4UUuIm L.#vblUp1illLl rlVrULLUiu kLJViLJr) w1u 1IU^ WIUl bIgUUInltWL pm UViliUUU Ul Ulb IUiUII awU.I.
The staff later formed the nucleus of the Transport Planning Unit within MCTPC.
Appraisal identified the potential risks. The main risks were related to project implementation
capacity and the lack of maineae managemen stanf. Te implem tation risks wer to be minimized
through the provision consultant services to help coordinate project activities, implementation, as well as
supervision. To reduce the need for high level maintenance, a i5-year design standard was adopted.
However, in some areas, the materials used for road surface for the sub-grade and sub-base did not meet
the specification's requirements. Tne expectation that the iocal human capacity weakness would be
compensated by expatriate staff did not materialize as anticipated. The risks due to inadequacy of
maintenance budget were to be mitigated through improved user charges over the medium term was not
realized.
Overall IDA's performance in lending operations was satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision is assessed as satisfactory. The skill mix was appropriate. Bank staff insisted
on qnli;t of n :s Bns,lr n  oto' a,nsu,mport-n- toea rrnnarnrnn  n c for ;Xla ,nffiects of
-1 1-



1NaJ1IUiLflUgSVWill'LUWL IIroadU, uLnJ.iig DULLi *Lii WnMULLUiUI1 ad1U ULU UCdfc li iiiyL periucL WUlrl uie
investigation showed that the Namkading-Savannakhet road failure was not the result of force majuer
events, The Bank supported amicable rsolu in of uie I-airns -wiui ih   ntractors. in ihe course of
pursuing this matter the Government staff gained practical experience on how to enforce contracts.
Moreover this action had positive unpaci on the performance of future contractors.
7.'- L'Vta.' D-,.
Overall Bank performance wac satisfactorv. Bank assistance in the framing of the sector
investment on long-term development strategy and the preparation was satisfactory. Supervision had
positive impact on intituntional canacitv hbiltdiinog and trannnrt efficiency onhieniveq of the proiectt The
delays in the effectiveness date of THIP led to restructuring of the SHIP. This was one area where the Bank
i-niii hnv.e hetter assessed the risk nnd imnpct of deIinv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower has shown commitment to the development of its road transport infrastructure. To
its awareness of limited experience in developing sector strategy, the Borrower called on IDA and UTNDP to
assist in undertaking the National Transport Study. The Study helped in determining priority needs: a)
defined a detailed investment, operation and maintenance program for 1990-95; b) formulated an outline
development program for 1996-2000 and efficient sector policies; and c) identified projects for possible
foreign financing. The participants in the NTS became the nucleus of the Transport Planning Unit the
Government created to enhance its capacity.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Tne Government was committed to the prject objectives, and was keen in implementing the
program to achieve transport efficiency and sustainable road network. It was also committed to
liberalization of the economy. However, it was faced witi substantial constraints of resources and trained
staff, and difficulties of the small domestic market. Despite such constraints, it handled the claims arising
from the Namkading-Savannakhet road in a highly satisfactory manner.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Prnie.t Manavement T Tnit the Commminic2tinns flepnntmentq and Rnnd Mi_tenannce
Management Division played significant role in the implementation of components of the project. A
nrnioet ro%nrdinvtnr hbaed in Vientianne sistedi ePact of thpe hunve iinits in exveeltingr their rnese.ii,e
responsibilities. Overall, their performance was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower and its implementing agencies, despite its limited institutional and technical capacity
and resources, have shown commitment and have responded well to the challenges as they arose. Their
performance under the project is assessed as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
There are several valuable lessons that can be derived from the implementation experience of the
Second Highway Improvement Project with regard to the continued development of infrastructure in Lao
PDR.
- 12 -



Flexibility during implementation enhances reaching outcome oriented development
objectives. Tne SHiiP was a continuation of the HirP and shared the development objectives, including the
rehabilitation of sections of Highway Route 13S. When actual constructions costs of sections of Route
13S exceeded the HIP credit proceeds, the Government asked the Bank to restructure project components
and reallocate resources to complete rehabilitation works. Since the development objectives were outcome
oriented, the project was restructured witn little deiay as Bank's management promptly agreed to the
reallocation. Thus, the combination of outcome orientation, flexible project design, and timely response to
the implementation issues, saved significant cost and time while maintaining an effective development
impact on the ground.
Capacity building and commitment to infrastructure asset preservation require sustained
involvement over time. In developing countries such as Lao PDR, strengthening the capacity of
institutions to properly maintain and preserve infrastructure assets requires sustained comnitment to a
long-term development framework. An incremental transport sectof approach-based on a series of
rehabilitation projects with increased focus on maintenance and important capacity building
components-as proved to be effective in Lao. This framework has facilitated timely response to
implementation issues and proved to be conducive to building Borrower's commitment towards a long-term
sector development goal. A sustained engagement has also allowed improvements in skills of counterpart
staff and capacity of sector institutions over time.
Contract management and timely handling of contractual disputes are critical to attaining
high quality infrastructure. Some sections of Route 13S between Namnkading and Savannakhet had
shown construction defects which were corrected during the construction phase. Additional defects
appeared during the Defect Liability Period. Moreover, both vehicle axle loads and volume of traffic had
increased by about 150 percent over the projections. As advised by the Bank's supervision mission, a
series of field investigations and intensive studies were carried out by an independent consultant In
parallel, investigations were carried out by MTCPC and local consultants to identify the causes, extent and
liability of defects. Subsequently with the Bank's support, MCTPC was able to reach an amicable
settlement with the contractor, and the estimated liability was apportioned among the contractor,
consultants and the employer. Both MCTPC and the contractor ultimately benefited from the resolution of
this dispute.
9. Partner U ComrRenIta
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Introduction
The Second Highway Improvement Program (SHIP) is a direct continuation of highway projects
implemented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Lao PDR (MCTPC), and through its
Department of Roads (DOR). These are:
* Southern Transport Project 1988 - 1995 (Credit 1846-LA), US$14.1 million;
* Highway Improvement Project (Credit No 2218-LA), 1991- 1997, US$49.2 million
(including NDF credit No 4/90, US$5 million).
- 13 -



I nu ariir nas Lim disundiorn of conunuing Lute ruau sctor reiorm m reiauoun wiun mLe Government
policy of transition towards market economy and laying the foundation for mainstreaming the concept of
managemenit and maintenance of the road network.
Tne Project was complewed m December L0U01, anrer a six month extension of tne ongmal scnedule.
The Project Monitoring Division (PMD) of the Department of Roads assisted by a team of representatives
from other Departments and Divisions in the Ministry has compiled this report Tne report reflects tne
borrower's view of the implementation of the Project and has been endorsed by the Govermment
Project Background and Design
The Project formulation started in the early 1990's during the implementation of the Highway
Improvement Project (HIP). At this time the Government identified the following development objectives in
road sector:
1. Restoration of vital sections of transport network such as:
* National Road& 13 and 9;
*   Other main roads supporting agricultural production; and
a   Rural aG-eS rnads in noTimiltu-ra areas.
2. Improving road maintenance capacity of central and provincial organizations.
3. Improve transport services in general.
All these issues were critical to pursue the overall policies of the Government aimed at
=dronnlhanin thea eco nl hase nf th1ea Crm  and redA ucir.gf ifnAtr-.rpnnrol ficaro.Nt  *n, mn^ " aned
development The Government requested project preparation assistance from the World Bank to formulate
UlA   L v L iJ6A .Y U=  a . *   JSLI vII .jI t-in 1fll-S5 6 v -
A - a rewult½ eUi  --a - I la.uoJtf Trpo   tu   was -- UAy t-MA. -A&T. Tns  -A dcorupletdA  I Onl1.
The study concentrated on outlining the road sector programming, policies and identification of priorities.
LLL 1  1, the sIor lJP:J a I  -aung, TLJiUL (TAv U) was eLaUblisheU in LL. ' .eDpa ua.ent of AWaJOUO WiiJ IUl
framework of HIP to:
*   Collect and review basic data on roads, traffic and necessary improvements; and
*   Sturngthen insIutuUuu  capacityv fo planning, uuAr.VLUlry pwusganm .i.... andu iua1i.LafLnig Luu c
National Road Network.
The Road Maintenance Management Division (RMMD) was created under the HIP to pursue the
first real efIorts to address road r naninidM tenance in ute country. TIe Go-verliinUL waned wO conunue and
strengthen this effort under the next project. The SHIP outline was completed during appraisal mission of
June 1993 based on the established government policies, lessons iearned from the previous projects, various
studies and data collected by TPU. The Staff Appraisal Report was submitted in March 1994 leading to the
signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) in july 1994.
- 14 -



Project Objectives and Planned Outputs by Components
The Govermment agreed to the following main project objectives:
a. Increase the effectiveness of the Country's road network by road improvements on NR 13S
between Savannakhet-Pakse;
b. Strengthen the institutional capacity in road management by providing technical assistance;
c. Maintain the National Road Network through spot improvements, periodic and routine
maintenance, and
d. Create a local contracting industry by commercialization of selected state owned enterprises.
In relation to the above objectives the following outputs were planned over a five year
implementation period:
Road Rehabilitation
*   NR 13S between Savannakhet - Pakse improvement from gavel road standard to a 9 m wide
formation with 6 m DBST surface (135 lan);
* Rehabilitation of 36 temporary bridges on the above mentioned road; and
* Construction supervision for the imnlementation (96 staff-months).
r(nnQitv Rniidina
* Technical assistance for the Project Coordination Unit (Project Coordinator, 24 staff-months);
* Technical assistance for Transport Planning Unit ( 1 expert, 12 staff-months); and
*   Short term training, visits abroad, fellowships (5).
Maintenance
*      o *npo.    tv amA ,per,nA riat inkni ey cnitrmet4n& ni 200A hm nf Natineai mna2,
over a three-year period;
* Routine Maintenance, financed by the Government, on a network of 5,449 km over a
three-year period,
* Technical assistance for the execution of the maintenance programs (4 experts); and
* Specialized short term technical assistance for SHIP- management (auditors etc.).
Contracting Industry
*   TeLCUMch assisUtace Luo oneLS, state eWeI frctAJOL cotdn, ' ;atuin and pojt.
management (two experts, total 48 staffinonths).
- 15 -



Special Credit Covenants and agreements
The following covenants and agreements were well formulated and had a positive impact on the
timely implementation of the project without confusing Project objectives or outputs. There have been no
major obstacles in fulfilling these conditions either before or during the implementation.
a. Appointment of consultants for technical assistance to the selected state enterprise.
b. Establishment of the Project Management Unit for the supervision of the works for
Savannakhet-Pakse road improvement maintaining this unit until the completion of the works
with responsibilities and staffing acceptable to the IDA.
c. Enviruo  entalG uuiueles approved by Prime Mvinstenal Dere.
d. Government financing of its share of the Proiect for 1995/1996 US$1.4 million, 1996/1997
US$1.8 million and 1997/1998 US$3.4 million with a line item in MCTPC budget.
e. Agreement to annual reviews no later than October 31 for each fiscal year.
f. Proiect Coordination Unit will be maintained for the duration of the Proiect
g. The selected State Enterprise to be maintained until the end of the Project.
h. In LCB the bidding documents wiU be available in English and in Lao. Foreign contractors are
allowed to participate in the biddina without preregistration.
1. Annual audits will be carried out on Project and Special Accounts according to international
standards.
i. Quarterly progress reports and Proiect Completion Report (Borrower's contribution) will be
submitted to the World Bank.
Project Implementation by Components and Output
Increased costs for Namkading-Savannakhet road improvement under HIP caused major changes
in the (rwit Anllntinn in late I QQS hnwever the nhientiveaq nf the Prnieet were nnt Ahnnaed The fnllnwing
reallocations to HIP were confirmed in an amendment to the DCA in February 1996:
*   Category 1 (bridge rehabilitation)  US$2.5 million (originally US$2.95 million)
*   Category 1 (civil works)       US$4.5 million  (originylly US$6.25 million.)
*   Category 2 (spot improvements)  US$7.0 million (originally US$15.13 million)
*   Category 3 (consultancy services)  US$1.0 million (originally US$2.43 million)
Since funds for spot improvements were decreased by 50 percent and for upgrading and civil
wLAa Uby Vp       J%., -vJ plan=e oujuts of - A e  jwt w Ve n e  -Vtnc.-.
*   A network of 1,000 km for spot improvements and bridge rehabilitation;
*   Upgrading of 55 In of Routes 13 and 1; and
*   Rehabilitation of 70 km of Route 13S between Namkading and Savannakhet
- 16 -



Road Rehabilitation
a) NR 13S between Savannakhet - Pakse improvement from gravel road standard to a 9-m wide
formation with 6-m DBST surface
Due to the decrease of funds. the planned output was decreased to 55 kIn and to contain Route 13S
between Seno - Ban-Lak 35, Savannakhet to Ban-Lak 35 and Savannakhet by-pass. All the, Contracts
were completed in time with satisfactorv qualitvy
rnnfart I   Signped   CnmmPnced I rnmnlptiln I Mode of I       Fn, Cost     1
1  _dVa,tKe_0_1date  Contract  (US$ million)
I  .z3  iOt)  11         I 7/I     __O__I __ _ 1/  r;.-+ n) 7
2 (I lot)   2/29/96      3/23/96      4/23/98      Direct   |_2_7_l
3 (3 lOtSJ | 6l/2/9      77/|11/97^  1 /3i/99        iC 26l         .> 9
Average cost of construction was US$i20,2004m Average production rate of completed road per
month of contract period was 1.65 km.
b) Rehabilitation of 36 temporary bridges on Route 13S
Originally, only US$0.45 million remained for bridge rehabilitation after the reallocation of funds
to HIP. The 1996/1997 and 1998/1999-bridge imnpvements program.s were conmnleted in August 199R
with total disbursements of US$0.793 million. A further US$0.721 million was used for the final part of
the nromrnm during 2001. Pr orty obietvives and outputs were accomplished for the reduced sqone of the
component for priority bridges on the National road network. In view of the proposed Third Highway
prioect (T1P) it wan not fensihIe to carrv out maior rehabilitntion on te.mporary hridves that woulld be
replaced by permanent structures in the near future.
c) Construction superisionfor the implementation (96 staff-months)
The supervision was carried out successfully by international consultants with appropriate
attention to strengthen both local supervision capacity and the contractor's management of works. Six local
supervisors were trained during the process. Supervision costs were at 15 percent of the costs for the
works.
Capacity Building
a) Technical assistancefor the Project Coordination Unit (Project Coordinator, 24 staffmonths)
The Project Coordinator (international expert) that was employed for the implementation of HIP
co< U.- -i --- -vices sucssulyw+U- +Ue  o.kof SnT. A s:_i.~ecia   -Arl _U-_:_ic
monitoring system was continued and further developed based on experience from HIP for all project
corm-onn', -an --- acts
A VGL75IU.W U &)SU5"LCJUF A F"taUH.JJ! A £UOFg5~55 lull (A C_VI A & .aiUJJffOUI5W5.)
An International expert provided these services satisfactorily. Statistics for road management were
collected including expenditures for operations into a simple database.
-17 -



c) Short-term training, visits abroad fellowshiDs (5)
Intemational and national workshops were financed by the Project. Three annual training programs
have been implemented for a total of 60 short courses and 9 fellowships utilizing the available funds
efficiently. The total number of participants in training was 1,000 with nearly 1,700 staffmonths. English
language traiunig was 70 percent of the total output
Maintenance
a) Spot improvements andperiodic maintenance by contracting on 2,000 km of national roads over a
three-year period
The scope was reduced to cover only 50 percent of the original network. Only US$1.88 million
remnine f-r the oricinal JMJ o^utpults and the activitiem were a c-ntinuAtion of the HMT project. Direct
Contracts (22) under US$50,000 were used for the FY1995/1996 spot improvement program worth
USS1.!24 million wuith dwditional uwrks for the kpy netw.ork wor-rth US$0.16 million. Procurement was
based on a minimum of three quotations for each contract, because NCB documentation was being
A--I-A 4- A,m,wnr       t nrAoram 1V1 00V/1 007 otartPA 11c-inn Irpal r%mnPtiutP1 hiAAlinc _in
US$0.646 million was committed on 13 contracts. A total of approximately US$1.83 million was utilized
It^o SLTD .-Ad +16                                 + re|m  opewds_esiybfr he wet apacem in 998
Two pe-iodic =.; m...... confr ,,ts were  to  t toe. NICBr nrnmirmArnt in 1002 Tha
original allocation was reduced from US$0.6 to US$0.4 million. As a result, only one of these contracts
was successfi.lly completed.
This comnonent was essentially imnortant to:
*   Upgrade critical sections of the road network to maintainable standard;
*   Develop bidding documents and procedures for further use on bigger contracts;
*   Familiarize contractors for the bidding and procurement process; and
*   ('reate haqic iinderqtAndinpy of qiualitv control and sunervision of contracts.
It is regrettable that the original size of the comnonent was shqta ntiallv reduced nreventin'
upgrading of continuous network for about 1,000 kIn to maintainable standard to facilitate efficient routine
and pr:e^4fr' m itentanre Thi er--eteid nrnhleniq fnr the nteYt nronram nhhapes (TT-TP and RMA) that need
to include spot improvements in their concept,
b) Routine Maintenance,financed by the Government, on a network of 5,449 km over a period of
The Government struggled to fulfill the agreed financial commitments in order to reduce the gap
between earlier budgetary needs for road maintenance. The budgetary commitments were made in US$
terms. The exchange rate of LAK/JS$ that was 720 at the time of appraisal (June 1993) steadily
deteriorated to 3,200 by the end of May 1998. The trend accelerated thereafter. At the same time the
relevant price indexes (Consumer, Energy and Construction, and Transport and Communications)
increased by 50 percent
In spite of all these financial difficulties, MCTPC managed to secure enough funds from the
consolidated budget to carry out basic routine maintenance tasks for the essential parts of the National
- 18-



Rnad Netwnrk Routine maintenance nIanningr waS omdullalv introdiurced together with annromnriate NCR
bidding procedures, documents, and training of staff.
Financial 1   Agreed       Agreed      Actual       Actual      CPIand
Year       minimum      minimum      budget       budget    Construction
budget       budget    nKP bilHon)  taidng into    Index
(US$ millin  (ubllion)  jaccount j______
l    l             |~~~~~~~(KIP blllon) |I 2  | aC°PUI  I    
95/96         1.4     [    1.0      1  3.980  L    3.71   l    107
96/97          1.8    l   1.296     I  5.152       4.15   7     124
97/98         3.4         2.448       3.273   J    1.50        217
1/ Based on average exchange rates LAK 720 / US$1 and CPI base index of 100
2/ Including emergency works
c) Technical assistance for the execution of the maintenance programs (4 experts)
Due to the reduction in the scope of the Project, consultancy input for TA to RMMD was reduced
in late 1995, respectively. TA consultants were appointed to RiviID and started in May i996 with
five-year maintenance planning, condition analysis, and development of bridge database as priorities.
Standard bidding documents, annual maintenance programs, and documents for management of worKs were
prepared. Road numbering system was developed and agreed by the Government in June 1997. The
technical assistance component was satisfactorily completed at tne end of 1997.
d) Specialized short-term technical assistance for SHiP management
Regular annual audits have been carried out by local consultants to the satisfaction of the borrower
and the World Bank Communications Design Research Institute (CDRI) contract was extended from HIP
to cover additional designs and bidding documents for the civil works. Special experts and local consultants
were hired for the analysis of defects and failures on Route 13N. A short term legal expert was employed
for legal advise on the liability issues on Route 13S.
Contracting Industry
Technical assistancefor one state enterprisefor cost accounting, estimating and project management
(two experts, total 48 staffmonths)
International technical assistance to state enterprise SRBCC started in late 1995 with the priority
of setting up the accounting system. SRBCC privatization plan started in May 1996. SRBCC cost control
and accounting procedures were completed by the end July 1997. This consultancy assignment was not in
all respects satisfactory measured by the impact of the Services. The Contractor's capacity was obviously
limited to make efficient use of the theoretical approach and the computer programs that were introduced
were complicated and sophisticated. The Consultants did not adapt the systems to suit the local
environment and to comply with the enterprise's capacity and expectations. On the positive side, the
company made successful ICB bids for Contract 3 in SHIP and, later on, as partner in a joint-venture, for
Contract 1 in THIP.
- 19 -



Additional Works
Rehabilitation of 70 kn of R13 S between Namkading and Savannakhet
This component was added to finance unexpected additional works in the HIP (SDR 9.37 million,
US$12.8 million equivalent). The works were carried out according to the contracts and procedures
established under the HIP and were taken over in April 1997. During the Defects Liability Period, two
major slip failures occurred, hydrological problems especially related to erosion were discovered and the
road showed serious signs of localized deterioration. After a series of investigations, the Contractor carried
out 15 km of remedial works. An amicable settlement was reached so that the contractor compensated US$
0.573 million for the defects. An amicable settlement was also reached with the design and supervision
consultants that compensated US$136,296.10 for the Client's losses. The works have now been completed
and defects liability certificate was issued for both construction contracts in May 2001.
Costs of the Project
About 98 percent of the planned costs (SDR 21.8 million, US$30 million equivalent) have been
disbursed. Most of the savings are due to Category 2 (Civil works, Savannakhet -Pakse) and technical
assistance services to RMMD (later on Road Administration Division).
Benefits of the Project
The most important benefit of the project is the recognition of the primary importance of road
maintenance to safeguard the road assets and to continue developing the maintenance management as a
priority. As a result of the project the road users directly benefited from reduced vehicle operating costs on
the rehabilitated road sections with increased reliability for movement of goods and passengers. This
indirectly increased to economical activities that were dependent on the transport routes contributing to the
agricultural and commercial development.
The target of Economic Rate of Return of 28 percent for the road improvement component was
reached for the section Savannakhet -Ban Lak 35. For Seno- Ban Lak 35 the traffic growth was less than
expected and the ERR value was estimated to be around 10 percent
The spot improvement works improved the continuity of the road network and enabled the road
sections to be routinely and periodically maintained in the future. The development of databases,
documentation and management processes paved the way for the improvement of road maintenance
management tools. The human resources development essentially upgraded the key personnel to carry out
the required management duties for effective road maintenance and pursue its adequate financing.
The development of local contracting industry benefited one single state enterprise and established
the necessarv arrangements for it's privatization.
TntIltitionsal T_sues
The Proiect was concentfted on the develnnment of central ministrv orgoanintion to execute mrd
management. For this purpose, the establishment of RMMD and TPU proved to be beneficial in general
tprns. The Govemment policy for decentmfi7Ation of the road mnamogement to loscl l,evel .was only partly
included in the Project concept but provided the possibility to gradually start moving towards the
CVFrnmF-nt'leeP.ntr1i7Ation ohiprtive.
-20 -



The operational guidelines and standards for the Ministry were often prepared separately under
each component. A systematic development and issuance of these documents would have improved the
adoption of the practices in central and local level. Some documents and guidelines were left at draft stage
without final approval from the Ministry.
The Manpower and Organization Division (MODD) of MCTPC was active in implementing the
human resources development component. However, a systematic management of all training activities
within the Project components would have required MODD to take an active role in the overall
management and monitoring of all training (including on-the-job and language training). This was difficult
because the Ministry internal management structure and practices of the Ministry were in accordance with
strict top-down, line-management principles without flexible inter-linkages between various Divisions and
Departments. Moreover, the role of the PCU was concentrated on the coordination and monitoring of
project activities without official executive institutional status in the Ministry's organization.
None of these institutional issues had serious effects in the implementation of the Project, but left
some room for considerable improvement in the future.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
The institutional development and training carried out under the Proiect provided the basis for a
reasonable amount of sustainability in basic road maintenance management at the central level. However,
the dependence on foreign assistance will continue to prevail for a considerable time in the future especially
taking into account:
*   the vast financing gap for road maintenance;
*   backlog of maintenance reouiring coneiderahle investments for rehabilitation/snot
imnprovements;
*   the age of the main road network that requires major structural improvement in the near
future;
* lack of qualified permanent staff for road management in central, and especially local level;
*   lack of qualified services and works from local consultants and contractors for contracting;
and
*   gradual shift to asphalt concrete and stabilization technology as the traffic density increases.
While the Project addressed most of the above mentioned critical issues there is further need for an
in-Aepnth wvi,pur nffthe rnrtsp related tn thpe Csitni"OhiEftu Ad r-ngC the Prninit dsigpcnia ,tfr
TJDV _JoeAnne T narnaA
It becu-e obvi-ous during the first year of the P-oject that a thorough rewrew of the cost est;ma'tes
and budgets for the previous project (HIP) was necessary. In order not to compromise the quality of HEP it
uIMCM1me necesstary Wo r *1oca'e major aM-oS *4-l frlv Cum I-A; Cred;t. ALF-r.9. - 'hese  Jjo ectdwr
closely related and the flexible approach of the WB can be appreciated in this process.
-21 -



The technical assistance should be concentrated in on the job training principle with a systematic
app.ach Mud WMl;-fion of Ufl. pie. .omaJ . 1ACeptir. Lo.U e spewcia l sV-.ces, 'U1 CObuuLS M.LUI
always have nominated qualified counterparts that will retain the consultants' inputs in the Ministry. At the
5SilC ii~U1~1VIU~U Wil LU I ~ UUUL L j ,UV1U %IUIUILUL UI UI UiUu. UIJ5  r~VICUS.
same- ,:m     JV11"e L Iv Iit  -sd it'sutmost oL- provdid cor,<ur.-uit oft 'ue oc bLisufdmgul evcs
The 1dve:opment1 ouis acmpiUic               Lee, iivoivmg a wide range of uansfer of
knowledge, information and technology from qualified experts. In addition, the access to foreign currency
souces re-ains a bottleneck for equipment management and renewal. in order to address this problem in a
comprehensive way the technical assistance should be based on a balanced combination of the recipients'
needs and the cons-ultants' expertise. Tne approach should be practical and simple with the services
provided by consultants who have practical comprehensive experience in all aspects of small/medium- sized
constuction comnpany management. Sophisticated and complicated management practices should not be
introduced at his stage.
The same principle applies to all management systems that will be introduced in the future in the
Ministry (road and bridge management, quality assurance etc.)
Coordination of the Project activities was considered successful. However, for sustainability, the
Project coordinator should have had a local counterpart from the beginning of the Project with institutional
executive powers.
The counterpart funding agreements should be specified m view of Govermment's available
resources, possible imbalances of excessive inflation and unfavorable exchange rates.
The last and most important lesson that the Ministry learned was the importance of maintaining the
existing road infrastructure as a most economical means of road asset management.
Borrower's Performance
The Borrower has not identified any significant defects, obstacles or lack of performance during
the Project, as it was formulated in the Development Credit Agreement or in its Amendment.
The Borrower's performance may have been further improved by taling into account the
development needs of the local level road management in view of the decentralization policy of the
Government However, there was a defimite priority to develop and test the core management systems and
capabilities at the central level, leaving this subject to the next Projects.
The Borrower's performance might also have been improved by emphasizing the need in the Project
to review the organizational structure at the central and local level, applying appropriate office
management principles, management of personnel, leadership practices and improving various types of
communication skills under the different components.
In general, the project objectives, outputs and activities were well formulated and balanced the
Borrower's, stakeholders' and Lender's views during the preparation. This has attributed to the positive
general outcome of the Project.
- 22 -



Bank Performance
Tne world Bank responded promptly and adequately to the needs for reallocation of funds from tne
SHIP to the HIP. Although it was unfortunate for SHIP, it shows that the World Bank appropriately
recognized the importance and urgency of the amendment. Tne World Bank also showed commendable
flexibility in allowing an exemption for procurement of vitally important goods for the operations.
From November 1995, the World Bank has undertaken 10 supervision missions averaging nearly
twice a year. In most cases,, the subject of these missions has been all the on-gomg highway credits at the
time. The missions have been well timed and adequately staffed for the supervision of the Project. The
Ministry's views and capacity to tackle current problems during the visits was well understood and taken
into account with excellent understanding and cooperation on problematic issues.
The mutual understanding might have been further enhanced by allowing a bit more time for the
review and comments on the draft aide-memoire at the end of the mission so that all the involved parties
might be able to express their opinion on the text and especially the proposed agreements.
In aggregate, the World Bank's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory.
Final Conclusions
The Second Highway Improvement Project has been carried out according to the schedule and
within the budget The Project has achieved most of its major relevant objectives and may be expected to
achieve its satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings. Therefore, the overall
performance can be rated as satisfactory.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-23 -






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrik              Projected in last PSR-       |Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased effeciency of the  I The baseline for reduced VOC. 1
country's road network.      transport cost and travel time
was never established.
Tnshtituinnal canacities      C GOL made nrogress in       GOL made progress min
strengthened.                 intemalizing the importance of  intemalizing the importance of
mIrod minttennnrp to safep. riird  rmnd mintfPnnice to safeu, 2nrdd
the road assets.             the road assets.
Showed commitment to give     Showed commitment to give
priority to further develop   priority to further develop I
maintenance management        maintenance management
capabilities.                 capabilities.
Transport Planning Unit now   Transport Planning Unit now
plans budgets and program the  plans budgets and program the
manage and maintained of the  manage and maintained of the
highway network.              highway network.
Improved annual maintenance   Improved annual maintenance
program.                      program.
Transition to a market economy  The management and the     The management and the
in the iocai contracting industry.  empioyees of the company  empioyees of the company
bought 51% of the share in    bought 51% of the share in
December i997. SRBCC          December i997. SCKCL
obtained, under a joint venture  obtained, under a joint venture
scheme with an intemational   scheme with an intemational
contractor, a major contract  contractor ,a major contract
valued at US$13 million through  valued at US$13 million through
ICB procedure under           ICB procedure under
IDA-fimanced project.         IDA-financedproject.
- 24 -



OutPut Indicators:
Indicator/ir                    PrOjected tiWFbS;             |AChuI1I ateSt Estimate
I T* U-pAdIng o 55 k f oA^f U       Adedp 55m ofI TT-AA CC L- 1--f
sections of Roads No.13 and  Roads No.13 and No. 11 with   Roads No.13 and No. 11 with
I XT 11 -,1 TD D ^  I AOTDD-,.^ AOL                     I TDD-.^1AOL
(target reduced from 135 due
1  -. IWL--  -34r TT'LI" JILL,`, AV 35 due L Ill (U.     IlL~ LU 0
LU UV%,Uj I.UUUD foULr  ).
2. TTnpm Ainae nf 7n km nf?n-^ano  TPhoiliatfA 7AKm ofR13    Pp1h a1il4ati.A '70 m of RP3
No.13 included under Credit  between Namkading and         between Namkading and
1 2-T A (_f-. Am* Ai,n* mnwa'unaWiha.t                   I,ana,h.A+
dated 02129/96).
Rehabilitation of 36        11 bridges rehabilitated       11 bridges rehabilitated.
tmnanrarv hridses on R13-S III
3. C.M.L'sBudgitfnr            (     IA 's Rm4aot for mintmantvn.-p  r (nOT!'B iidct for m aintmnpam,P
m-Aaintenyance.             (95/96: US$1.4 million; 96/97:  (95/96: US$1.4million; 96/97:
~~~~~~~~~~~~tS!8mai_ntenance..... (9 8   S3.... U!8 mlon; 96 ....../97:US.
ITTQ't8 2 w11zi'wrI. 07102. TT2tA A ITTRU 2 ,riHllnv,. 07/02. TTQ'I A
million).                      million).
4. Aggregate length of roads   Aggregate length of roads    | Aggregate length of roads
I VgA5 - t ^VA-JVL I1jFLW s'LUg.AL. m-&VUI OL.AJ& UUjJLUV U"&.I WYV64  La Vr OF41, u'v..g.V. impt o UVL I
over five-year period.      five-year period: 1,0001ans. k   five-year period: 1,000kms.
5. Annual survey of road       Completed.                     Completed.
~xuuliuuujl
A A -.A -    .4t h,,f.r-         ta1P. h,A +aho1,AA
system                                                    I
7. Development of a road       Completed under ReP.           Completed under RMP.
m5nsaframent wvdrm
8. ARe sstrationsystem for     Established under ReP.         Established under RMP.
contractors for maintenance
works.
9. Training                    Fellowship for 3 bachelor's in  Fellowship for 3 bachelor's in
civil engineering and 2        civil engineering and 2
economists.                    economists.
L                   J.                             £                              J~~~~~~~~M



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
T Appraiial    ActuaU/Latit' . P,ercentage of
: ,,  , :.  ,                        , ~~~~~~~~~~~EstiMate  Estiate  - .Appralsal.
-4',,;r     Prqoject;Cost.By Component            IS$mIUion     US$ million    .
National Road Maintenance (Gov. contnbution to routine  10.74        3.22            30
nmaint.+XX) 
Savannakhet-Pakse Road (inc+.loc)                   16.74           11.23            67
Consulting Services and Training                      1.05           1.57           150
Road Rehabilitation                                  0.00           13.63
I otai t3aseline Cost                               28.53          29.65
Physical Contingencies                              2.83
Price Contingencies                                 2.30    _
Total Project Costs             33.66          29.65
|               Total Financing Required        |_-_33.66           29.65
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I -  U                       Procurement Method'.
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         .th2          N.B.F.     TotairC&st
1. Works                     17.73         0.00          7.00         3.68        28.41
_ _ _ _ _ _ _I 1  /.It)  I j U.UU)  I  I/.UV)  I  UI.UU)  I  tQ.1 /3)
2. Goods'                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
*_____________________ I(0.00)        1    (0.00)   1   (0.00)   1    (0.00)   1   (0.00)
13. Services             I    0.00     I    0.00         5.27         0.00         5.27
Consulting                   (0.00)       (0.00)        (5.27)       (0.00)       (5.27)
14. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
I                            (0.00)   1    (0.00)   1   (0.00)   1    (0.00)   J   (0.00)
15. Miscellaneous        1    0.00     1    0.00    1    0.00         0.00     I   0.00 
__________________     _ I   (°0.00)   I   (°.°°)       (0.0.00       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. M!sce-nl!aneios            0 .0         n nn          A AA         A AA         A nn
(0.00)  1    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
(17.73)       (0.00)       (12.27)       (0.00)      (30.00)
The civil works include road inprovement, spot improvement and routine maintenance.
-26 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.                       ~~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
r1. Works                      12.85     T    0.12          12.32         0.00         25.29
I                         I    (12.85)   I   (0-12) T      (12-32    I   (0n00)       (25-29)
2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00  1
(0_____________ ~ .00)  (0.0J0  (O.0J0)   (0.00)        ( V.00)
3. Services               |    0.00           0.00         2.92          0.00          2.92
Consulting                    (0.00)         (0.00)        L.(00) (0.00)              (2.92)
14. Miscellaneous         I     0.00     I    0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I______________________ I      (0.00)    I   (0.00)    I   (0.00)   1    (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous          |    0.00     |     0.00          1.66    |    0.00          1.66
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.66)        (0.00)        (1.66)
6. Miscellaneous          I    0.00     I     0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00OI
I                         I    (.°00)   I    (0.00)   I    (0.00)   [    (0.00)   1   (0.00)
I  Total                  I     12.85    1    0.12     I    16.90    1    0.00     1   29.87
(12.85)        (0.12)       (16.90)   [    (0.00)   J   (29.87)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fimanced by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
"'inciudes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
mLar..anLl  i.r.s jfJj. tL --A. flnJ  t.e-nt-A,L..   -- -J..  LUlSL  U,lL5  s!fUliitLll
Proiect Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                            I P-.ntaage of Apprasal 
Component,            Appraisal Estimate         VActuaLatest Estimate s                - ______
| ~ ~   ~   ~   - -1n     Ti D_l  I #~B       [ -A'   IBA.  I  PAT   C ........FC I..... BaInE.  I 1 rCuFI
NationalRoad         I   7.23  t  3.51   t  0.00  t   3.22               0.00     44.5 I 0.     0.0
Maintpnnne                               I                            I
Savannakhet-Pakse Road  15.90     0.84      0.00      10.81     0.43     0.00     68.0   51.2   0.0
(inc+loc)
Consulting Services and  1.05     0.00      0.00      1.57      0.00     0.00    149.5   0.0    0.0
Training                                                        0
Road Rehabilitation      0.00     0.00      0.00      12.96     0.68     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Physical Contingency     2.71     0.14      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Price contingency        2.18     0.11      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Tota irojet Cost         8.0   1  4.61      0.00     29.89      0.43     0.00    106.4   9.3    0.0



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Please refer to Section 4.3 for ERR estimates.
-2 -






Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
I ^lgaP nfliorPr .T ruPip     F     ~   No. of-Persons.d                        Per or-ance y   g..I
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Mnnth/Yfnr     Coun.t       |                            I   Pr    s   |  Ojeciv
|Identification/Preparation
05/20192                     ;   I L ulIp*JU L L  IA)IUILI
02/15/93                     3   Economist, Highway Engineer,
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/15/93                    3    Economist, Highway
Engineer, Road User
Charges
10/28/93                    1    Accounting/Financial Specialist
Supervision
03/28/94                     1   Highway Engineer                  HS            HS
06/27/94                     1   Highway Engineer                  HS            HS
11/21/94                     1   Hinhwav Engineer.                 HS            HS
02/11/95                     1   Transport Economist               HS       |     -HS
05/19/95                     2   Transport Economist, Highway      HS            HS
Engineer
11/4/95                      2   Transport Economist, Highway      HS            HS
Engineer
02/17/96                     2   Highway Engineer, Transport        S             S
Specialist
04/5/96                      2   Highway Engineer, Transport        S             S
Specialist
02/16/97                     1   Highway Engineer                   S             S
05/12/97.                    2   Highway Engineer, Transport        S             S
Specialist
12/16/97                     2   Highway Engineer, Civil            S             S
Engineer
03/28/98         1           i    l Highway Engmeer                 S             S
06/11/98                     1   Highway Engineer                   S             S
12/7/98                      2   Highway Engineer, pavement         S
specialist
05/31/99                     2   kHighway Engineer, pavement        S             S
Specialist
12/23/99                     2   Hignway Engineer, Civil            S             S
Engineer
V,T/J,UU                     3   nign tgway rngznur, ravimt nI
specialist/Highway Engineer,
|,nonno 1i.cAoor.gement Specialist
05/05/0 1                    3   'Transport Economist, Highway      S             S
Engineer, Financial Management
Specialist
-29 -



jStage of Project Cycle  -    l         No. of Persons anid Specialty     r     Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Econotists,_IFMS, etcl     Implementationn 'Development
|,Month/Year   Count           Specialty                  |  Progress      Objective
ICR
12/14/01-        |          3    Economist, Highway                 S             S
Engineer (2)
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle  1             ;  Actual/Latest Estimate,
.                       -~~~~~~~N'o. StaffweK- |m  -  U$ (000)|
Identification/Preparation  j           17.80         J             61.50
AppraisauNegotiation                    29.30                       106.0
Supervision                             58.65                      189.65
iCR                                      4.84                       29.78
Total                       1          110.59         |            386.93
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objecti+ves/Onuputs of Componets
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                      O H OSU*M O N O NA
I Sector Policies                    OH * SU O M O N O NA
O Physical                           O H * SU O M O N O NA
O Financiai                          OH OSUOM O N        * NA
O Institutional Development          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
I Environmental                     OH O SU @ M O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSU*M O N O NA
IOI Genuer                     O HfO SU OJ M(D YO N    iVA
D Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
Pri-rrvie esecir de-veloprneniC H *        SUJflAU O  lv \J IM YO NO I'VA
O Public sector management           O H  * SU O M O N 0 NA
YnL-  /fl1  t....or LI                    c 'rr   a,  -' .7 
LO Otheur (P.*-e apukJy.J                   di. \.O S vi O J M  ON j IVA
- 31 -






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Sattsfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatsfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS 0 U O HU
5a Nun1ervW1ion                                    n HS *s     n u    n Hi
0 Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
12 Preparation                                     OHS OS      OU     O HU
Z Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
iA impiementation agency perormance                O HS O S     O U   OU   u
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U   O HU
-32-






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Staff Appramsal Report No. 12526-LA: Lao People's Democratic Republic,
.~~IAflIU -1I-IW ID-:-.* kLA.MU I it I~4 OA
The W orsd B   ..an Suerwvisivo n Repos A, a
Tne World Bank, -bupervision Reporm>



Addif:tinal Anne- 8= Man TBRD 25206
LA025206.git
LA025206.PDF
- 34 -



IBRD 25206
| 1 by Th4 World                  bonh's staff 91CHINA04-
\ XCHINA                                            ,22,it                              S mternOi use 2fndThefSWffodB^hk ]| MYANM  CI
Aof r                                     d  fo theMYANMA
| x                      ~r ,2t-.Huse of The World Rork
rp  '.h -deo ;,o-' 1
ond  the  bou-drie  ufo'-  I ~ P OP E       of
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a         . n, i,- j, ......
fl~~~                                    ~    ~ 'V" L  * .
prt of T e World Ron Groo.'tCiI         ~     ~    (
.ory |dgr-nt  the  egol          REP.
I F   .1                1s       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stotus of any tentoiy or on/a
\g/\.~,,uf  .1)          '        endore-menD t or c-              '.fooce -o- . 
I MYANMAR.r"5          PHONGSALY          schu,doi.Lr9&V4
-;, NAMlHAN                          VIETNAM                         THAILAND
~~~~~N-11,  4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1CN.INA'
NoKnttho *#             VININ         -    \/~2:.).  KH^1OAE   Nv                  -j 
IOKEO            S,                            i:i                             AOI         SEA
0U094<~2z A 
| SECOND HIGHWAYl IMRVEN PROEC                                -i AN1
Roods      LUA                                                                --A
PSAABOpJRY Plb'ed      KHRor  A                                    'ONANGG
("K~~~~~~~~~~~
-16-        ' ' 'i 'yb Previcus  Poj dRol  °  Seleeed T'~ owns  g                               I ~ 6
THAILAND    f        Ntionol    S  Prvic H
BOLIKE{AOvSAI                        EI
|             _  UnpovedJNobonol  / Ncoboo Copitolsi Ron,                     i t 
f  nobhotn  "'00 0 ~~~~eNorRsaI ~~            VIET    '
|                )   otool RodNmes(\                                         P   ke 
I    fKeneIhoo~~~'   VIE~~lANE~~ PREVIcTE OF            K~~     5O   d u      
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                      ~                       I
Roads:                ~te.botpo                           \t,' 
- ProosdP-.,v5nd ±- Airports               II4SAVANNAKHET 
Previous Praject Road  0  Selected Towns                                     16.0;i.,SI .
I- s~~~~~~  -   ~~~ Paved National  91  Province Headquartersm             L   NE)/         
-  Unpaved National  *0  National Capitals    ~ooo
I'Paed Province  -  Province Boundaries                          __     SKN
Unpaved Province  -  ltrainlBudre                                     EO
() Notional Road Numbers
1278 Province Rood Numbers                                   CHAMPAA
KILOMETERS 9 5,0   190  lj0                                                             I
MAILI F      5        160
14-                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAMBODIA    i1~
icr                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~194-
SEFPTFMBER 1993









KIVIMUR M13
Report No.          23838
Tvnp-     ICR



