Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2
Report No. 12526-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DE1OCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND aIGIIWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 16, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restficted disibution an may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their offiW ddtes. its contents may ot othern be disclosed wItout Wouid Bank anthrizaton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of June 1993)
Currency Unit       =      Kip Nationale (KN)
US$1.00      =      KN720
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                =     3.2808 feet (ft)
I square meter (sq m)      =      10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
I kilometer (kIn)          =     0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km)    =  0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 -      Asian Dtvelopment Bank
ADT                 -      Average Daily Traffic
AIDAB               -      Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
CDRI                -      Communications Design and Research Institute
DBST                -      Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DCTPC               -      Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
ESCML               -      Enterprise for Survey ar,d Construction Materials Laboratory
HIP                 -      Highway Improvement Project
ICB                 -      international Competitive Bidding
IDA                 -      International Development Association
IERR                -      Internal Economic Rate of Return
IMF                 -      International Monetary Fund
[RI                 -      International Roughness Index
LCB                 -      Local Competitive Bidding
MCTPC               -      Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post
and Construction
MEPF                -      Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
NDF                 -      Nordic Development Fund
NTS                 -      National Transport Study
PDR                 -      People's Democratic Republic
PIP                 -      Public Investment Program
RBCS                -      Road and Bridge Construction Society
RMMD                -      Road Maintenance Management Division
SE                  -      State Enterprise
SIDA                -      Swedish International Development Authority
SPC                 -      State Planning Conmmittee
STP                 -      Southern Transport ProJect
TPU                 -      Transport Planning Unit
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - Septemnber 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Amount:              SDR 21.8 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Terns:               Standard IDA, with maturity of 40 years.
Project Objectives:  The proposed project would support a key subsector goal in the Government's
development strategy - that is, to increase the efficiency of the country's road
network through specific road improvements and through strengthening of
institutional capabilities to plan, manage and maintain the national highway
network. In addition, the project would support the development of local
contracting capacity through the commnercialization of selected state enterprises.
Project DescrDptio:    The  proposed  project would be  implemented  by  the  Ministry  of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC). The project
would finance: (a) a maintenance program including the execution of spot
improvements and periodic maintenance on about 2,000 km of the Borrower's
network; (b) upgrading of about 135 km of the Savannakhet-Pakse road to
bituminous standard, including rehabilitation of 36 bridg..s; (c) technical
assistance for project implementation, development of the local contracting
capability, transport planning and policy development; and (d) degree courses
and short-term training for MCTPC staff.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would assist Lao PDR in improving its internal and external
transport and comrnunications, as well as its capacity to plan and maintain the
country's road network. The proposed road improvement component would
support other development programs in the country and provide a reliable, all
weather transport link. The project's economic benefits would accrue mainly
from savings in vehicle operating costs related to road improvements.
Potential risks to project implementation relate to MCTPC's implementation
capacity and, for maintenance, to the inadequacies of the local budget and the
lack of local maintenance management staff. These risks would be minimized
through the provision under the project of both a consultant to help coordinate
project activities and technical assistance to help maintenance management and
implementation, as well as supervise upgrading and improvement activities.
Budget issues and revenue enhancement are being addressed at the macro level.
Inadequate maintenance of the road after completion is also a risk, which would
be addressed by designing the pavements under conservative assumptions to
reduce the need for a high level of maintenance, for a design life of 15 years.
Training would also be provided to develop local capabilities.
This document has a restricted distnution and may be used by recipiens only in the performance ofther
official duties. Its contents may not otihense be disclosed without Wozid Bank aufthiion.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:b                       Local       Foreign      Total
------- (US$ million) -------
Savannakhet-Pakse Road                 2.8          13.9         16.7
National Road Maintenance              3.2           7.5         10.7
Consulting Services and Training        .3            .8          1.1
Total Base Cost                 6.3          22.2         28.5
Physical Contingencies                  .6           2.2         2.9
Price Contingencies                     .5           1.8         2.3
Total Project Cost               7.4         26.2         33.7
Financing Plan:
Government                       1.3           2.4         3.7
IDA                              6.1         23.9         30.0
Total                            7.4         26.3         33.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                  1995  1996  1997   1998   1999  2000  2001
---------------- (US$ million) ------
Annual                    2.4   5.4   9.0   8.1    3.9       1.0   0.2
Cumulative                2.4   7.8  16.8  26.9  28.8   29.8   30.0
Poverty Categorv:        The project addresses poverty issues only indirectly through increased
employment opportunities and improved mobility.
Economic Rate of Return:    28% on the road improvement component.
Map:                     IBRD No. 25206
a Net of taxes . -d duties.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJUCT
Contents
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ........................................    I
A. Geographic and Economic Setting  ................................    I
B. The Transport Sector  ........................................                                     I
C. Transport Planning and Objectives . ....................    ..........
D. Investments  ..............................................    3
E. The Association's Role in the Sector ...............................    3
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR   ..........................................    5
A. Network  ................................................    5
B. Vehicle Fleet And Traffic  .....................................    5
C. The Road Transport Industry  ...................................    6
D. Highway Revenues and Expenditures  . .............................    6
E. Organization and Staffing   .....................................    7
F. Road Design and Construction   ..................................    8
G. Maintenance   ..........  ..................................                                       8
H. Road Safety ..............................  10
MI. THE PROJECT   ................................................   l 1
A. Project Formulation  .........................................    11
B. Project Objectives  ..........................................   11
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement ..................................   11
D. Project Description  .........................   12
E. Project Cost ..............................................   15
F. Financing   ....    ..........................................   18
G. Implementation ............................................   18
H. Procurement  .............................................   19
1. Disbursements .............................................   20
J. Auditing, Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision  .......................  21
K. Enviromnental Impact ........................................   22
IV. PROJECT JUTSTIFICATION  ............................  ...........  23
A. Benefits  ....................................   23
B. Economic Evaluation .........................................  23
C. Risks  ....................................    24
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......................  25
This report is based on the findings of a May/June 1993 appraisal mission to Lao PDR comprising
Messrs. Maurice Le Blanc (task manager), Peter Long (highway engineer) and Jan Johnson (transport
economist, consultant). Peer reviewers included Ms. F. Johansen (transport economist) and Mr. J. Tollie
(highway engineer). Production assistance by Bobbie Brown. It was cleared by Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
(Director, EAI) and Mr. Jeffrey Gutman (Chief, EAIIN).



- ii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Motor Vehicle Statistics, 1977-1989
Annex 2:   Maintenance Study - Summary of Maintenance Cost Estimates and Tax Based
Maintenance Financing
Annex 3:   Maintenance Study - Spot Improvement Program, 1994/94 - 1998/99
Annex 4:   Maintenance Study - Cost Estimate, Routine Maintenance of National Roads
Annex 5:   Technical Assistance to MCTPC and RMMD
Annex 6:   Technical Assistance to the Transportation Planning Unit
Annex 7:   Detailed Cost Table
Annex 8:   Implementation Schedule
Annex 9:    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 10:  Supervision Plan
Annex 11:  Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 12:  Cost and Benefit Streams
Annex 13:  Savannakhet-Pakse Road Improvement - Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 14:  Documents Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1.    Organizational Chart of MCTPC
Chart 2:    National Road Maintenance Organization with Road Maintenance Regions
MAP
IBRD No. 25206



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.1        The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), a landlocked country in Indochina, has
an area of about 237,000 km2, extending over 1,700 Iam north to south and from 100 to 400 kn east to
west. It is about two-and-one half times as large as Korea. Its population, however, is low at about 4.36
million, resulting in an extremely low population density of about 18 persons per km2. In addition to the
Mekong River, which flows through or borders the entire north-south length of the country, there are
about ten smaller rivers. Mountains cover about 80 percent of the area of Lao PDR, with heights ranging
from 200 m to 3,00) m. As a result of this rugged terrain and long distances between settlements,
internal and external conununications are difficult and costly.
1.2        The economy rema!ns small and undiversified, with a per capita income of about US$230,
making it one of the least developed countries in the world. The economy is dominated by agriculture
which accounts for about 60 percent of GDP and two commodities (timber and electricity), which provide
about 70 percent of export earnings. As such, the economy is vulnerable to climatic conditions and
external shocks beyond Government's control. This, coupled with a weak human resource base, presents
the country with a major challenge to development.
1.3       In spite of the difficulties facing it, the Government has undertaken a program of reforms
to liberalize and open its ecenomy, reflecting the recognition that controlled planning should give way
to a more flexible system of indicative planning and decentralized economic management. These changes
are beginning to yield positive results that include, (a) reform of State Enterprises (SE), (b) promotion
of the role of the private sector, and (c) civil service reform. Results of these reforms have also had a
positive impact on inflation which was reduced from 115 percent in 1985 to 10 percent in 1992.
1.4        Since 1989, Lao PDR has undertaken two Bank supported structural adjustment programs
aimed at stabilizing domestic and external finances, liberalizing the economy and redefining the role of
the state. Though performance has been mixed, progress has been made in moving towards a competitive
exchange rate, reducing effective protection, introducing a unified budget, elirminating most price controls
and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, and reducing inflation.
B. The Transport Sector
1.5        The country's rudimentary transport system comprises about 13,400 km of roads, 1,190 km
of navigable sections of the Mekong River including three important river ports, a number of smaller
provincial and municipal ports on the Mekong and several smaller rivers, a small gasoline supply pipeline
from Viet Nain, one international airport, and some 16 smaller airports and airfields. There are no
railroads in the country. The geographic coverage of the country by the road and river systems (30
kIm/l,000 sq km) is very low by international standards.
1.6        Road transport is the major mode of internal communication, carrying about 90 percent of
total freight ton-km and 85 percent of total passenger-km. River transport carries about 10 percent of both



-2 -
freight ton-kIn and passenger-km. Domestic airfreight is negligible while air transport carries 5 percent
of passenger-km. The highway network theoretically connects the main provincial centers, but the quality
of roads is extremely poor and many key road sections are impassable during the rainy season and only
with considerable difficulty in the dry season. Phongsali, Bokeo and Attapeu provinces still lack all
weather access and are isolated during the rainy season. Trade is carried on two main arteries: National
Roads (NR) 9 and 13, linking the main north-south axis Vientiane-Savannakhet to the port of D.znang in
Viet Nam; and the 15 km road link between Vientiane and the Mekong River crossing to Thailand.
1.7         From 1989 to 1992, road freight and passenger transport is estimated to have increased at
an annual average rate of 12 percent, based on official data on fuel imports. Growth in 1992 seerns to
have been higher than average due to the easing of controls on goods shipments; for some routes, traffic
has grown significantly, up to 25 percent over the previous year, as in the case of NR 1 and 13. The
major exception has been NR 9 which serves a lessened trade via the port of Danang. For other routes,
foreign trade with Thailand and transit traffic to China has been increasirg.
C. Transport Planning and Objectives
1.8        Transport planning and coordination are the responsibilities of the Ministry of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) which submits its proposals to the
Committee for Planning and Cooperation which oversees national planning and prepares the investment
budgets for line ministries. The MCTPC is responsible, among other things, for the development of
national and important provincial roads, river wharves and airports, and river, road and air transport.
Sector investments are planned in the context of overall five-year development plans prepared by the
Cominittee for Planning and Cooperation and annual development plans prepared by MCTPC.
1.9        The Government's transport development objectives, as expressed in the current Public
Investment Program, include restoration of vital sections of the transport network and provision of
improved transport services. Road development has been focused on: (a) facilitating trade flows through
completion of an alternate eastiwest link (NR 9) from Savannakhet to Viet Nam and the Port of Danang
(finished in 1988); (b) rehabilitating the north-south axis (NR 13) from Luang Prabang to Pakse and other
roads supporting agricultural production; (c) rehabilitating and constructing rural access roads in
agricultural areas; and (d) improving the road maintenance capability of central and provincial
maintenance organizations. Several ports on the Mekong Rive- were also improved to handle increased
cargo.
1.10       Because of the previous lack of a sector strategy and the recognized need to develop a
prioritized program of investments in transport, the Government, with the assistance of the Bank and the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), undertook a National Transport Study (NTS) to assist
it in: determining priority investment needs; defining a detailed investment, operation and maintenance
programn for 1991-95; formulating an outline development program for 1996-2000; formulating efficient
sector policies; and identifying projects for possible foreign financing. The Study, carried out by
consultants, was completed in 1990. The strategy outlined in the study recommended continued focus
on road development, particularly the restoration of NR 13, rehabilitation and construction of rural access
roads in agricultural areas, and improvement of maintenance capabilities. Following completion of the
report, the MCTPC team, which had been assembled to collect and review the study data, was formalized
into a transport planning unit (TPU) within the Ministry. Technical assistance under the Highway
Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA) is being provided to assist the TPU in its work program and will
be extended under the proposed project.



D. Investments
1.11      Estimated government transport expenditures during 1989-92 and the budget for 1993 are
shown in Table 1.1. The table does not include administration costs (estimated at about 5 percent of total
expenditures) or civil aviation. Also not included are rural roads constructed under Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry budgets which are estimated to run in the order of KN2-3 billion per year on
a network of approximately 1,000 mn.
Table 1.1: TRANSPORT EXPENDITVRES, 1989-1992 AND 1993 BUDGET
(KN million, current prices)
Actual Expenditures               Budget
1989      1990       1991      1992a      1993
Roads                         14,280    23,296    27,313    30,083       35857
Ports                          2,070      951        490         30        n/a
Total                         16,350    24,247    27,803      30,113     35857
% foreign aid & loansb           84.7%      86.5%     83.5%      83.6%      80.6%
% of total government expenditures   33.7%  36.6%     32.7%      38.4%      54.7%
Source: MCTPC
a. Nine months only January - September (financial year c!nhnged)
b. ADB, IDA, Swedish International Development Agency, UNDP, Germany, and Australia
E. The Association's Role in tl t Sector
1.12         The Association's general strategy in Lao PDR is to support the Government's effort to
complete the unfinished policy agenda, and address longer term development issues. IDA's investment
strategy is moving towards a more selective program focusing especially on infrastructure, primarily in
roads and in energy generation and transmission. Our assistance therefore focuses on: (a) promoting
economic growti and reducing poverty, (b) maintaining macroeconomic stability, (c) eliminating
infrastructure bottlenecks, (d) supporting human resource development, and (e) developing market-
oriented agriculture and managing natural resources. The proposed project would support objectives a,
c, d and e by including: upgrading of a critically important section of NR 13 -- serving external trade as
well as agriculture and facilitating the movement of agricultural products from surplus (southern) to
-'ficit (northern) areas; continuation of IDA's assistance to develop and expand MCTPC's road
maintenance capabilities; initiation of a program to assist the development of the local construction
industry; and training of MCTPC staff.
1.13         The proposed project would be the Association's third operation in the sector. The
Southern Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA, approved in October 1987) is assisting the Government
to: carry out a program of needed repairs and maintenance on about 270 lkn of MR 13 in Savannakhet,
Salavane and Champassak Provinces; strengthen the maintenance capability of the local authorities in all



- 4 -
three pr-itrccs; purchase equipment to surface the project road; and complete studies for future road
developtY.;iat. The project is about 90 percent complete and progressing satisfactorily. The quality of
the works is very good and traffic has increased substantially. Credit closing is expected at end-1994,
rather than erw-1991 as originally planned, due to the Government's initial unfamiliarity with IDA
procedures anu consequent delays in credit effectiveness and selection of consultants. The Highway
Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA, approved in March 1991) is assisting the Government with the
upgrading to double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) standard of the road between Namkading and
Savannakhet (265 kIn), supporting two spot improvement brigades to assist in keeping open key national
routes during as much of the year as possible, carrying out a road maintenance stud;, and providing
technical assistance and training for MCTPC staff. The project became effective on July 31, 1991 and
following a slow start has begun to be implemented satisfactorily.
1.14                The experience leamed from the two ongoing projects in the highway sub sector
is that the very limited availability of human capital places a great strain on project implementation and
that for sereral years to com.e, Government will depend on technical assistance for both implementation
and quality control. Also, of critical importance to project imnplementation is the timely availability of
local budget inputs without which projects will slip. The proposed project includes a substantial increase
in technical assistance designed to improve the effectiveness of the implementing agency. Local budgets
for routine maintenance, which is financed by the Borrower, will be reviewed annually with the
Association.



- 5 -
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.1          The country's road network, totalling some 13,400 km, comprises 3,385 km of national
roads, about 6,00C km of provincial roads and about 4,000 km of district roads. National roads are those
used by international and interprovincial transport and carry the bulk of the traffic; provincial roads
provide the main links to the national network within each province; and district roads facilitate inter-
village conmiunications, farm-to-market access, and natural resource development. Most provincial and
district roads are only tracks, without foundation or drainage facilities.
2.2          About half (some 1,600 km) of the national road network is classified as paved, with
gravel roads making up most of the balance. While the national and provincial roads are adequate in
terms of coverage, by providing connections to all important centers and border crossings, the condition
of most roads is very poor and in urgent need of improvement. A survey of a sample of national roads
carried out by road maintenance consultants in early 1993 indicated that cnly 10 perrmnt were in good
condition. The conditisn of the network reflects the effects of war, lack C f financial resources and lack
of road maintenance. Many roads in Lao PDR were constructed more than 50 years ago and were not
.designed for the heavy commercial vehicles now in use. A large number of key road sections are so
degraded that normal maintenarnce is no longer feasible. Even newer roads deteriorate quickly, and about
half of the roads completed since 1980 are now in only fp;r condition.
2.3          The spine of the road system is NR 13 (1,360 kim), linking Pak Mong in the north with
F'iong in the south and passing through the major urbanized areas of Luang Prabang, Vientiane,
S vannakhet and Pakse. Most of this important link is being restored to bituminous surfaced standard
',%th ADB, SIDA, and IDA financing and should be completed during the second half of this decade.
The sectionbetween Namkading and Savannakhet currently under constructionunder Credit 2218-LA had
reverted to an earth track which was impassable for motor vehicles during the rainy season, when
essential traffic is diverted to the river.
B. Vehicle Fleet And Traffic
2.4           Because of the scrappage/live vehicle discrepancies in MCTPC vehicle registration
statistics, trends in the vehicle fleet are difficult to ascertain. MCTPC carried out statistical adjustments
in 1991 which had the effe^t of lowering the count of light vehicles from 25,341 in 1990 to 21,265 in
1991 (Annex 1). Comparing 1992 with 1991 registrations, heavy vehicles have increased by 2 percent,
light vehicles by 5 percent and motorcycles by 8 percent during the year. Estimated on the basis of
6-month registrations: 1992 MCTPC statistics show about 118,300 vehicles registered, of which 22,300
were classified as ligi', 15,000 heavy and 81,000 motorcycles. A major portion of the vehicle fleet
continues to be registered in Vientiane Municipality. Within Vientiane, 25 percent of the heavy vehicles
and 58 percent of the light vehicles are registered as private, the remainder either classified as
government/state enterprise or diplomatic/foreign. Similarly, Vientiane accounts for the majority of
reported traffic accidents in the country, 63 percent in 1991.
2.5          The 1990 National Transportation Study (NTS) carried out traffic surveys on the main
road network and subsequent counts have been carried out in 1992 and 1993 by the Transport Planning
Unit (TPU) within the Ministry. Starting from a small base, traffic on several routes has grown rapidly
since 1990. Examples include NR 1 near Luang Namtha, from an average daily traffic (ADT) of 20



- 6 -
vehicles per day (vpd) to 180 vpd in three years, and NR 13 South where several sites indicate growth
in the order of 25 percent or more per year (para. 4.3).
2.6          Starting in January 1990, axle loads regulations specify a maximum of 9.1 tons for a
single axle and 18 tons for a tandem axle. Previously, axle loads were not limited. The maximum gross
weight for traffic on national roads is limited to 14 tons for 2-axle vehicles and 20.5 tons for 3-axle
vehicles. Additional rules are applied to urban areas and to vehicles with special loads. At present,
overloading is not a serious problem dne to the poor condition of the roads and bridges.
C. The Road Transport Industry
2.7           As the New Economic Mechanism has taken shape over recent years, so has the structure
of the road transport industry evolved. With free competition between the Government and private sector
for freight and passengers, rates and entry are largely market-driven. Four state transport enterprises as
well as the provincial enterprise fleets still exist, but many of their operable vehicles are now leased to
privatc operators. Estimates on major routes and statistics within MCTPC indicate that as much as 60
to 70 percent of the freight and 50 to 60 percent of passenger traffic is now carried by private operators.
Only in security areas and more remote portions of the country with difficult access do state enterprises
predominate. Since 1990, there has been a substantial transit trade shift from Viet Nam to Thailand, with
corresponding increases in truck traffic at border crossings along the Mekong. At the same time, the
mnodal share of riverine traffic appears to have declined with road transport gaining in share.
2.8          Vehicle utilization continues to be low, even for some of the more aggressive transport
companies. Commercial hauliers achieve only 20,000 to 30,000 km per year. Where road conditions
are poor, a 400 1 m trip may take three to four days one-way. Load factors are also low, in many cases
less than 50 percent because of the limitations of roads and bridges and poor backhaul opportunities for
largely one-way movements such as project cargoes, fuel and logs. Where roads are in good to fair
condition, rates are in the order of KN45-50 per ton-kin; on poorer roads, depending upon the season,
rates range between KN60 and 80 per ton-km.
D. Highway Revenues and Expenditures
2.9          Revenues from the highway sector are collected at the central, provincial and district
levels. Customs collects import duties and sales tax on vehicles, parts, and fuel at each port of entry.
Since 1992, an additional excise tax on fuel and lubricants has been collected by the Customs Department.
A tumnover tax is also applied oa sales of all goods. At the provincial level, registration, inspection, and
license fees are collected except for foreign resident, diplomatic and government vehicles which are
handled by the Central Government. Under the recentralization policy, provincial revenues from the
highway sector are to be turned over to the central government, however receipts often experience
lengthy delays.
2.10          Actual tax yields appear significantly lower than declared values or stipulated tax rates
would indicate for vehicles and fuel. Effective rates are low, particularly for import duties on light
vehicles and for turnover/sales (TCA) tax on all commnodities. This is often a result of under-assessment,
negotiated low declared values and other peculiarities in the customs collection system. It is anticipated
that reforms planned for 1993/94 will improve revenue collection; these include adoption of a harmonized
classification system and uniform assessments. The tax base however is narrowed by the large share of
tax-exempt imports and an apparently high rate of tax evasion.



- 7 -
2.11         Annual road maintenance requirements were developed under the Road Maintenance
Study carried out by consultants and are detailed in Annex 2. Currently, there are no national roads that
require periodic maintenance since the main network is currently under construction and will not begin
to be turned over to the RMMD before 1997. Routine maintenance, however, is required on an ongoing
basis and is estimated by corsultants to necessitate US$1.4 million in 1995/96, increasing to US$3.4 in
1997/98 as more of the network comes into service. During this period, the backlog spot improvement
programn required to keep open the priority network (about 2,000 kin) will be financed under the caredit
(Annex 3) and GOL will finance from its own resources the routine maintenance program. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that for its fiscal year 1995/96, it will provide US$1.4 million
equivalent, increasing to US$1.8 in 1996/97 and US$3.4 in 1997/98 from its own budget, and that annual
reviews will be carried out between the Association and the Government of its rehabilitation and
maintenance requirements for the subsequent year.
E. Organization and Staffing
2.12         Government organization in Lao PDR is in a state of rapid evolution. In theory, the
transport sector is organized into three administrative levels of national, provincial and district. In
practice there is limited capacity at the national level, very limited capacity at the provincial level and
none at the district level. Recently, because of the lack of performance at the provincial level, the
responsibility for the more important provincial roads was assigned to the national MCTPC. The status
and responsibilities of the provincial Departments of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
(DCTPC) under this new arrangement remains to be defined. MCTPC is therefore now responsible for
the administration, planning, construction and maintenance of both national and major provincial roads,
although some maintenance of these roads continues to be handled by the provincial DCTPCs. Both
MCTPC and provincial DCTPCs have state enterprises which execute road works, although these are also
in a state of uneven evolution towards privatization.
2.13         MCTPC has recently been reorganized with the number of vice ministers reduced from
five to two, and the role of departments modified. Under the new organization, there are five
departments for Comrnmunications, Transport, Post, Habitat and Aviation. In addition to these five line
departments, there are two staff departments, Organization and General Office. The latter contain
sections for budget planning, accounting, control, relations and general services as shown in Chart 1.
2.14          For highways, the Director of Communications is now in charge of four line Divisions;
Technical Services (studies and design), Road Construction, Road Maintenance and Waterways. In
addition, the Department has two staff sections, Administration and Budget Planning. The Transport
Planning Unit, established under the Southern Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA) reports to a Vice
Minister. Two parastatal institutes, the Enterprise ,or Survey and Construction Materials Laboratory
(ESCML) and the Comrnunications Design and Research Institute (CDRI) have been converted into
corporate units and as such report to the Minister. The future organization of the Institutes is under
review.
2.15          All units in MCTPC have a severe shortage of engineers, technical staff and managers.
The local Polytechnic Institute, established in 1984, graduated its first class of senior technicians in 1990,
and this will help to relieve some of the staffing constraints. Some training is provided at the Ministry's
Road Training Center, established with SIDA assistance. Under the Association's Highway Improvement
Project financing was provided for short courses for existing staff and four-year degree training in both
engineering and economics and this effort will be continued under the project.



-8 -
2.16         A Project Coordinating Unit was established in MCTPC under the ongoing Highway
Improvement Project to oversee all the activities relating to IDA financed highway projects including the
monitoring of all contracts, disbursements and to provide advice to the Vice Minister on project
implementation. The unit has facilitated communications within the country and with the Association on
project matters. The unit is currently staffed with one expatriate project engineer and these services will
be extended for 24 person months und,.r the project. The Government confirmed at negotiations that the
Project Coordinating Unit will be maintained for the duration of the project.
F. Road Design and Construction
2.17         Both the ESCML and the CDRI do survey and road design and ESCML does materials
testing as well. Both firms require supervision to ensure adequate quality. Internationally finam- d roads
are usually designed by foreign consultants, although some tasks may be subcontracted to the istitutes.
Road design criteria need to be standardized on a national scale, and SIDA funding is planned for this.
2.18         Currently, most road construction at the national level is carried out by State Enterprises
(SEs), which are under MCTPC but as noted above are in various stages of being privatized. Essentially
all of these enterprises are associated with foreign financed projects except for the one on NR 8, a
locally-financed road to the Viet Nam border. The numbers and condition of the equipment used in the
state enterprises vary widely. The use of many different brands of equipment, from a number of different
countries, creates problems in repairs and the stocking of spare parts. Exceptions to execution by
Enterprise are two ongoing projects under IDA and ADB where international contractors under ICB are
employed, and the AIDAB financed bridge over the Mekong which is being constructed by an Australian
contractor. With these exceptions, road construction in Lao PDR, including that financed by foreign
donors, has been carried out by the SEs with foreign consultant technical supervision. The work has
generally consisted of rehabilitating or reconstructing roads, following existing alignments. The system
used is a combination of force account and contract procedures, in that the Enterprise is paid unit prices
for work accomplished, but the unit prices are fixed by the Ministry. The Ministry also supplies fuel and
materials and leases equipment to the enterprises; the latter are responsible for paying labor wages.
Under the externally-funded projects, Enterprises have been supplied with new equipment, spare parts,
operating budgets, and expatriate technical assistance. The Road and Bridge Construction Society
(RBCS)/Enterprise system has been used to ex'cute urgently needed projects to re-establish road
communication in the country in the absence of any domestic or foreign construction industry. However,
MCTPC policy is now to convert the Enterprises into private finns.
G. Maintenance
2.19         Maintenance of the road system is currently inadequate, being constrained by (a) a vast
gap between budgetary needs and resources; (b) an embryo maintenance organization and lack of qualified
staff; (c) the deficiencies of the system of State Enterprises; and (d) rudimentary planning, execution and
control of works. These issues and the measures being taken to address them are discussed below.
2.20         Organization and Staffing. Maintenance of the national road network is the responsibility
of the Road Maintenanxe Management Division (RMMD) in MCTPC's Department of Communications
(Chart 2), while the actual works are carried out by national and provincial road enterprises, most of
which are state owned although some are in various stages of privatization. The RMMD was established
under the ongoing Highway Improvement Project (HIP) at the urging of IDA and SIDA who were
concerned that there would be no organization capable of managing the road maintenance requirements
of the network currently under construction with foreign financing. In addition to financing the execution



- 9 -
of a road maintenance study, the HIP included financing, as an interim measure, of two spot improvement
brigades to help keep open roads which would otherwise be impassable, particularly following the rainy
season. These two brigades would be used for training purposes with the intention that future road
maintenance works would be contracted out to privatized state enterprises.
2.21         RMMD is charged with setting standards for road maintenance, planning, budgeting,
contracting, and monitoring. However, the recently created Division is understaffed, much of its staff
is under-qualified, and it lacks sufficient resources to carry out its responsibilities. The Division is
evolving rapidly, albeit from an almost non-existent base. Technical assistance to the division is being
provided by Nordic Development Fund (NDF) under the HIP, and by SIDA. Currently this assistance
consists of a Maintenance Management Advisor and a Road Restoration Specialist. In order to increase
the monitoring effectiveness of the RMMD, and as proposed in the Maintenance Study, three Regional
Maintenance Engineers posts have been established for the North, Central and South regions (Chart 2),
and the responsibility for maintenance components of donor funded projects has recently been transferred
to RMMD. The objective of the reorganization is to increase the effectiveness with which the limited
resources are used, and to build up the capacity of the Division so that it will be in a position to take over
the maintenance of the national roads presently being improved with foreign assistance as these roads are
completed and turned over to RMMD over the next several years. The Division currently has a staff of
36, only 7 of whom are engineers, and 16 technicians who control and monitor the work of the contracted
enterprises. An increased number of experienced and well-trained personnel is needed at all levels of the
maintenance system. Management skills particularly need to be developed to handle the increased
maintenance needs of the expanded paved road network. Training in maintenance methods also needs
to be provided to ensure consistent quality in the works carried out. A start has been made with the TA
provided unider the HIP, and the SIDA supported Road Training Center, and enhancement of the
Division's capabilities is a principal objective of the proposed project.
2.22         State Enterprises. About 13 SEs and 10 provincial enterprises have contracts with the
RMMD. The system has not proved to be a success. In accordance with central planning principles, the
enterprises previously operated in specific geographical areas and were not competitive. They were
allocated contracts in their respective areas but unit prices were set by the Ministry. The unit prices were
not regularly adjusted and many were substantially below real costs. Revisions of the unit prices were
resisted because of the effect this would have on the national budget. The real cost of maintenance was
unknown, because the enterprises had no concept of cost accounting, and economic and efficiency
considerations were secondary. The enterprises lease their equipment from MCTPC but do not pay
MCTPC for idle time. Most is heavy earthmoving equipment left over from construction projects, often
of former Eastern Block origin, which is well past the end of its useful life, with loN availability, and
difficult to keep supplied with spare parts even where funds are available. Most should be scrapped.
Enterprises which have been the executing agencies for more recent foreign funded projects by ADB,
IDA, ard SIDA are better equipped with modern internationally procured material. TLe lack of available
and suitable equipment limits the capacity of the enterprises to respond to maintenance needs. The
Government has recognized the ineffectiveness of the SE system and has opted for a policy of
privatization, and this is now proceeding, at varying speeds.
2.23         Planning. Execution and Control. The concept of, and need for, reLurrent maintenance
has only recently been recognized by the Lao PDR Government, both by the MCTPC and the Ministry
of Finance (MOF). The Government began to distinguish between capital improvements and recurrent
maintenance in its budgets only a few years ago. Prior to that, works consisted essentially of emergency
works and rehabilitation to reopen roads which had become virtually impassable through neglect, and no
routine maintenance was carried out. The system consisted of ap inventory of the works required on each



- 10-
road, made just after the end of the rainy season. The resulting quantities of work were then multiplied
by MCTPC unit prices to give a total budget requirement, which was submitted to the then Ministry of
Economy, Planning and Finance. However, the funds actually allocated covered only a small fraction
of needs. The value of the contracts with the Enterprises were adjusted in consequence, but attainable
objectives and targets were not defined. With the assistance of the consultants carrying out the road
maintenance study, the RMMD has n'w defined two realistic programs and targets; the first is to plan
and execute a program of spot improvements on those roads which are not under improvement with
foreign aid to render them passable, at least for most of the year. The second is to carry out a program
of routine maintenance, with heavy emphasis on the maintenance of drainage. Both of these programs
are beginning to be implemented with financing under the HIP. Assistance is also being given to the
Enterprises to regroup and repair their equipment to carry out these tasks. However, it will take some
years to develop an awareness of the primary importance of maintenance. Control is being improved
with the establishment of the maintenance regions and the post of Regional Maintenance Engineer,
equipped with the means to visit maintenance works, assisted by the TA expert provided under the HIP.
This assistance will be expanded under the proposed project.
H. Road Safety
2.25         Road Safety. Road safety is an issue mainly in cities like Vientiane Municipality, Luang
Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassak, where the recent growth in motorized traffic accompanying
economic liberalization has led to increased accident, injury and fatality rates. The growing accident rate
has been traced to a number of factors including: the lack of familiarity with traffic conventions of either
motorcycle/bicycle drivers or pedestrians; conflicts between motor vehicles and slower-moving motorized
bicycles and tricycles and non-motorized traffic on major routes; vehicle overloading; lack of signs,
pavement and directional markings, and channelization, as well as the separation of motor and non-
motorized traffic; and mechanical problems of the aging fleet. To begin to address the problems, the
Government has established a Road Safety Committee with representatives from relevant government
ministries, Vientiane Prefecture and the provincial governments to work toward coordination of education
and training programs for drivers and school children. In addition, a road safety pilot project to provide
advisory services and selected remedial measures in Vientiane Municipality has been agreed with SIDA.
The project includes provisions for upgrading signing and road monitoring under the maintenance
component of the project.



- 11 -
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.1          The first real efforts to address road maintenance in Lao PDR were begun under the
Highway Improvement Project which resulted in the creation of the Road Maintenance Management
Division, provided expert technical assistance, and carried out a comprehensive road maintenance study.
Even the limited financial resources provided under that project have begun to yield substantial benefits
and MCTPC has committed itself to pushing ahead to further expand its efforts to tackle this critical
issue. Based on the results of the Maintenance Study, MCTPC has designed an expanded program to
address mainte -Ace of its national network, particularly as several foreign-assisted road projects are near
completion and will soon be handed over to the RMMD. MCTPC seeks IDA assistance to finance this
expanded maintenance effort, assist in the establishment of a local contracting industry, and support
human resource development in line with Government's objectives in the sector.
3.2          With the completion of the upgrading to gravel standard of the Savannakhet-Pakse Road
in 1991, the level of traffic utilizing this road increased dramatically. As a result of the improved quality
of the road surface, traffic speeds greatly increased, thereby creating a potentially serious accident
problem resulting from road dust. In addition, traffic levels are reaching the point where maintenance
costs of a gravel surfaced road are becoming prohibitive, thereby justifying its surfacing. The Government
inquired about the possibility of obtaining IDA assistance in financing the bituminous surfacing of the
road and of using the remaining funds under the Southemn Transport Project to purchase the necessary
equipment to outfit two State Enterprise brigades to carry out the work. With the purchase of the
necessary equipment, the remaining funds under the Southern Transport Project (STP) were sufficient to
carry out only a small amount of works through the main villages on the route. The Government.
therefore requested the Association to consider under the proposed project funding the completion of the
DBST on the remainder of the Savannakhet-Pakse route in addition to supporting the expansion of
MCTPC's road maintenance capability. Design of the new pavement was carried out by ESCML and
the consultants working on the upgrading under the STP. The proposed project was subsequently pre-
appraised in February 1993 and appraised in June 1993.
B. Project Objectives
3.3          The proposed project would support a key subsector goal in the Government's
development strategy -- that is, to increase the efficiency of the country's road network through specific
road improvements and through strengthening of institutional capabilities to plan, manage and maintain
the national highway network. In addition, the project would support the development of local
contracting capacity through the commercialization of selected state enterprises.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.4        The IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lao PDR presented to the Board in October
1992 highlighted the need to support sustainable growth, alleviate poverty and assist in development of
physical capital needed to expand production and exports. Specifically, in the transport sector, the
strategy focuses on continued assistance on development of the backbone of a national network,
rehabilitating feeder roads in major agricultural areas and development of a road maintenance capability
for the country.



- 12 -
3.5       IDA involvement in the project is justified for two major reasons. The development of
MCTPC, and particularly of its maintenance capability, is a long term process. This was begun under
the HIP, and the proposed prcject would represent a second phase of this development, for which long
term continuity is essential. The second reason is that since the key productive sectors of the Lao
economy, particularly agriculture, depend heavily on road transport for access to markets and production
inputs, improvement of the country's currently inadequate road network is central to any effort to
stimulate economic growth. In addition, the project is important in facilitating the flow of goods to the
poorer northern provinces and constitutes a logical follow-up to the two ongoing IDA financed highway
projects geared towards the improvement of NR 13 south of Vientiane and the development of MCTPC.
D. Project Description
3.6        The proposed project would provide the following over a five-year period:
(a)  continuing upgrading of the capacity for and execution of a maintenance program on the
road network through (i) the financing of a three-year slice of contracts for the execution
of a program of spot improvements and periodic maintenance; (ii) a three year program of
routine maintenance, to be financed by the local budget; and (iii) the provision of technical
assistance for tne organization and execution of the road maintenance program;
(b)  a training and development program for the commercialization of the SE that is being
created from the mergtr of state enterprises 13/2, 13/3 and 13/4 for the project purpose,
consisting of an initial two year period curing which the capacity of the new enterprise in
such areas as financial management and costing, and project equipment management would
be developed. The enterprise would be assisted by two experts recruited from an
international standard contractor;
(c)  improvement, including bituminous surfacing, over a five year period of about 135 km of
the Savannakhet-Pakse road, including the rehabilitation of 36 temporary bridges;
(d)  technical assistance to MCTPC; and
(e)  training of MCTPC staff.
Upgrading Maintenance Capacity
3.7        MCTPC currently has very limited capacity to maintain the country's badly deteriorated road
network, and will shortly be faced with the added responsibility of beginning routine maintenance on the
several hundred kilometers of roads presently being improved with foreign funJing, including IDA, ADB
and SIDA among the major donors. It will require many years to develop the capability of the
Maintenance Division (RMMD) to effectively carry out its responsibilities. The road maintenance study
carried out under the HIP developed recommendations on (a) a policy and strategy for efficient and cost-
effective road maintenance; and (b) the medium and long-term maintenance needs and financial
requirements. The Ministry therefore requires assistance on two fronts, first to carry out urgently iieeded
maintenance works, and second to continue the long-term process of establishing an effective road
maintenance capability which was started under the HIP. The proposed project would provide assistance
with both of these goals.



- 13 -
3.8        The maintenance works included in the project comprise the nationwide maintenance strategy
for all of the MCTPC roads, other than those which are the subject of major upgrading with foreign
funding. There are two programs, the first a five-year program of spot improvements on about 2,000
an, the objective of which is to carry out a minimum program of works to open up roads which have
become impassable (Annex 3), and the second is a program of routine maintenance, beginning with a
program on the limited length of roads where routine maintenance can be carried out, but rapidly
increasing as more and more roads are improved and transferred from Construction Division to RMMD
responsibility (Annex 4).
3.9        All of the maintenance works are small scale, remote and widely scattered. The five-year
spot improvement program, of which the project will finance a three year slice, consists of a large
number of small scale maintenance and improvement works over 2000 km of roads. Lot sizes would
vary in value from about US$10,000 to US$250,000. During the first year, contractors, including SEs
would be guided and receive technical advice and training from the three regional maintenance advisors,
using direct contracting. For the second and third year programs LCB procedures will be used, includiig
a new suite of standard procurement documents to be developed for RMMD under the project, comprising
Conditions of Contract (based on the IDA SBDs for Smaller Works), Specifications, Bill of Quantities,
Contract, and Acceptance of Works.
3.10       The implementation of the routine maintenance program, financed entirely by the local
budget, would initially continue to use the present RMMD direct contracting system with both State
Enterprises and private contractors. However, under the government's privatization policy, as capacity
develops, routine maintenance will also be contracted out by LCB where this is practicable.
3.11       A four-year initial phase of institutional development of the RMMD was begun under the
HIP with the provision of two experts for the Division, a road maintenance advisor and a road restoration
specialist. Under the proposed project, the RMMD will be assisted under a second phase by extending
the post of maintenance advisor at headquarters, and providing three regional advisors, one in each of
the recently established maintenance regions in the north, center and south, one of whom is currently the
road restoration specialist. Initially the project will fund the two incremental staff required under an
amendment to the existing technical assistance contract financed under HIP; thereafter a new bidding for
the four technical assistants will be carried out. The detailed objectives and tasks of the headquarters and
regional advisors are set out in the outline TORs in Annex 5.
Development of Construction Enterprise
3.12       A major objective of the project is to assist the conversion of the three force account
brigades (13/2, 13/3 and 13/4), located at Savannakhet, Salavane, and Champassak, and whose capacity
was strengthened under the STP, into a viable state enterprise that will be a candidate for privatization.
During negotiations, Goverwnent confirmed that it had already established this new Enterprise and would
maintain it until completion of the project. To assist this, the SE will receive technical assistance from
experts from an international civil works contractor in the skills of cost accounting, estimating and project
management. During the training period the SE will be awarded two contracts through direct contracting,
each of about US$2,500,000, covering roughly 25 km of NR 13 South. The SE will be assisted in
negotiating these contracts with MCTPC by the two experts, since enterprise personnel have only a
rudimentary knowledge at present of costing and project management. The experts will remain with the
SE for an additional twelve months after the training period and will continue to assist it with open
bidding for other works on both NR 13 South and other projects. It was agreed at negotiations that their
appointment would be a condition prior to credit effectiveness (para. 3.20).



- 14 -
Road Improvement
3.13       NR 13 is the sole road linking the southern part of Lao PDR with the central region around
Vientiane and the north. The road section from Savannakhet to Pakse, proposed for improvement under
the project was improved to all weather gravel standard under the Southern Transport Project. The
resulting increase in traffic has now made it important that an additional stage of improvement be
undertaken to upgrade the road to bituminous surfacing standard. The improvement includes reshaping
the gravel surface provided under the STP, adding a crushed stone or stabilized laterite base course and
Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST). The road formation would be 9 meters wide, with a
6-meter DBST roadway, and 1.5-meter single bituminous surface treatment shoulders on each side.
Details of the road design are given in the project file.
3.14       There are 36 bridges on the project road; all are one-lane, mostly old steel structures dating
from the colonial era or temporary Bailey-type bridges. The two largest bridges, which were damaged
by floods in 1991, are to be replaced with new structures under Australian aid funding. Technically it
is desirable to replace the remainder of the old and temporary bridges, and these works should be carried
out as soon as additional funding becomes available. Although the bridges were rehabilitated under the
STP, this work was carried out in 1990, and the heavy traffic now using the road requires that further
rehabilitation be undertaken under the project.
3.15       Initial construction would be carried out by the SE developed under the project, as part of
the training and development program of the enterprise. The remainder of the construction on the road
would consist of four lots, each of about US$2.5 million, which would be procured under LCB
procedures. SE 13, other SEs and emerging local construction firms, and any foreign contractors who
wished to do so would be permitted to bid. The lots are sized to be within the capability of several SEs
in the country which are being corporatized, alone or in joint venture, with the objective of progressively
developing the local industry by helping to provide a steady stream of work.
3.16       A consLlting firm would be employed to supervise construction. The Government has
requested that the consulting firm, which supervised the construction under the STP and oversaw the
preparation of the detailed engineering of the upgrading for the Savannakhet-Pakse Road, be engaged to
suipervise construction. These consultants were seiected using a shortlist process and financed under the
Southern Transport Project.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.17       Project Sumpport. The position of the incumbent project coordinator, financed under the HIP,
will terminate in 1996 and will be extended under the project for an additional 24 man-months to assist
the Project Management Unit in coordinating project implementation (para. 2.16). Consultants would
be appointed to assist the SEs (48 rran/months) as a condition of effectiveness, and would also be engaged
to supervise road reconstruction (96 man/months). In addition, the project would finance consultants to
carry out project account audits, feasibility studies and designs for the preparation of future projects in
the roads subsector.
3.18       Transport Planing. The Transport Planning Unit (TPU), established under the Highway
Iprovement Project, is currently being assisted by an expatriate advisor. Terms of Reference are
outlined in Annex 6. The TPU provides data, advice and training to MCTPC staff in support of the
establishment of its investment plan.  In addition, the unit carries out annual traffic counts, provides



- 15-
training and assistance to the provincial transport and communications departments and carries out
seminars and lectures in economics and planning to senior ministry personnel. Funding of the TPU is
currently assured under the Highway Improvement Project through September 1994. At that time, the
present contract of the expert would be extended for an additional 12 months under the Second Highway
Improvement Project to be followed by six person-months of expert advisors over an 18 month period.
This is intended to ensure that the systems, procedures and counterpart training introduced by consultants
at the Transport Planning Unit during the last several years in the course of implementing the National
Transport Study recommendations can be refined and consolidated.
3.19       Training. Lao PI)R faces a critical shortage of trained manpower in all areas. In the
transport sector, the rneed is nmost pressing for engineers and economists to formulate appropriate policies
and plan and implement investments. The proposed project would help in this regard by including funds
for both degree programs in neighboring countries and shorn-term training of current staff. About
US$150,000 would be provided for three bachelor's degrees in civil engineering and two in economics.
This is in line with costs for similar training under HIP. An amount of US$150,000 would also be
allocated under the project for short-term training and visits abroad by MCTPC staff, which would be
identified in the course of project implementation.
Status of Project Preparation
3.20       Tender documents for maintenance works to be fianced under the project will be prepared
by the consultants financed under the HIP. Designs for the upgrading of NR 13S from Savannakhet to
Pakse were prepared by ESCML, under the supervision of the consultants fir . ;ed under the Southern
Transport Project (Credit 1846-LA). These designs have been reviewed by the .oordinating consultant,
and have been modified to acceptable standards. The newly created SE (consolidated from the three
previous SEs that carried out works under Credit 1846-LA) has most of the equipment required to execute
the works, with the exception of crushers. Arrangements are being made to proceed with procuring
suitable crushers so the SE can start work at an early date. Contracts are planned to be negotiated with
the SE in late 1994. Because of the importance of having the technical assistance to the SE on board
early in the stage for planning and costing of works, it is important that the two technical assistants be
appointed no later than July 1, 1994. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that
it will appoint the two technical assistants to the SE as a condition prior to credit effectiveness (para.
3.12). The consultants who carried out the supervision of the upgrading to gravel standard are expected
to be reappointed to supervise the works, including rehabilitation of the bridges. The project coordinator
is presently contracted under Nordic Fund financing for the HIP. He would continue until the expiration
of this financing in September 1996, when arrangements would be made for continuing coordinating
assistance to be funded under the present proposed project. Except for the SE technical assistance, all
other project technical assistance would be engaged immediately after credit effectiveness.
E. Projec Cost
3.21       The project would have an estimated total cost of about KN25.7 billion (US$33.7 million
equivalent), including foreign exchange of US$25.7 million or about 76 percent of total costs. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent of the base costs have been included for all project components. Dollar
inflation rates of 2.8 percent during 1994-2001 have been included, and local inflation rates of 6 percent
in 1993 and 5 percent from 1994-2001, with compensation to account for changes in purchasing power
parity. Price contingencies are equal to about 12 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies.
Based on Lao PDR legislation, the import of goods and services under the project will be exempt from
taxes and duties. Estimated costs are given in detail in Annex 7 and are summarized in Table 3.1.



- 16 -
3.22       Cost estimates for the Savannakhet-Pakse Road, including rehabilitation of 36 bridges
average about US$95,000/km and are based on consulting engineers' estimates and current costs in Lao
PDR. Estimates of spot improvement costs are based on analyses by consultants, and records of the
MCTPC Maintenance Division. Technical assistance costs, totalling about US$5.06 million, cover 276
staff-months of foreign consultant services plus contract supervision. The unit cost of consultant services
is based on prevailing prices.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: COST ESTIMATES
Total Dollars ('000)          Total Kiys ('000.000)
Component                    Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
SAVANNAKHET-PAKSE ROAD
Civil Works
Roadway Works                            1,923     10,897    12,820     1,473      8,348     9,821
Rehabilitate 36 bridges                   375       2,125     2.500       287       1,628     1.915
Subtotal Works                           2,298     13,022    15.320     1,760      9,976    11,736
Construction Supervision                     218        406       624        167        311       478
TA to Enterprises                            279        518       797       214         397       611
Total Savannakhet-Pakse Road               2,795      13,945    16,741     2,141     10,683    12,825
NATIONAL ROAD MAINTENANCE
Civil Works
Spot Improvements                        1,326      3,978     5,304     1,016      3,047     4,063
Routine Maintenance                      1,096      2,035     3,130       839      1,559     2,398
Improve Regional Offices                   88         163      250         67        124       192
TA to RMMD                                   720       1,338     2,058      552       1,025     1,577
Total National Road Maintenance            3,229       7,513    10,742     2,474      5,755     8,229
CONSULTING SERVICES & TRAINING
Transport Planning Uni                       170        316       486        130        242       372
Coordinating Consultant                       81        150       230        62         115       176
Accounting/Auditing                           28          7        35        21           5        27
Fellowships                                    0        150        150        0         115       115
Short Courses, Seminars, Training             30        120       150        23          92       115
Total Consulting Services & Training         309        742      1,051      236         569       805
Total Base Cost                            6,333      22,200    28,534     4,852     17,007    21,859
Phys. Cont.                               633       2,220     2,853       485      1.701     2,186
Price Cont.                               481       1,814     2,295       368      1,390      1,758
Total Project Cost                         7,447      26,235    33,682     5,705     20,098    25,803
Source: Mission estimates, updated to February, 1994.



- 18-
F. Financing
3.23       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 21.8 (US$30 million equivalent) will cover 89 percent of
the total project cost, including 100 percent of foreign costs. The Government would provide about
US$3.7 million equivalent to cover the remaining local costs. Project financing arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Financing Source                                                Amount
Government of Lao PDR                                              3.7
IDA                                                               30.0
Total                                                             33.7
G. Implementation
3.24       The MCTPC would have overall responsibility for project implementation, through the Vice-
Minister responsible for communications, and the Director of the Connunications Department. The
upgrading of the maintenance capacity, including the development of maintenance management, execution
of the spot improvement and routine maintenance programs, and the training assistance to the small
enterprises carrying out these works would be the responsibility of the Director, RMMD, with the
assistance of the TA consultants provided under the project.
3.25       The Director of the Construction Division would be responsible for the improvement of the
Savannakhet-Pakse Road. Construction supervision would be handled by a Project Management Unit to
be established at Savannakhet, assisted by consulting engineers from the same firm that supervised
improvement of the roads under the STP. The Project Management Unit would be staffed by an MCTPC
engineer, a deputy, an accountant and support staff. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that the Project Management Unit be established and maintained within MCTPC until
the completion of the project, as a condition of effectiveness, with responsibilities and staffing acceptable
to the Association.
3.26       The Director of Communications would be responsible for the technical assistance to the
SE up to the point of selection and appointment; thereafter, the technical assistance would be responsible
to the Director of the Enterprise. Overall project administration would be assisted by a Project
Coordinator based in Vientiane, who would be responsible for coordinating, planning and monitoring
project activities, procuring project inputs and services, organizing project-supported training, and
carrying out project reporting and accounting. The project coordinating unit will be combined with that
already operating under the HIP.
3.27       Maintenance works under the project would begin in 1995 and would consist of a three-year
slice of a longer term program. Rehabilitation of the Savannakhet-Pakse Road will begin in November
1994 and take about five years to complete. The project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000. The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 8.



- 19 -
H. Procurement
Civil Works
3.28       The spot improvement program consists of a large number of scattered small scale
maintenance and improvement works over 2000 kim of roads. Lot sizes would vary in value from about
US$10,000 to US$250,000, which would not be of interest to international contractors. Procurement for
the first year would be part of the training program for contractors, during which direct contracting would
be used. The second and third year programs would use LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
aggregate total by direct contracting would be about US$2.0 million and by LCB US$4.4 million.
3.29       The routine maintenance program would similarly consist of a large number of small
contracts. This component will be financt 100% by the local budget, and the present government
system of direct contracting with SEs and private contractors will be used initially. Under the project,
and in line with the Government's privatization objectives, as MCTPC procedures evolve, procurement
will progressively switch to LCB.
3.30       On the Savannakhet-Pakse Road, two initial lots, each of about US$2.5 million value will
be directly contracted with the SE, as part of the enterprise development, privatization and training
program. The balance of the works, consisting of four lots each of about US$2.5 million, will be
procured by LCB, for which commercially independent SEs could compete. Lots of this size would not
be of interest to large international contractors not already installed in the vicinity, but any foreign
contractor who wished to do so could bid. Firms wishing to participate in the LCB bidding would be
pre-qualified. The aggregate value of the direct contracting would be about US$5.0 million, and by LCB
about US$13.2 million.
3.31       Standard LCB prequalification and bid documents, based on the Association's SBD for
Smaller Works, will be prepared for use on the project. For LCB procedures, assurances were provided
at negotiations that: (a) tender documents will be available in English as well as Lao; (b) foreign
contractors will be allowed to participate in the bidding and will be awarded the contract if successful;
and (c) foreign contractors will not be required to be registered in Lao PDR in order to participate in the
bidding.
3.32       Procurement documents will be prepared to conform to IDA's new policy of mandatory use
of the IDA's standard bidding documents. Draft contract documents for all direct contracting would be
subject to prior review by the Association. LCB contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 250,000
would be subject to prior review. Contracts below this threshold would be subject to post review in the
field, on a sample basis, by supervision missions. With these arrangements, over 90% of the value of
IDA financed contracts would be subject to prior review.
Consulting Sevices
3.33       Consulting services would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Experts from an interrational firm of contractors would provide assistance to the SE. For
construction supervision of the Savannakhet Road, the Government has requested that the services of the
same international firm which supervised the initial upgrading and controlled the design of the presently
planned improvement be retained. International levei consultants will provide the services of project
coordination and assistance to the TPU under extensions to existing contracts. Assistance to the RMMD



- 20 -
through two technical assistant positions is presently provided under NDF finaricing under the HIP. Two
additional expeits will be recruited to serve out the remainder of the time left under the existing contract
for maintenance advisors, after which a new bidding process will be initiated. Specialized accounting and
auditing services will be provided by a local consulting firm.
3.34       Table 3.3 below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ thousand equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                       LCB        Other          NIFP        Total
Civil Works
Road and bndge improvement        13,257      5,000b                    18,257
(13,257)    (5,000)                  (18,257)
Spot Improvements                 4,475       2,000b                     6,475
(4,475)    (2,000)                    (6,475)
Routine Maintenance                                          3,682       3,682
(0)         (0)
Consulting services and training                 5,268c                     5,268
(5,268)                   (5,268)
TOTAL                            17,732       12,268         3,682      33,682
(17,732)    (12,268)          (0)     (30,000)
Note: Figures in pareptheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
a.   Not IDA-Financed.
b.   Direct contracting and training program.
c.   Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
I. Disbursements
3.35       Disbursement of the proposed credit will be made on the following basis:
(a)  100 percent of the total cost of civil works for Savannakhet-Pakse, and spot improvements;
and
(b)  100 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance, training and consultants' services.
3.36       Full documentation would be required to support withdrawal applications for all consultant
services; and for all civil works contracts above US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements for civil works
contracts less than US$50,000 would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The



- 21 -
documentation for SOE expenditures would be prepared under the supervision of the Project Coordinator,
retained by MCTPC, and made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
3.37       To facilitate disbursements under the project, a Special Account with an authorized
allocation of US$1 million would be established in Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao. The
account would be used for expenditures of less than US$100,000 equivalent, both foreign and local, under
all categories. All other expenditures above US$100,000 would be submitted directly to IDA for payment.
Applications for replenishment would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly) or when the amounts
withdrawn equal 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.38       A schedule of estimated disbursements under the proposed credit and the standard
disbursement profiles for projects in Lao PDR and are shown in Annex 9. Disbursement is expected to
be marginally faster than the profile for previous projects in the Lao PDR because the maintenance
component is limited to a three year time slice and in spite of a completion time for the upgrading of the
Savannakhet-Pakse Road 50% greater than normally required for such works. Also, MCTPC has gained
considerable experience under the two ongoing projects and the project includes substantial technical
assistance to assist in project implementation. The closing date of the credit will be June 30, 2001.
J. Auditing, Reporting, MonitoriDg and Supervision
3.39       The MCTPC will establish and maintain separate accounts for all expenditures under the
project. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govermnent that these accounts will be
audited by the Enterprise Accounting Department of MOF in the first year to determine the acceptability
of audits performed. If not acceptable, Government agreed to hire independent local outside auditors with
recognized international auditing capabilities with financing from the Credit. These audits will cover (a)
project accounts, and (b) the Special Account, and (c) an opinion covering the Statements of Expenditures
as to whether the disbursements made under the SOEs were used for the purpose for which they were
intended under the project. These audits will be furnished to the Association within four months of the
end of each government fiscal year.
3.40       The MCTPC will submit quarterly progress reports on project implementation. The
MCTPC will also submit part two of a Project Completion Report to the Association within six months
of the credit closing date. These arrangements were confirmed with MCTPC during negotiations.
3.41       Project supervision by the Association will be coordinated through a Supervision Plan shown
in Annex 10. A project launching mission will be scheduled immediately following Board approval of
the credit. IDA supervision would require a total of about 15 staff-weeks per year during the early years
of the project falling to 10 staff-weeks a year later, for a total of 90 staff-weeks during the life of the
project, with more frequent supervision missions during the early years of implementation. Supervision
would be carried out mainly by a transport engineer, assisted on occasion by a training specialist and a
transport economist. Details of project monitoring indicators in Annex 11.
3.42       Project progress will be monitored using a Computerized Project Management system by
the coordinating consultant, which will provide outputs on the financial and physical status of each project
component. The four main areas of development under the project will be monitored on a continuous
basis by the coordinating consultant, reviewed with the government by supervision missions, and
reviewed in detail annually with the government during the supervision mission at which the rehabilitation
and maintenance programs achievements and needs for following year are discussed.



- 22 -
3.43       Regarding upgrading of the maintenance capacity, monitoring will follow the physical and
financial progress of the programs of spot improvements, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance.
Progress of the TA to RMMD will be monitored compared with the objftives of the assignments, and
the implementation of the recommendations of the maintenance study. The development of the SE
towards becoming a viable contractor will be monitored by comparing the evolving costs to the SE of
executing major pay items of road works, with prices of other contractors working for MCTPC. A
formal review of the SEs progress will be carried out one year after the beginning of works. Progress
of the improvement of NR 13 South will be monitored on the basis of physical quantities of works
executed and their financial value. Training will bt monitored based on the progress of implementation
compared with the agreed program
K. Environmental Impact
3.44       The project is expected to have no negative environmental or ecological impact. No major
changes will be made in the alignment of the Savannakhet-Pakse Road. The road is in an area where the
prinary forest has already been cut and the secondary growth is largely scrub and brush. Improvement
of drainage along the road will improve environmental conditions. 'li-le bituminous surfacing on the road
will reduce the dust nuisance during the dry season from the present gravel and earth surface. Measures
will be taken to avoid siltation resulting from run-off from construction sites, and drainage will be
designed to prevent downstream erosion. During negotiations, agreement was reached that environmental
guidelines for road projects recently approved by Government would be approved by Prime Ministerial
Decree, as a condition prior to effectiveness. In additior., it was agreed that the Government would take
all necessary action during project implementation, to insure that all road maintenance and periodic spot
improvement works under the Road Program are carried out in conformity with the Environmental
Guidelines. Higher speeds and increased traffic can, however, be expected to result in an increase in
traffic accidents. While no specific actions are proposed to address the potential increase in accidents,
the Government is aware of the problem and is beginning to address it in Vientiane Prefecture (para.
2.25). No persons will be resettled or displaced involuntarily under the project.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. B nefits
4.1        Rehabilitation under the project of the Savannakhet-Pakse Road will facilitate flows of both
export-import traffic and the important agricultural traffic moving north from the country's southern
provinces. The proposed road upgrading will also support other development programs in the country,
enable lower-cost distribution of goods and movement of people within the central region and between
the northern and southem parts of Lao PDR and, more importantly, provide a reliable year-round, all-
weather link for the movement of goods and passengers. The project road would therefore assist the
Government of Lao PDR to develop its currently inadequate transport infrastructure and to meet some
of its objectives regarding regional development, integration of the geographically large but sparsely
populated country, and promotion of exports.
4.2        The maintenance improvement component is also expected to lowcr the cost of transporting
goods and passengers, besides developing 'ocal maintenance capabilities and strengthening MCTPC's
maintenance planning and management abilities.
B. Economic Evaluation
4.3        Present and Future Traffic. Present traffic levels on the project road have increased
dramatically since the improvement to good gravel standard under the Southern Transport Project. NTS
traffic counts in 1990 indicated an ADT of 118; by 1992, ADT had climbed to over 230.  Based on
traffic counts catred out by TPU along NR 13 South, improvement programs have helped stimulate
increases in traffic by 25 percent per annum since NTS studies in 1990. TPU forecasts ADT's by 1995
to be in the order of 300 to 500 vehicles per day. After the "improvement effect" on generated traffic
tapers off, medium to longer term growth could be in the order 7-10 percent per year. For the purpose
of the economic analysis, traffic has been forecast to grow at 7 percent per year, the rate applied by the
NTS. This is considered conservative in view of indications that the Lao economy will open further and
that liberalization of trade, commerce and foreign investmnent will have a significant impact on traffic
growth. Surplus agricultural production in the southern provinces and upgrading of the network
connections feeding NR 13 could also significantly increase demand during the latter part of the decade.
4.4        Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis on Road Improvement Component.  The
improvement plan includes civil works with base course on a 9-meter wide platform with six-meter wide
pavement on approximately 135 Ikn together with supervision, bridge rehabilitation, and technical
assistance to the State Enterprise, for a cost of US$18.3 million. Work is assumed to commence in the
latter part of 1994 and be substantially completed in 1999. After seven years, an application of prime
coat and single surface treatment would also be required. On this basis, vehicle operating cost savings
for the base case of 7 percent annual traffic growth (NTS forecast) would yield an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 28 percent (Annexes 12 and 13). This case also assumes that without paving, the road
condition would progressively deteriorate to that of a bad gravel road (IRI 18 from a present IRI 8). If
higher growth rates in the order of those forecast by TPU are applied, an ERR of 34 percent is obtained.
A similar ERR, 30 percent, is obtained if generated traffic is included in the base case, that is counting
half the benefits for an additional increment of 25 percent more traffic, the latter based on observed
"improvement effects" from other projects on NR 13.
4.5        Sensitivity tests indicate that a 15 percent increase in costs, 15 percent decrease in benefits
and exclusion of any effects of road deterioration without the project would reduce the base case ERR



- 24 -
from 28 percent to 13 percent. If a lower traffic growth rate of 6 percent is assumed, the ERR drops
to 25 percent from 28 percent. When a traffic growth of 3 percent is tested, the ERR drops to 20
percent. The ERR's for the various scenarios are sunmmarized in Annex 13.
4.6        Spot Improvement Component. In order to keep roads open to traffic and improve very
bad road conditions which inhibit or make travel extremely difficult and costly, the spot improvement
program would undertake repairs to drainage, subgrade and formation. Potential vehicle operating cost
savings were compared against average spot improvement costs per kilometer to provide an indication
of traffic levels required to justify the improvements. Assuming an improvement in operating costs from
very bad gravel (IRI 18) to good gravel (IRI 8) with 20 percent benefit capture in the initial year, 100
percent the following year and finally, 50 percent the next year, ERR's range between 15 percent at 30
ADT to 95 percent at 50 ADT for a repair cost of US$3180/km. At US$5100/k.n an ADT of 45 is
required to yield a 9 percent return; at a threshold of 50 ADT for a typical repair cost of US$3180/km.
C. Risks
4.7        Potential risks to project implementation relate to MCTPC's implementation capacity and,
for maintenance, the lack of local maintenance management staff. These risks would be minimized
through the provision under the project of both a consultant to help coordinate project activities and
technical assistance to help supervise upgrading and improvement activities, technical assistance to the
RMMD and the three Maintenance Regions and technical assistance to the SE that will be carrying out
the road improvement component. Training will also be provided to develop local capabilities. These
risks would further be mitigated by the appointment of consultants for supervision of project construction
from the firm that designed the project road. Inadequate maintenance of the road after completion is also
a risk, which would be addressed by designing the pavements under conservative assumptions to reduce
the need for a high level of maintenance, for a design life of 15 years. Resurfacing of the road would
be required during this period. If traffic greatly exceeds the estimate used for the pavement design, then
a strengthening overlay will be applied as appropriate, following monitoring of the surface condition.



- 25 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the following items:
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  appointment of the two technical assistants to the SE, as a condition prior to credit
effectiveness (para. 3.20);
(b)  establishment of a Project Management Unit as a condition of effectiveness, with
responsibilities and staffing acceptable to the Asseciation (para. 3.25);
(c)  that environmental guidelines for road projects in Lao PDR will be approved by
Prime Ministerial Decree (para. 3.44).
Agreements with the Govermnent
(d)  confirmation that for its fiscal year 1995/96, Government will provide US$1.4
million equivalent, increasing to US$1.8 million in 1996/97 and US$3.4 million in
1997/98 from its own budget and that a line item to this effect will be included in
MCTPC's budget (para 2.11).
(e)  agreement to annual reviews, no later than October 31 in each of its fiscal years, of
the Government's Road Maintenance Program for subsequent years (para. 2.1 1);
(f)  reconfirmation that the Project Coordinating Unit will be maintained for the duration
of the project (para. 2.16);
(g)  agreement to maintain the SE until completion of the project (para. 3.12);
(h)  for LCB procedures, that: (a) tender documents will be available in English as well
as Lao; (b) foreign contractors will be allowed to participate in the bidding and will
be awarded the contract if successful; and (c) foreign contractors will not be required
to be registered in Lao PDR in order to participate in the bidding (para. 3.31);
(i)  submission of annual audits of project accounts, and the special account by the
Enterprise Accounting Department of MOF in accordance with international auditing
standards, to be reviewed at the end of the first year. If this is not acceptable to
IDA, a firm of local auditors with international accounting standards would be
retained (para. 3.39); and
(j)  the preparation and submission of Quarterly Progress Reports and Part II of a Project
Completion Report (para. 3.40).
5.2        Subject to the above agreements and condition, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 21.8 million (US$30 million equivalent) on standard terms, with a maturity of 40 years,
to the Lao People's Democratic Republic.



- 26 -
Annex I
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Motor Vehide Statistics, 1977-1989
A. Motor Vehicles
Year        Light Vehicles  Heavy Vehicles   Motorcycles      TotaW
1977            10,112           1,791          9,271        21,174
1980            11,308           2,889         11,096        25,293
1985            15,655           3,815        21,396         40,866
1986            16,844           4,027        24,233         45,104
1987            17,798           4,353        27,858         50,009
1988            19,008           4,743         32,074        55,825
1989           23,864            9,361        51,790         85,015
1990           25,340           10,291        58,938         94,569
1991a          21,265           14,702        74,823         110,790
1992b          22,282           14,984         80,995        118,261
B. Fleet Composition (percent)
1977             48%               8%           44%           100%
1985             38%               9%           52%           100%
1989             28%              11%           61%           100%
1992              19%             13%           68%           100%
C. Annual Growth (percent)
1977-1989        7.4%            14.8%          15.4%          12.3%
1980-1985        6.7%            5.7%           14.0%          10.1%
1985-1989       11.1%           25.2%           24.7%          20.1%
1991-1992        4.8%             1.9%           8.2%           6.7%
Source: Vehicle Control, Transport Department, MCTPC
a. Statistics adjusted for scrapped vehicles.
b. Estimate for year based on 6 months data.



- 27 -
Annex 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Maintenance Study
Sununary of Maintenance Cost Estimates
1994/   199SI   19961   19971   19981   1999/   200.0    2001/   2002/
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001       2002     2003
Cost of        National Roads
Maintenace
(million USD   Routine Maintenance       0.32    0.45    0.66     1.88    2.24    2.43      2.59     2.64     2.64
per year)      Periodic Maintenance      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17      1.98    0.89      1.29     6.46
Sum National Roads        0.3    0.5      0.7      1.9     2.4     4.4      3.5      3.9      9.1
Provincial Roads
Routine Maintenance      0.47    0.68    0.88      1.09    1.29     1.49    1.70     1.90     2.11
Periodic Maintenance     0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.92       1.08     1.25     1.41
Sum Provhncial Roads     0.6    0.8       1.0     1.2      1.4     2A       2.8      3.2      3.5
Total Roudne Maintenance   0.87    1.24    1.69    3.26    3.88    4.31     4.72     5.00     5.22
Costs
Total Periodic Maintenance   0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.32    3.19    2.17    2.79     8.67
Costs
(including 10%
administration)
Total Mainten       Costs    1.0    1.4   1.8    .3A       4.2      7.5     6.9      7.8      13.9



- 28 -
Annex 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMEN PROJECT
Maintenance Study
Spot Improvement Program, 1994/95-1998/99
Pt             _       _        Ine#                                                                      (us _
_ -_                                                              M1                            -    271n
AgES    0  SUSMIISIESW          1~~~~~~= Po"      0   374     PA&          818                  71s         loomS
mSin   _m                1#3mi     E       ai    .    _aO           So           3        7          100.10.
0  _   . ^_a h                     a                            ad           F4*                  714
1dE    7_V__ PIWiMw          t             12 ft-w          1   18.   bf In                       4        782         126la
Rl8   12    1t_~1     4ftI                 83 Om6           7            FE          FA     7                          4tW
P_tdd   Is   #      113                    74 a                          FSRd         so                  7,04         15416
1l   2    hI1*Mld_.g            t4 113a                 S            Wbm          SEd         7       7.80        t2M
NP1       (A)                              et gem           4                         so          0       88           0S1*
_lMm _got                                           t              Eud       so          0        on
tIdES    1  PIinaum-mm~~~~~~~   800 Raw""h        6                                    to      2A           07.*
Ndmd    is    1 _                          *0 ffIVgmd       4            Ra                       11      0.84         73"4
t_a   SA                                   us- tgem                                               Is        m R         3."
se                                us 11 tte - lKt_   t4 ENO                              1 t'ts               404
t    5    ft4 miqh.&hmR 14 lug                                       R                        13S t4              413.50
Nl    1t         1S___ aI                           E       S11 FM                    aS          1       &S" 1a t731
ised 1    tSd.8010WMWAeI.              a EN                          my$g  4         __       is      4.666         01
0.t4   1W" baftEomw               151 gg            6           ad           aS          tO      6,417        "UV
r_ded    115    1.8a.6 7  too                               6                                     17      1.400 l4
tldmi          t S*j.Or t_C_                   E_____                                     -       -     -               841S1t
Id              ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                 -P6     -       -           8710.17
ou0ln Wwk Piog
in                                                                            EEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0' ______S_,______,_,__S,
I    __________________
'A  _____ ___  __ _____
a  __ ____   ____- ____
2  I^.  -__ __ ___ __ __   ___ _-__ _     _   __
I-.  _____.___



LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - MAINTENANCE STUDY
Cost Estimate, Routine Maintenance of National Roads
tosd  senRoad Type Lfrt*h    PlimnnIg  Pbn-ning-  TRotdn ln Unit Rat    Star yeai  199415 -lowk I9  199 1999 2ii 2001 2_O
to                            ~~~~~~(pbnning)       Wkh       Traffc    Gomwth   Mwbint Typo Facow                standard
FacW                                    naYnt
gFPakMog Lmuang Rabing                KM -e _jR _ =                7               T-27    11R2                            R-19-                 _-.,-__ i_QTbtT
3p (M   LaYagve*bng ___ouho               Paved     _                                                 3        1i^ t9 - "  005  09 - -o Rilm                        -5-,
h34~~~~~~~~~~~a         V       eg                                                              h _-13 X7 27eW   1.1  r  I            --0  -od   O Fo-4 oo o              o-4 0 
PnKhan -n M.                            ' Fa            47   t F  17 _-I    T&2 i 7T0 bd- l0 0a-- 
;3     M, tyavsiaek  - Vhnane kan  ave _                                                                        ZEs1 171   01_W-b     -00   i Oi Oo _0 03  Ot-  7                 0 aOt-&
" _ Yii~~~~~oue km 12  -  PakSn Pe di                                                                  16Y1R7 00W9t7NfiC Him 
=         %_;         Pak ---Pain g P                               nw -==N4   7    1 0 Pavd                                       -601 17 di  R_  _ 0 l  -0 ool -1    ofW6-7
Vinlai km 12t - Faba                   Fi_wF                                13   _% fl-vez                                T                           0-f  a i  --- -61sT  _ -o; 00 i  o0 1 i
PakSangNm -             Vbgh__0Paved   ----                         7   %   isve                      -Tw  ---;                       j99 _5 = _-  =o 0A 04 0-   0 di41
is   L uangNm                               iha-                                                     Naeu _1 fo 107 -W d es 99 _ _ T_ -O M O
1  7)bdown - mum* Km o                     Pa8%Oved                    7        28R _%                  __ _  Ot  7      W                                di-  01    098 -017 -&IDgT0
Mr 3 (S)uangNxa   lnnst.mo                 Paved           1                             - t  Paved      R      R                                  _I OR  
is    3       B Nah-                      P2{1MGave d  6 4t           _19 9   __w               ;iww          'Li        5%                                               0-1 SFi - Ct,r    
I t onua ~~~~~~~khwa                                                                                  P101   fTPe                           C6i1t  7  7537   7007 07Fo
_uro   M Rliouai           G        iav"i 71 --- 8   -- - __ W   84fK                    199,d      _ ___T_.                                             00   003  003  00  e
LuFanNa            B  Vhtarnblo r     e Paved           71 3 d                                                                                               s 7 -_-  _M     _0-  __ a _T
3 71men  sr Na.u                         Grow       b      ode 8t7_% Gravedl                                - 10    7    4   Eim           _         0     _0    _ _0   __1f _Uf  _0_ _
M Khouae - Ta                         URnd  bo-rdr_i                             P                         S39<a  99t _m  _                        _           _Kw-    o Oi  
Po                                                                                                                    35Saneisol  Z4  97       77                 00ve 00 t70  080t19   
6  39 7Sing - - Sawbud                                                          __K         fNvg       _V5    Pa            11e6M  _I    _0(   _ 6-  -__  _g ---8-r               -5--0
(A    Sakmno-Atoe _-  _8 Pariav  O        ri             199e _       7                     d____            0  004 i   0041
(-A)*.@R8lbOD                                                                   ;%j  _- a__        _ _ ---   ----
Pkekn8Pkon       g d     1X     mPved  0B19=0 33757N
Sw0mk12Tagn = tave - V12mERe           Paved            ~t3 85      9  ---W    07_  7ayd                         - W                00                                               0 0 6m
PhouK hoei Va PhimHan         g        Gavefd                                                       ---            _18  iPavd 3 9Q19 02
kmnia,i 59 km   133t-                745_Vaveld   0 8i53 _      _ _   _4  _ %               _  _  _  _--3- 9
2 m 133 -        Vbbtan beder    I      aa              so          74    5              S   3  pi_   _  _  _     _7  am _s
Sam - 3rVWM     -8 e                                                                     F^ ta-vWe      - IW  - 8353 =_=9 ===  
bwder                             _                    _       wd         -_--         .9  __ W                                             00   004  004__
-9iinimaris ~ ~       ~        ~       44                                                                            a B. 0% 45ve   01^6---  1  Sf0 0 2 024  02 43   02 59   02 61_
Unit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wd rabr Iwe rs9M -94 USDtkm&  ob
Unxt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iw ral grave roads  S450Dtk
Pnt  ab oM ea      Aoad                      S0 U4)k



- 30 -
Annex 5
Page I of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND IGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technieal Assistance to MCTPC and RMMD
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Road Maintenance Management Division (RMMD) of the Ministry of Communications,
Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) is a young and newly established division, which has been
entrusted with the responsibility for maintenance of the Arterial Road network in the Lao PDR.
2.    With the considerable maintenance backlog, the increasing need for all-year passable roads called
for by the developing sectors of the country, and the Government's policy for privatization of the road
construction and maintenance activities, the task of maintaining the Arterial Roads in the Lao PDR will
be of paramount importance for the successful development of the country. A prerequisite to the
successful implementation of all of these activities is to ensure that the RMMD will possess the essential
resources particularly in terms of key personnel.
3.    In addition, the further development of the maintenance management system, the necessary
training activities - related to staff within the RMMD organization as well as in the provincial DCTPC's -
and the development of new technology for routine and periodic maint nance by LCB contracting, will
also require a considerable amount of resources.
Objectives
4.    The primary objectives of the proposed technical assistance to RMMD are:
(a)   to ensure the successful establishment of the RMMD,
(b)   to ensure that the Arterial Road network rapidly attains a maintainable condition.
(c)   to initiate the implementation of the Bridge Maintenance System (BMS),
Scope of Work
5.    The technical assistance team will assist the Road Maintenance Management Division (RMMD)
with the considerable number of important - and many of them new - activities to be undertaken in the
future, and provide assistance related to:
(a)    establishment of a suitable road referencing and classification system for Arterial Roads,
(to be confirmed by decrees),



- 31 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
(b)    detailed road and bridge inventories and condition surveys of Arterial Roads,
(c)    updating the computerized bridge management system,
(d)    establishment of a road maintenance management system,
(e)    establishment of the necessary planning capacity to undertake the preparation of short,
medium and long term maintenance plans, as well as annual maintenance budget requests
for Arterial Roads,
(f)    establishment of a contracts administration and auditing capacity, with the purpose of
facilitating the "contracting out" of maintenance works by LCB contracts among private
contractors and/or privatized state enterprises,
(g)   registration and classification of contractors eligible for LCB contracts for road
construction and maintenance works,
(h)    necessary site coordination, monitoring and supervision capacity for routine and periodic
maintenance works, as well as for the spot improvement programmes,
(i)    establishment of budgeting, cost control, and auditing capacity and systems for the
RMMD organization.
6.    The present technical assistance to RMMD, under the IDA/NDF financed Highway Improvement
Project, consisting of two road restoration specialists (RRS I and RRS I), will therefore be adjusted, by
revising their terms of reference in accordance with the above requirements. In addition the technical
assistance will be expanded t cover assistance on a countrywide basis.
7.    The technical assistance to MCTPC and RMMD will include the following assistance:
MMA          Maintenance Management Advisor (previous RRS I)
RRS South    Road Restoration Specialist, South (previous RRS II)
RRS Central  Road Restoration Specialist, Central
RRS North    Road Restoration Specialist, North
Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
8.    The terms of reference (TOR) for the technical assistance positions are outlined below.
Position:    Maintenance Management Advisor (MMA)
Attachment:   Road Maintenance Management Division (RMMD) of the Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), stationed at
RMMD headquarters in Vientiane.
Qualification: A graduate civil engineer with at least 20 years experience with highway
authorities in developing countries.



- 32 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
Preferably holding a higher degree and be fully conversant with maintenance
management practices and systems currently in use in developing countries.
He should also have considerable experience in the evaluation of the performance
of both paved and unpaved roads in these countries.
He should possess fluency in written and spoken English. Some knowledge of
the Lao or Thai language would be an advantage.
Duties:      The MMA will report directly to the Director of the RMMD, and will be
responsible for:
(1)   coordination and management of the technical assistance team,
(2)   assistance in establishing standard procedures for defining inventories of
the Arterial Road network,
(3)   assistance in establishing standard procedures for evaluating pavement
condition of both paved and unpaved roads,
(4)   liaison with the Transport Planning Unit (TPU) of the MCTPC in
defining and implementing a road referencing system for the whole road
network,
(5)   assistance in mobilization of the bridge inspection and bridge inventory
system,
(6)   assistance related to the identification of personnel for key positions in
the RMMD and with the training of counterpart s$qff, together with other
activities concerning the planning, monitoring and management of the
training programme both in Lao PDR and in other countries,
(7)   assistance with the planning of short, medium and long term strategies
for the Arterial Road network, and in preparation of annual maintenance
budget requests,
(8)   liaison with the TPU in preparing a Road Data Bank for the Lao road
network, which will be utilized by other divisions of the MCTPC,
(9)   assistance in the identification of the optimum maintenance strategy for
each section of the road network,
(10)  assistance in establishment of a technical reference library in the RMMD
to ensure that RMMD engineers are up to date with current practices and
research in other developing countries,



- 33 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
(11)  preparation of quarterly progress reports on the technical assistance and
other reports related to the project,
(12)  assistance in the coordination and liaison functions as appropriate with
other consultants and donor agencies,
(13)  ultimately to assist in the introduction of a Road Maintenance
Management System initially for the Arterial Road network but flexible
enough to eventually incorporate the Provincial Road network.
Road Restoration Specialists (RRS North, RRS Central, and RRS South)
Attachment:  Road Maintenance Management Division (RMMD) of the Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), stationed at the
office of one of the Road Maintenance Regions (North, Central or South).
Qualification: A graduate civil engineer with at least 15 years relevant experience, of which at
least 10 years must have been spent in developing countries, working with
highway authorities.
Must possess a sound knowledge of maintenance practices and systems in these
countries and also have practical experience in evaluating the pavement
conditions of both paved and unpaved roads.
Should also have some experience in the maintenance of small bridges.
Must be able to rapidly establish rapport with counterpart staff especially under
field conditions and have good communication skills.
Must be fluent in written and spoken English. Working knowledge of the Lao
or Thai language would be considered an advantage.
Duties:      The RRS shall report - through the MMA - to the Director of the RMMD, and
will be responsible for:
(I)   assistance to the Chief Maintenance Engineer (CME) in the coordination
and monitoring of routine and periodic maintenance as well as spot
improvements on the Arterial Roads,
(2)   assistance to the RMMD and provincial Supervisors in the on site
supervision of works carried out by maintenance contractors under LCB
contracts or other contracts,
(3)   assistance to the RMMD and provincial Supervisors in undertaking road
and bridge inventories and conditions surveys,



- 34 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
(4)   assistance with the training of counterpart staff particularly under field
conditions,
(5)   assistance with the mobilization and execution of the Bridge Maintenance
System (BMS),
(6)   assistance with the identification of optimum maintenance treatments and
selection for the Arterial Roads network.
Counterparts: The RRS will work closely with the Chief Maintenance Engineer (CME) and the
Maintenance Supervisors of the Region.



- 35 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPRC             . .-NT PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Traportation Plannig Unit
Tenns of Reference
Background
1.        As recommended by the National Transport Study (NTS), financed by UNDP and executed
by the World Bank and completed in April 1991, the Transportation PlaPnning Unit was formed in the
MCTPC. The Unit has been receiving support through Technical Assistance provided under the First
Highway Improvement Project (Credit 2218-LA).
2.         Following the recent reorganization of the Ministry, the TPU will become a division of the
General Office responsible for budget and planning in the road, waterways and transport sectors.
Although the TPU now is firmly established as an institution, the proposed procedures for data collection,
planning, budgeting and follow up are not satisfactorily in place.
3.        The planning function has been strengthened in the new MCTPC organization. Therefore,
the TPU will have an important task in assisting the newly created planning divisions in the Transport
and in the Communication Departments. Many of the tasks presently carried out by the TPU will
gradually be taken over the these departnental planning divisions.
4.         TPU is also needed for implementing planning and budgeting procedures at the provincial
level.
5.         As part of the General Office, TPU will be well suited to monitor the progress of the NTS
in the various departments and in encouraging the departments to fiuther develop and refine the NTS
action plan and to adapt it to correspond with the policy of each department.
6.         Given these important tasks it is recommended that the TPU is given continued technical
assistance as part of the IDA loan under the Second Highway Improvement Project.
Objectives
7.         The objective of the technical assistance is to assist the MCTPC in institution building by
further developing the existing planning institutions and by assisting in the build up of planning capacity
in the provinces and in the Communication and Transport Departments.



- 36 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Scope of Work
8.         The Consultant shall be responsible to the MCTPC's Director of General Office and shall
assist the Director of TPU in carrying out the work program and in training the TPU staff and provincial
planning staff so that planning procedures are institutionalized. The tasks will include, but not necessarily
be limited to the following:
(a)  In view of the new organization ensure that the TPU, the planning divisions in the
Transport and Communication Departments and in the provinces are sufficiently staffed to
be able to carry out their assigned tasks. Assist in implementing in other departments of
the MCTPC and in the provinces, tasks currently carried out by the TPU staff. Establish
a system for sharing planning responsibilities between the planning entities.
(b)   Maintain and further develop established liaison with the provinces aud other departments
of the MCTPC, other Ministries such as Planning Committee, Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry and the Prime Minister's Office, other foreign funded projects
and donor organizations. Improve the routines for sharing data and information by
establishing regular meetings, review procedures and determine appropriate sendlists.
(c)   Assist the MCTPC to formulate policy for road and waterway investments and maintenance
and to prepare planning guidelines.
(d)   Train planning staff in the provinces to collect data. Follow up on procedures for collecting
data in other Ministries such as Custom Department and Ministry of Trade.
(e)   Monitor traffic counts being carried out by staff in the provinces under supervision by the
Communication Department. Appraise the system for collecting traffic data based on using
provincial staff and develop systems for collecting data on urban traffic. Appraise the
permanent counting stations which utilize the automatic counters.
(f)  In cooperation with the Communication Department maintain a database for traffic accidents
on the national road network.
(g)  In cooperation with UNDP planned support to the Transport sector collect data on
international trade routes and propose policy alternatives for transit traffic and for import
and export.
(h)  In cooperation with the Communication Department maintain the Road Inventory, including
data bases and maps.
(i)   Continue to develop the capacity of the provinces to carry out planning activities.
Coordinate these efforts with the proposed UNDP project "Strengthening of Provincial
Capacity for Road Maintenance and Improvements".
(j)   Carry out an OD-study on a national level in order to get data on the effect of Government
policy and investments since NTS.



- 37 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
(k)   Update vehicle and vessels operating costs on an annual basis using price figures collected
in cooperation with the State Statistical Center.
(I)   Update vehicle and vessel operating costs on an annual basis using price figures collected
in cooperation with the State Statistical Center.
(m)  Purchase a model for traffic forecasting and train the staff in the use of the models. Make
traffic forecast for Vientiane Municipality.
(n)  In cooperation with the proposed ADB project for Urban Development, review the plans
for investments in roads and transport in Vientiane.
(o)   Train staff in the Communication Department to carry out cost-benefit analysis on proposed
projects.
(p)  In cooperation with the Communication Departnent train staff in project management and
budget follow-up.
(q)   Follow up on completed foreign funded projects on the national roads to see if the
anticipated benefits have been realized and with a view that increased experience will result
in ever better of value for money in the selection, design and execution of investment and
mlaintenance projects.
(r)   Follow up on the effect of privatization in the transport and road constructing and
maintenance industry.
(s)   Advise on transport policy and investment proposals as needed. Make data, maps and plans
available to donor agencies, other Ministries, provinces, etc. in order to assist them in their
planning efforts.
(t)   Monitor the progress of the NTS Action Plan. Encourage Directors of Departments to
continually update the action plan.
(u)   Prepare and implement a training program for the TPU staff and planning staff from the
Communication and Transport Departments and from the provinces. Make use of resources
already available in Lao education and training institutions, Universities in Thailand and
Consultants providing technical assistance to the Ministry. The program will be formulated
in cooperation with the Manpower Development Unit and the proposed UNDP project. The
program will be aimed at improving planning skills, technical skills and language skills.
(v)   Develop in cooperating with the appropriate Lao educational institutions a curriculum for
transportation planners which will ensure that 1 LCTPC institutions will be to recruit future
planners.
(w)  Review material, computer software and periodicals.  Develop manuals and training
material in the Lao language. Cooperate with the library of the School of Communication.
(x)   Discuss in cooperation with the Division for International Relation the need of Donor
support for Institutional Development. Assist Donors in obtaining data and information.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(US$ '000)
Tom                         )AN DF.C 199M                   SAN 12itc 1996                  )AN 3r3K 19V?                     SAN DEC 19it                      mm DEC 1999                      SAN DEC ?
<-_1                        Locat      Fesa        Tawt    lwta       roreIg       Tont    L.AW       re2         Totl       L-a      F-           Tot       Ltmt    FVt            Tol        L l        Fr           Tawl      Law       fWote        Trol
SAVANNA*I4IET-PAKSE ROAD
Cmi W,o.
8tdwy Waft                            1.923      I0,8V?     12.820       28        1.634     1.923      385       2.179     2.1564       41       2,724       1,?G5       481       2.724      3.205        192       I.09iO       1 ?S2      0           S        oil
srha6oot.36t*p6b                        371       2.125      2.5C0        56        319       375       7n          425       SC0        113        61*        7no         323       638         71          19         206        I2S                     0         0
S9b4,4a W..s                          2.298      23,022     15.323       345       3.913     2,29m      460       2,604     3,44         sn       1.362       3.955       s9        3.342      3.955       211        1.196      1.4          96         545       6
('owimlesSqk"s                            218         4e6        624         46         8s        III       46          is        3          46         8S         II         46          BS        131        24           4S        69         11          20        11
TA le e.MIFoit                            279          Sl8       797        112        207       319        3          2S9       399         28         S3          so         0          0           0         0            0         0          0           0         0
Tot S          lo ts-PAw R              2,795       t3,943     t4741        t02      2.24       2.741      645       2,99      3,3          657      J,499       4,166       69        3.447      4.486       225        t.241      3,A         2*7         S65       672
NATIONAL ROAD tANlNANOF:
Cml Wks
Spa to.pm     m                       2.          3.97C      5.30t       332        9S       3.326       91      12193      1.592        39        1.9         .92        2I"         SW7        796          0           0          0
22          0         6
Rin    amw                            1,.0>6      2.03$      3.130       164         tG5      470       242        448       6489        348      3.07        1,555       142        264         407         0            0         8
22         4          0
20.   Row f?3a3                         a           263       220         62       124         1i3       26          49       7n           0          0          0          0          0           0         0            0         2o
90         0          0
FA aM82ID                                 720      2t31        20518       144         268       412      2YI         SIS       823        21S         S3S        971          O          0          O3         0           0          I2
0           0         0           00
To' Nil-u   Rd41  Mn 3,29                           7,1t3     10.142        70       3.A*2     2,1S2       953       2,225     3.1781     1,24      .2746       3979         341        *61       IJ03          0                      0 
4*     TM S204(3t Rf IV     S A
TtAININli
Tca.ow Mmt"a *24                          170         326        486        322        206       Ul         n          73 n     t2          19          15         S1          a          0          23         0           0          12
C.wd    s.Md*                              8           230       23           0          0         0         0          0         0         SI O150               230          0          0          0          O           0          0
Ac~NV 4sN,,                                ze28         7         15         2           3        14         8          2        11          8           2         it          0          0          0          0           0          0
0          0          0D
Ftfh-ev                                     0         15     10 23 O  I23     0         2s        IS         0         3j        38          0          38         38          O         U          38          0          23         23
%        *    _u -Sm,      Tw30                       220        IS0         S         30        38         8         10        7S          8          IID        38          8 6I                 i           0           0          0
T otd       " S mkh     & Tipk*           309         742      I.,83 S      3I         255       137        55        142       197        33$         214        369          a         6t         75          a          U3         2e3
ral am Ct                               6.383      22.223     28.5i4      IJ34       4281      1617    I,S)         5)16      4,969      2.016      6.4t9      t.541        938      4.76        5I          ttS        1,2613     1496 I
2223       14         6732
Ph"  (..t                              630       2.220      2.S51        233        418       S52       I65        St2      6477        202        410         itD         99        4f3i       S4          24         125        I10
23         17         67
,t.. C'.                               4$1        1.814      2.2ff        27         82        311       94         30)       Yu         83         S81        761        121        s37        658         37         I99        736
23         109       129
Tdo  p.*2 ('43                          7447       2t.,U5     333         1,495      44t47     6,282  1 .913        6,10      8.0057     2.m         7.729     10.127      I.m        5.1!0      6.58t       29$        31.8       3,103
__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ ______ _ ___ _      _  _  __  _ __   _           _  _.__     _  __  _" t_ __                                           _  __  _  __  _  _ __  _    __  _  __  _  _t69 2 878                                    6
I



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HGHWAY DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Component                         1               2              3               4              5               6              7
1995           1996            1997           1998            1999           2000           2001
SAVANNAKHET-PAKSE ROAD
Civil Works
Roadways                     ._                        .   .   _   .  .   _   ,  .   _  .   _   .  _   .   _   _   _.
Rehabilitate 30 bridges
Construction Supervision
TA to Enterprises
TOTAL SAVANNAKHET-PAIKSE ROAD
NATIONAL ROAD MAINTENANCE
Civil Works
Spot Improvements
Routine Maintenance
TA to RMMD                                             __....
TOTAL NATIONAL ROAD MAINTENANCE
CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING
Transport Planning Unit                     ___________
Coordinating Consultant
Fellowships
Short Courses                                           ._.._.._ .._.                         _._
TOTAL CONSULTING SERVICES AND
TRAINING
TOTAL BASE COST
Physical Contingencies oo
Price Contingencies
TOTAL PROJECT COST



- 40 -
Annex 9
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PR %CT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement          Cumulative          Disb. Profiles
Semester      in Semester                                 Lao PDR
FY       Ending         (US$ million)  (US$ milUon)       %         All Sectors
1995     Dec 94             1.0           1.0             3             3
June 95           1.4            2.4             8            10
1996     Dec 95            2.4            4.8            16             14
June 96           3.0            7.8            26            22
1997     Dec 96            4.2            12.0           40            26
June 97           4.8            16.8           56            42
1998     Dec 97            4.8            21.6           72            50
June 98           3.3            24.9           83            58
1999     Dec 98            3.0            27.9           93            66
June 99           0.9            28.8           96            74
2000     Dec 99             0.6           29.4           98             78
June 00           0.3            29.7           99            82
2001     Dec 00             0.3           30.0          100             90
June 01                                                       94
2002     Dec 01                                                         98
June 02                                                      100



- 41 -
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY I1PROVEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
1.          The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision at
headquarters for procurement review, correspondence, and review of reports, which is estimated at nine
staff-weeks during the first and second years and about five staff-weeks thereafter.
Approx. Dates                 Activity                    SIlli Needs          Staff-weeks
October 1994        Supervision Mission
-  Expedite start-up              Highway Engineer and            3
-  Review consultant prourement   Trawort Economist
progress
-  Review civil works detailed
design and procurement
progress and program
engineering and procuremnt
-  Review maintenance and spot
improvement program and
budget request for 1993.
April 1995          Supervision Mission
-  Review progress of consultants   Highway Engineer and          3
-  Review progress of consulting    Transport Economist
for civil works
-  Review progress of
maintenance program
- Review progress of training
program
-  Review project accounting
system, inspect Special Account
records, and SOEs.
October 1995        Sunervision Mission
-  Inspect civil works            Highway Engineer and            3
-  Review mainnance and spot    Transport Economist
improvement program.



- 42 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Activity                   Skill Needs          Staff-weeks
Apnl 1996           Supervision Mission
-  Review progress of civil works,  Highway Engineer             3
routine maintenance and spot
improvement programs
- Inspect ongoing works
- Review project special account
and SOEs
October 1996        Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer and           3
Transport Economist
April 1997          Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer and           3
Transport Economist
October 1997        Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
April 1998          Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer and           3
Transport Economist
October 1998        Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
April 1999          Supervision Mission               Highway Enginer and            3
___________   _ _____________________          Transport Economist
October 1999        Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
April 2000          Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
October 2000        Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
April 2001          Supervision Mission               Highway Engineer               2
October 2001        Supervision and PCR Mission       Highway Engineer               3



- 43 -
Annex 11
Page I of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
I.           Monitoring of project progress will be the responsibility of all units concerned with the
execution of the project.  Monitoring will be summarized and coordinated by the Director of
Communications with the assistance of the Coordinating Consultant. The Director will hold monthly
progress review meetings with responsible officers. Project progress will be monitored using a
Computerized Project Management System managed by the coordinating consultant, which will provide
outputs on the financial and physical status of each project component. Each main area of development
under the project will be monitored on a continuous basis and reviewed with the government by
supervision missions. There will also be an annual review at which the rehabilitation and maintenance
programs achievements and needs for the following year are discussed, together with the MCTPC
submission to MOF for the following year's budget for road maintenance.
2.           The outputs of all project components will be monitored on the Coordinating Consultant's
system. In particular, progress of the following items will be included:
Upgrading Capacity for Road Maintenance
a.    Appointment of TA consultants;
b.    Develop annual program, design, production of LCB SBDs, procurement and execution
of contracts for spot improvements;
c.    Development of annual program, contract documents, procurement and execution of
routine maintenance;
d.    Annual condition survey of roads and bridges in the network (this will consist of a
rudimentary windshield survey at first, with later implementation of an improved system
to be designed under the project);
e.    Assessment of annual needs, development of budget submission, budget accorded, and
funds released;
f.    Design and establishment of road numbering/reference system (with TPU);
g.    Develop and implement road maintenance management system;
h.    Set up registration system for contractors for maintenance works; and
i.    Set up contract administration and management system in RMMD.
Enterprise Training Program
a.    Appointment of consultants;
b.    Establish cost accounting system for the enterprise;
c.    Reorganize disposition of enterprise equipment fleet and workshops;
d.    Organize financial management system of the enterprise;
e.    Negotiate first contract with MCTPC;
f.    Negotiate second contract with MCTPC;
g.    Analyze enterprise's unit costs; and
h.    Bid on subsequent contracts.



- 44 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
Construction of Savannakhet-Pakse Road
a.    Appointment of construction supervision consultants;
b.    Complete detailed engineering and bid documents for each lot;
c.    Let direct contracts with the enterprise, monitor progress; and
d.    Let LCB contracts, monitor progress.
TA to MCTPC for Coordinating Consultant and TPU
a.    Coordinating Consultant mobilized;
b.    TPU consultant mobilized;
c.    Collect statistics on MV fleet;
d.    Track capital and maintenance expenditures;
e.    Develop investment plans for sector;
f.    Track transport sector tax revenues/user charges;
g.    Conduct annual traffic count program;
h.    Set up simple road accident data base;
L.    Develop proposed policy for international traffic;
j.     Maintain road inventory data base;
k.    Send students for degree courses;
1.    Develop and implement seminar and visit training program;
m.    Track project costs and IDA disbursements; and
n.    Produce PCR.



- 45 -
Annex 12
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
Vehicl Operating Cost Savings (US$'000)
Savannakhet-Palcse (1,335 km)
Yearoiect Costs   _Frei                 Passenger      Total      Net Benefits
1994             740.0                                               -740.0
1995            3,515.0        68.3          28.6         97.0      -3,418.0
1996            3,515.0       420.4         176.3        596.7      -2,918.3
1997            3,515.0       903.6         378.8       1,282.5     -2,232.5
1998            3,515.0      1,531.9        642.3       2,174.2     -1,340.8
1999                        2,328.9         976.4       3,305.3      3,305.3
2000                         2,683.6      1,125.1       3,808.7      3,808.7
2001                         3,076.5      1,289.9       4,366.4      4,366.4
2002                         3,511.3      1,472.2       4,983.5      4,983.5
2003                         3,991.9      1,673.7       5,665.6      5,665.6
2004                         4,522.6      1,896.1       6,418.8      6,418.8
2005            1,368.0b     5,108.1      2,141.6       7,249.7      5,881.7
2006            1,368.0b     5,465.6      2,291.5       7,757.1      6,389.1
2007                         5,848.2      2,451.9       8,900.1      8,300.1
2008                         6,257.6      2,623.5       8,881.1      8,881.1
2009                         6,695.6      2,807.2       9,502.8      9,502.8
2010                         7,164.3      3,003.7      10,168.0     10,168.0
2011                         7,665.8      3,214.0      10,879.8     10,879.8
2012                         8,202.4      3,438.9      11,641.4     11,641.4
2013                         8,776.6      3,679.7      12,456.3     12,456.3
2014                         9,391.0      3,937.2      13,328.2     13,328.2
2015             -986.7                                               986.7
IRR          27.9%
a.   Without surfacing, roughness (IRI from 12 to 18) increases VOC by 10% per year increments
from year 3 to year 7; constant thereafter.
b.   Primer coat and single surface treatment in year 7 @ US$18,240/km
(US$1.85/m2 (sst) + 1.18/m2 (primer) 6 m width



- 46 -
Annex 13
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Savannakhet-Pakse Road Improvement - Sensitivity Analysis
ERR by Test Case
(%)
Base Case: 7% traffic growth (NTS 1990 forecast)                          27.9
Lower Growth assumption (6% traffic growth)                               25.1
Higher Growth assumption (Adj. TPU 1993 forecast)a                        34. lb
(Passenger car & LDV traffic: 12% per year for 1993-2000; 9% after
2000)
(Bus & heavy freight traffic: 10% per year, 1993-2000; 8% after 2000)
Base Case with Cost increased by 15%                                      17.2b
Base Case with Cost increased by 15% & no road deterioration VOC          14.5b
ratchet effect
Base Case with Cost increased by 15% & VNC  savings reduced by 15%        13.2b
and no road deterioration VOC ratchet efLcct
50% lower traffic growth (3% per year)                                    20.0
Base Case with generated traffic (25% !ncremental traffic increase with   29.9
50% of additional VOC savings counted)
a.    TPU forecast for RN 13 South, sites #17N&S (Jct. NR 13 & 11), based on 1990, 1992, 1993
counts, forecast ADT of 300 & 500 for 1995 respectively (25% per year - 1992/93-95) and
12.5% growth 1995-2000, 10% thereafter.
b.    If cost of prime coat & surface treatment in 7th year not increased by 15% effect is to increase
ERR by 1 % from that shown.



- 47 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Highway Improvement Project Maintenance Study, COWiconsult, Denmark, Final Report,
October 1993.



- 48 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IPROVEMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
Organization Chart
| inister
Vice MfinfsterVceNite
I
TPU
G16eeral                                             PeramuteI
office                                               Departt
Ptam~ing
and Budget
Icouiication           Trasport|                      Post           Habitat         Aviation
Depatment            Depatrmts                    Departent       Department       Deptm      |
Source: NCTPC



- 49 -
Cbart 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATTIC REPUBLIC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization of National Road Maintenance with RMMD
Maintenance Regions for Roads
!mmmicatinaon                                             P RiciatI
N  et Carten a                            Sol,h
-  Technicat CtruTtion              intePnc Cc nicatiTn
I  Divisiomnl     7Division      IDivision         Division                  Services
I lafntenance of |                       !fllainc of 
| latinamt Roads |                       Provlnciat Read
| lainwteriance Regian |   laintenarnce Regio  |   laintenanc Regionl |laintero
N lorth         ll       Centrat                Sot lll             Unit      l
scurce: NCTPC



IBRD 25206
to4~~~~~~~~~~H
Th,. nrp hos benn prepared      CHIIt                                 CHINA
< ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b J                            r Te Wbrld fbonk' ssoff       _          ? 
CHINA                                                      Z    r *    foa          MYNsveMA
-te22oo us of The World &ok_
Gwro The dwov,nons sed 
,e,d ithe bondones shei,Jo;
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e tAr sstnesmp do not slpI[s on the
_Zport of The Wold hoeGropC
P7fthrpngsoty   >            sanr luagment on ftleyidl   r
0fs of 0~ CO-tnr.to3, Of 0
ON Jendsesnont or onitlpton- ot
MYAN,UAR,                                                             s } 1 / P NGS4LY  such bosdorses
vsS4MrHA 9 >__ rt VIET NAM    I                  THAiLAID
C0AMBODIA
OLJD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te
HOUA~ ~ ~~~~~~~~OT
C                                              G2S                                                                              Cl-f ''
iTHAILAND               y           VIEsw SOUT 4
/                  ?                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIlNA
SEA
-18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Fafi   JX  nekhwnM  gFenk w                        \G>ongsily<,/    5)  ~VIET
JV1IENTIAMB  PREFECTURE OF
~~~~~~~~~~~~vlENTIANE                                 t)KHA"QMUANE                       NAM
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLUC
SECOND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Roads: .,h oi'
' Prposed Protect Rood  t   Airports                                    SAVANNAKHET
* .   Preous Projec Rood   o   Selectd Towns
-      Paved National      e   Province Headquarerst
Unpaved Notional    6   Nation Capitals
Paved Province    -    Province Boundones
Unpaved Province    -    "'emnatinol Boundanes                                                 te
()   Nationol Rood Numbers                                                                                       SEKONG
E3   Province Road Numbers                                                                   CIAMPASAK
IOLOMETERS9       50       100       1,0                                                                         ATrAPEU       J
MILESO             50             6o0
CAMBODIA                                                                    14_
SEPTEMBER 1993



