Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2606 LA
                   (Second Highway Improvement Project)
                                  between
                     LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 20, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2606 LA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1994, between  LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a) "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banque Centrale Lao,
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial
Decree No. 95/PM, dated June 22, 1993;
      (b) "Environmental Guidelines" means the guidelines approved by the
Borrower pursuant to its Prime Ministerial Decree to be adopted pursuant to
the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, which Guidelines shall
set forth the minimum environmental protection standards and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, applicable to the implementation of all
road construction, improvement and maintenance projects throughout the
Borrower's territory;
      (c) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to
any of the Borrower's financial years, which period commences on October 1
and ends on September 30 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years"
means collectively each of said Fiscal Year;
      (d) "MCTPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communication, Transport,
Post and Construction;
      (e) "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established by the
Borrower within MCTPC, pursuant to MCTPC's Decree No. 0074, dated January
14, 1994, which Unit is referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (f) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (g) "RMMD" means the Road Maintenance Management Division of the
Department of Communications of MCTPC;
      (h) "Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's 1994-1999 annual
program for the routine and periodic maintenance of the roads within its
jurisdiction, which program includes the necessary budgetary allocations and
public investments for the financing thereof, as such program has been
approved by the Borrower, and as such program may be adjusted from time to
time in agreement with the Association;
      (i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
      (j) "State Enterprise" means the commercial state enterprise
established by the Borrower pursuant to MCTPC's Decree No. 2375, dated
October 30, 1993, merging the Borrower's prior State Enterprise No. 13/2,
State Enterprise No. 13/3 and State Enterprise No. 13/4 into a single
commercial state enterprise, and which is to be maintained by the Borrower
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banque pour le Commerce
Exterieure Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
Page  3
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2004
and ending January 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred and ninety
dollars ($790) in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them
of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
Page  4
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project, except Part A (2) thereof, through
MCTPC, and shall carry out Part A (2) of the Project through the State
Enterprise, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, financial and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds
(including foreign exchange), facilities services and other resources
required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall maintain within MCTPC, until the
completion of the Project, the Project Coordination Unit headed by an
experienced and qualified engineer, and shall continue to vest it with such
responsibilities, funds, staff and other requisite resources as shall be
required to enable the PCU to undertake the overall supervision and
coordination of the Project.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
within MCTPC, until the completion of the Project, a Project Management Unit
(the "PMU"), with functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, which PMU shall be responsible for the day-to-day supervision
of the construction of works under Part A (2) of the Project.
      Section 3.04. (a) Not later than October 31 in each of its Fiscal
Years, beginning Fiscal Year 1995, the Borrower shall review with the
Association the progress achieved by the Borrower, during the immediately
preceding Fiscal Year, in carrying out the Road Maintenance Program and the
adequacy of its financing and related budgetary allocations.
            (b) If the results of any of said reviews are not satisfactory
to the Association, the Borrower shall promptly take all such remedial
action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary to achieve
the objectives of the Road Maintenance Program, and thereafter shall carry
out the Road Program with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with the Association's recommendations.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure
that all road maintenance and periodic spot improvement works under the Road
Program are carried out in conformity with the Environmental Road
Guidelines, and otherwise in a manner which ensures that any adverse
environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely manner.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain the State Enterprise until
completion of the Project, and shall ensure that said State Enterprise
possesses at all times functions and attributes acceptable to the
Association.
      Section 3.07. For the purpose of assisting the State Enterprise in
carrying out Part A (2) of the project, the Borrower shall cause MCTPC to
employ and thereafter assign to the State Enterprise at least two (2)
experts in contracting road works, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, each with responsibilities,
qualifications and terms of employment satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and consultants' services required for the Project,
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  5
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four (4) months after the end of
                  each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that:
      (a) The Borrower shall have adopted a Prime Ministerial Decree
approving the Environmental Guidelines, in form and substance acceptable to
the Association, and said Decree shall have become effective.
      (b) The Borrower shall have established the PMU, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
      (c) The Borrower shall have caused MCTPC to employ and thereafter
assign to the State Enterprise the two experts referred to in Section 3.07
of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Page  6
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and
IV of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate, or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Post Office Box No. 46
            Vientiane
            Lao People's Democratic Republic
            Cable address:                      Telex:
            MINFINANCE                          4369
            VIENTIANE                           MOF LS
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
            INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA),
            Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT).
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Hiem Phommachanh
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
                                   Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
      1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                    Credit              % of
                                   Allocated        Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in          to be
          Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)       Civil works                4,030,000         100%
          under Part A(1)
          of the Project
(2)       Civil works               11,120,000         100%
          under Part A(2)
          of the Project
(3)       Consultants'               3,290,000         100%
          services, in-
          cluding audits
          and training
(4)       Unallocated                3,360,000
          TOTAL                     21,800,000
2.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.
3.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for works and services not exceeding fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Road Program, which is designed to generally help maintain and improve
the Borrower's road network, and to strengthen the Borrower's institutional
capacity to manage and implement the Road Program.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Civil Works
1.        Spot regraveling, grading, embankment raising, provision of
drainage and culverts and improvement of bridges at selected locations over
a distance of two thousand kilometers (2000 kms) throughout the Borrower's
road network.
2.        Upgrading of about one hundred thirty-five kilometers (135 kms)
of the Borrower's Savannakhet-Pakse road to bituminous surface standard.
3.        Carrying out of routine maintenance, including ditch clearing,
culvert, bridge and pavement maintenance over a distance of about five
thousand five hundred kilometers (5,500 kms) throughout the Borrower's road
network.
Page  8
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
1.        Provision of technical assistance services to RMMD to strengthen
its capacity to manage the implementation of the maintenance component of
the Road Program.
2.        Provision of technical assistance services to the State Enterprise
to strengthen its capabilities to manage, plan and cost road construction
and improvement and maintenance works, including the preparation of bids in
connection therewith.
3.        Provision to MCTPC of: (a) technical assistance services to assist
it in the overall implementation of the Project, including construction
supervision services to assist it in supervising the implementation of works
under Part A (2) of the Project; (b) technical assistance to assist it in
overall transport planning; (c) technical assistance to develop its
accounting and auditing capabilities; and (d) training for its personnel in
engineering and economics, including study tours abroad.
                            *   *   *  *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Works
Part A: Local Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof civil works shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.        Bidders for the works under paragraph 1 above hereof shall be pre-
qualified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the "Guidelines for Procurement,
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
"Guidelines").
Part B: Procurement Practices
    Without any limitation or restriction upon any of the provisions of the
Guidelines, the Borrower shall ensure, in respect of the procurement of
works in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part A hereof, that:
1.        All tender documents shall be made available in the English
language, as well as in the Lao language;
2.        Foreign bidders shall not be required to have local agents;
3.        No prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
4.        No preference shall be granted on the basis of: (a) national
origin of the bidder, except as provided in paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto; (b) the legal
nature of the bidder; or (c) any financial facilities offered by a bidder,
such as export credit or suppliers' credit.
5.        The opening of bids shall take place in public and in the presence
of all bidders wishing to attend, including foreign bidders; and
6.        Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidder, irrespective
of the bidder's national origin.
Part C: Direct Contracting
    Works under Part A (1) of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two million
Page  9
dollars ($2,000,000), and works under Part A (2) of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000) or less up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five million
dollars ($5,000,000) may be procured under contract after direct
negotiations with contractors, with the Association's prior approval, and
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalifications: with respect to the prequalification of
bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    With respect to all contracts for works, estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000)
per contract, awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
(2) conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
3.  With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions
of Part C hereof the Borrower, shall furnish to the Association for its
review and approval a draft of the negotiated contract, and shall
furthermore furnish to the Association two conformed copies of each such
contract promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or to making the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
4.        The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
2.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
    1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one
Page  10
million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
    2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
    3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for Eligible Expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
    4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
    5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a) If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b) Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
    6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
Page  11
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
