FILE. COPY                         R E S TRESTRICTED
Report No. TO-592a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
GHAZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRAN
August 25, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             = Rials 75.75
Rial 1               = US$0.0132013
Rials 1, 000,000     = US$13,201
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)      = 2. 47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    = 0. 62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =0. 386 square miles
1 meter (m)         = 39. 37 inches
I square meter (m ) = 10. 76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )  = 35. 31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm ) = 810. 7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)   = 0. 039 inches



I R A N
GHA.ZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUHVIARY            a .  . . . . e o  0 0o0000 a a a     ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . .  .     . . . . . . . .        1
I1.   BACKGROUND  . a o o o   a e   o e     0o  0 o o  o      1
III.   THE PROJECT AREA  . . . E  T  . . E   . . . . . . .     2
General 0 a * * * * * * * e e a   * 0 * * o* o *      2
Population and Land Tenure  . . . . * 0  a 0 a        2
Climate O a * t o o o o a * a a o a a o o o o o e     3
Soils and Drainage  . *   0 0 0 0 0 0  * 0 0 0 0 0 0  3
Present Status of Cultivation and later Use. . .      4
Marketing and Transportation- 0 a o o . o o a a a     5
IVo   THE PROJECT 0o e     * * * * O  * * o   e * a  * * e    5
Definition  . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o 0 0 0 o 0 0     5
Water Supply and Development Works   . . . 's . .'    6
Agricultural Development   . o        .o  o   . .  .  8
Execution of Wor'l; O O a  *     *.e..                9
Cost Estimates  . . .  . o 0 0 0 0 0 * 0 0 *          9
Financing 0 O * O o o a   0 a a  o o a o 0 0 a o a   10
V.   ORGANIZATION AND XANAGEMMT . . .    . 0 0 a 0. a 0.    11
Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization  . .    11
Ghazvin Water Division  a o   .o  e o o  o a * * o a  13
Credit and Banking Operations       0 0 00 o o 00    13
Teclmical Services and Training . * *   * *           13
VI.   FINANCIAL RESULTS . . . . . S   . O        *           14
Operation and Maintenance Costs . . e * * * * * o    14
Water Charges      . .. . .. ..        ....           15
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . .  .e . . .    15
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . * . . . * .    16
This report was-prepared by Messrs. Greenshields, Chang and Douglass
and is based on findings-of two missions which visited Iran in
November/December 1965 consisting of P.Z. Kirpich, H.T. Chang, A.R.
Johnson, S. Lamba and W. Ladejinsky (consultant), and October/November
1966 consisting of E.L. Greenshields, HeTo Chang and J.C. Douglass.



-2-
ANNEES
1. Progress of Land Reform in Ghazvin Area - November 1966
2.   Lands of Project Area Classified According to Suitability for
Irrigation and Agricultural Use
3.   Present Agricultural Production of Project Area Farms
4.   Anticipated Progress on Execution of Project
5.   Water Supply, Requirements and Quality
6.   Characteristics of Proposed Farm Types, Number of Families to
Benefit and Water Requiremenits
7.   Personnel Engaged on Ghazvin Development Project as of
November 1966
8.   Personnel Requirements for Ghazvin Development Project 1967-1971
9.   Estimate of Costs for Five Year Project
10.   Consultant Services and List of Materials to be Imported
11.   Legal Instruments Establishing Organization for Ghazvin
Development Project
12.   Rural Cooperatives in Ghazvin ProJect Area - Situation as of
November 1966
13.   Projected Uses and Sources of Funds
14.   Estimated Value of Increased Agricultural Output, 1967-1978
15e   Single Family Farm Budgets for Representative Farm Types
16.   Estimated Benefits and Costs
CHART
Proposed Organization for Ghazvin Development Project
MAP
Ghazvin Development Project



I R A N
GHAZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNIARY
i.        The Government of Iran has requested a Bank loan to assist in the
financing of the agricultural development of the high plains area in the
vicinity of Ghazvin.  Ghazvin is approximately 140 km west of the capital
city of Tehran,
ii.       The Project would be the first stage of a long-range development
program for the area, The first stage would undertake development of deep-
well irrigation and modernization of agricultural production within the
limits of the safe yield of the underground aquifers. For the full develop-
ment of the area, water would be imported from the Taleghan River which
flows into the Caspian Sea.
iii.      The Project includes development of water resources for irrigation
of field crops and orchards and for village domestic use, new irrigation of
about 33,600 ha, development of approximately 1,900 dry-farming livestock
farms in the northern part of the project area, grassland improvement on
about 5,500 ha, establishment of agricultural production, supply and mar-
keting services, training of personnel, crop research, engineering services,
and technical assistance.
iv.       The estimated cost of the first stage which started in 1964 to
the beginning of 1972 would be approximately US$67 million, of which the
Government has already expended US$15.7 million through August, 1967. Tlis
leaves about US$ 513 million to be spent for the proposed Bank Project
(1967-1972). The proposed Bank loan of US$22 million would be for foreign
exchange cost of goods used in civil works, imports of equipment and sup-
plies, consultant services, and interest during construction. This is
equivalent to 43 percent of the estimated cost, The Government would meet
all local currency costs.
vo        To carry out the Project, the Government established a High
Council to formalate major po'licies, a Ghazvin Agriculture Organization to
handle agricultural development and a Ghazvin Water Division to be respon-
sible for all works related to water resources development. The High
Council is composed of the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Water
and Power, the Managing Director of Plan Organization, and a Secretary who
acts as Project Manager. The Ghazvin Agriculture Organization and the
Ghazvin Water Division assisted by consultants would construct, operate
and maintain the Project under the coordination of the Project Manager.
vi.       The economic benefits of the Project include an increase in net
income from newly irrigated areas which upon full development of the pro-
gram in about 1978 would be about US$16 million per year. The rate of
return to the economy would be about 10 percent. In addition, the Project
would bring about substantial import savings to the country.



- ii -
vii.      The Project is sound and is suitable for a Bank loan of US$22
million for a term of 25 years including a grace period of six years. The
Borrower would be the Government of Iran.



I R A N
GHAZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iran has requested a Bank loan to issist in
financing the agricultural detveloppent of a part of the Ghazvir Plain,
comprising 443,000 ha, of which about 33,600 ha would be in the. first stage
of development, Ultimately about 88,000 ha would be irrigated by project
works and private wells. The project area, typical of many parts of the
Central Iranian Plateau, is an intermountain basin situated some 140 km
west of Tehran (see Map).
1.02      This appraisal of the Project was prepared by Nlessrs. Greenshields,
Chang and Douglass, and is based on feasibility reports prepared by TAHAL
(Water Planning) Ltd, consultants to the Government, and on findings of two
missions which visited Iran in November/December 1965 consisting of P.Z.
Kirpich, H.T. Chang, A.R. Johnson, S. Lamba and W. Ladejinsky (consultant),
and October/November 1966 consisting of E.L. Greenshields, H.T. Chang and
J.C. Douglass.
II BACKGROUND
2.01      The Ghazvin area was selected for intensive development by the
Government of Iran after initial rehabilitation of villages severely dam-
aged or destroyed by the earthquake of September 1962. The earthquake which
principally damaged the southern part of the area brought into focus the
pressing need for increasing agricultural production and improvement of
living standards of the population. The Government has assigned high pri-
ority to the development of the Ghazvin area within the greater central
plateau to serve as a guide to similar development of the whole region.
2,02      Iran extends over an area of 162 million ha. of which 18 million
ha only can be classified as cropland. An additional 20 million ha are
natural pastures of low grazing capacity. A large part of the remaining
non-agricultural land is desert. About 6 million ha of the arable land are
cultivated annually and 12 million ha remain fallow. Three million ha of
the cultivated area are partly or fully irrigated. The population of Iran
is 25.5 million and is increasing at an annual rate of about 3 percent.
About 70 percent of the total population reside in rural areas and depend
almost entirely on agriculture. Average per capita income in agriculture
is estimated at about US$55-60 compared with an average national per capita
income of US$230.
2.03      Agricultural production makes up about 30 percent of the Iranian
gross domestic product and agricultural products account for about 55 per-
cent of non-petroleum exports. The most important exports are cotton,
wool, dried and fresh fruit, hides and leather products. Main agricultural
imports are sugar, wheat, fats and oils, and tea. These food imports



represent about 10 percent of all imports, Agriculture is lagging behind
the recent expansion of industry and business. The growth in the gross
domestic product has averaged 6.1 percent per year in real terms over the
past 6 years, while total agricultural production growth was only 4 percent
per year. A few commercial crops - sugar beets, tobacco and cotton -
account for most of the gains. Food production has been inadequate in many
areas even for local needs. The Government is striving to make the country
self-sufficient in food production and to shift farmers out of the low level
subsistence type that characterizes present Iranian agriculture.
2.04      A nation-wide land reform, coDminced in January 1962, is consid-
ered as the most important development of the Government's Third Plan. The
land reform is being carried out in three stages, the first of whiich is the
redistribution of land in villages held in excess of one village per land-
lord, the second stage is the establishment of better tenurial arrangements
for the peasants in those villages retained by landlords, and the final
stage is the modernization and improvenent of agricultural production. In
the Ghazvin area the first two stages of the land reform are virtually
completed (see Annex 1 for summary of actions taken by villages). The
implementation of this Project would help accomplish the third and final
stage of the land reform in the Ghazvin area.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Ghazvin Development Project covers most of the Ghazvin Plain
lying between 90 km and 180 km west of Tehran, Most of the area is a rel-
atively flat alluvial plain formed by sediments washed in from the sur-
rounding mountains. The plain varies in elevation from 1,150 to 1,500
meters (3,750 to 4,900 feet) above sea level.
3.02      Two perennial streams enter the plain from the west, and one from
the south. These streams have well defined channels until they reach the
plain where their channels widen out and almost disappear. Outflow from
the plain is to the southeast through an extensive salt marsh. The general
drainage of the area is to the east ifith slopes varying from 3 percent
along the periphery to 0.1 percent in the salt marsh.
3.03      The principal tow;n in the area is Ghazvin (population 90,000) on
the northern part of the plain. Takestan (population 12,000) is the only
other town in the project area and is located on the western side of the
plain. There are 273 villages distributed throughout the project area
with the heaviest concentration in the central part (see Map)*
Population and Land Tenure
3.04      The total population of the project area is estimated at 250,000,
of which the farming population in villages account for about 50 percent,



- 3 -
the non-farming population of villages about 15 percent, and the urban pop-
ulation in Ghazvin and Takestan about 35 percent of the total8 The popula-
tion lives in a traditional subsistence type of society.
3.05      The nuclei of the village community are the patriarchal families.
The average size of family is an estimated 5.5 persons. The family house-
hold often includes one or more married sons, The average size of the vil-
lages is 60 to 80 families, some with as few as 20, and some with as many
as 400 families. Isolated single family farms are found only occasionally.
3.06      Slow changes are taking place in the villages. An increasing num-
ber of people from the villages are migrating to cities. The effect of land
reform is just beginning to take place but can be expected to eventually
have a major impact. Before land reform, the land and wiater of the village
was mostly owned by one or more landlords. Some of the land was owned by
a religious organization* The land and water was divided within each vil-
lage into equal shares, called fards. A fard was let to the head of a
household on a share-cropping basis. The right to a fard was handed doTm
from father to son, but the landowmer could take it away and give it to
someone else and his rule was autocratic and absolute. Under the land re-
form the fard rights can be sold to the peasant or rented to former share-
holders on 30-year terms which are not subject to landowners'cancellation
at will. The rents are based on the average amount of crop production in
the period 1961-1964 and are subject to adjustment every 5 years for pro-
duct price changes only and not for increased yields achieved through the
Project. The tiller of the land is becoming master of his own land and
may be expected to show more and more individualism while retaining the
benefit of cooperative community services. This should, in the long run,
contribute to the introduction of new crops and farming practices provided
it is accompanied by education, extension and adequate credit facilities.
Climate
3.07      The Ghazvin Plain has a continental semi-arid type of climate.
Temperatures vary wTidely between summer and winter and between day and night.
Relative humidity becomes very low during daylight hours in the summer sea-
son but is high in the winter season. Summers from June through September
are apt to be very dry. Precipitation mostly occurs in the wintertime from
November to May, with the greatest amount in April. In Ghazvin the mean
daily temperature for the year is 140C (570F) with extremes varying from
-190C (-20F) to 410C (1060F). Frosts occur as early as October and as late
as April.  The mean annual precipitation at Ghazvin is 307 mm (1211) and in
the southern part of the project area it is less than 200 mm (8"). Indi-
vidual months vary from no precipitation to a high of 126 mm. The maximum
recorded in one day is 43 mm (1.7"). Annual pan evaporation, as measured
at Buin (see Map for location), is 2,630 mm (103").
Soils and Drainage
3.08      Of the total area of 443,000 ha in the Project, 310,000 ha have
been classified as fairly well to well suited for irrigation.   (See Annex 2



- h -
for further description of the soils.) in general the best soils lie on the
periphery and in the central part of the plain. The soils become saline and
saline-alkaline toward the salt marsh southeast of the project area. The
available good land far exceeds the water supply and the problem soils can
thus be avoided in irrigation development. The soils of the project area
have been classified according to their productive capacity and relative
suitability for irrigated agriculture,
3.09      Due to the sparse rainfall and flatness of the plain, there is no
well defined natural surface drainage system. The general slope of the
entire plain is southeast toward the salt marsh. The water table is in
general more than 10 meters belof ground level except near the salt marsh*
The soils included in the Project have adequate internal drainage and no on-
farm subsurface drainage systems are required. There is no need to improve
the surface drainage as all the irrigation water would be fully utilized on
the fields. If some tail water should remain at the lower end of any field,
it could be disposed of beneficially on lower-lying pasture lands.
Present Status of Cultivation and Water Use
3.10      Farmers now cultivate a total of some 132,000 ha of land annually,
78,000 ha under dry-farming and 54,000 ha partially irrigated. Irrigated
land is fallowed in alternate years. Dry-farming land is fallowed for one
or more years between crops, Farm families on the average plant annually
about 6 ha of land, of which 2 5 ha is irrigated and 3.5 ha is dry-farmed.
There is practically no double cropping in the area.
3.11      Fifty-four percent of the irrigated land is planted to wheat and
barley, 23 percent to spring sown crops, including cotton, melons, sugar
beet, vegetables, and chick peas, 15 percent to orchards and vineyards,
and 8 percent to alfalfa. On dry-farmed land, wheat and barley account
for 95 percent of the area planted each year. A black variety of chick
pea and small plots of melons are the only spring crops grown without
irrigation.
3.12      The water resources of the area consisting of groundwater, three
perennial streams and a number of intermittent streams, are now ineffi-
ciently exploited. Groundwater exploitation has been primarily by the
ancient system of ghanats whereby a tunnel on a very flat slope is con-
structed so as to intercept the groundwater and develop what is essentially
an artificial spring. The ghanats show an immediate response to recharge
of the groundwater and consequently their greatest flow is in the winter
and spring months when the water demand for producing crops is the least.
Diversions of surface flows are made from the local streams to fields
enclosed with dikes. The fields are flooded to the extent water is avail-
able up to the height of the surrounding dike. This practice frequently
results in over-irrigation at the time water is available.
3.13      Land preparation is done by wooden plow drawn by oxen. Wheat and
barley seed is broadcast and plowed under. Cereals put under irrigation



are sown in basins between ridges which are then flooded until the soil is
soaked. Other field crops are irrigated the same -.way except that they are
often planted in rows and the initial irrigations are spread in furrows.
The very rough seed beds result in irregular application of water and cause
most fields to have extremely uneven germinations poor stand, ragged appear-
ance and low crop yields.
3.14      Orchards are irrigated only by surface water diversions. Dikes of
about 1 meteE high are built around the orchards to form enclosures of about
100 to 150 m . The basins are flooded to capacity during irrigation with
the trees and vines left standing in water for several days until the water
soaks into the soil.
3.15      Improved seeds, chemical fertilizers, manures, and pest control
are not employed. The prevailing primitive cultural and irrigation prac-
tices result in very low yield for all crops. The average gross value of
crops produced under pre-project farming was about US$30 per ha on dry-
farmed land and about US$140 per ha on irrigated land (Annex 3).
Marketing and Transportation
3.16      Most of. the food production of the project area is consumed in
the villages. The small quantities of surpluses are marketed locally or in
Tehran. The project area supplies about one-third of the raw wool pro-
cessed in a mill at Ghazvin. The small amount of fine quality cotton grown
in the area is sent to a gin in Ghazvin. Six small factories processing
dried fruits and nuts in the toim of Ghazvin normally buy from farmers in
the project area. A sugar beet refinery, located 20 kan south of Ghazvin,
has just started operation and will have capacity to process anticipated
future production from the area for a number of years.
3.17      The area is traversed by the Tehran-Ghazvin-Tabriz railway which
links Iran with Europe via Turkey. The area is served by three improved
highways with a fourth being constructed. Only lirmited second class roads
and trails link the villages of the area. The Government of Iran, assisted
through IBRD Loan No.411 IRN, has completed the planning of an adequate
road network for the area consisting of about 370 lm of improved roads.
The engineering for this road system has been completed and construction
work is underway.
IV. THE PROJECT
Definition
4.01      The Project is a first stage of a 20-year agricultural develop-
ment program for the Ghazvin area. This first stage includes development
to the beginning of 1972 that can be accomplished with the use of local
water resources. The next stage of the Ghazvin development program would
bring into the Ghazvin area a part of the flow of the Taleghan River.



- 6 -
4.02      The Project would provide water for irrigation of 33,600 ha of new
land, including 3,400 ha of deciduous orchards and 900 ha of vineyards
(Annex 4). In high elevation areas where new water supplies cannot be de-
veloped from local sources, the Project would provide for development of
poultry and sheep breeding farms.
4.03      The project works and goods to be financed include deep wells,
pumps and adjacent reservoirs, collecting galleries (para. 4.08)y local
stream diversions, village domestic water supply facilities, orchard estab-
lishment, land preparation, canal network, vehicles, tractors and mechanized
farm equipment, repair and maintenance center, supply and marketing store-
houses and facilities, and establishment of a training center, nursery and
experimental farm. In addition, the Project would provide financing of
consultant services for planning and execution of project works and services,
for market and processing plant feasibility studies and for Taleghan River
studies in connection with second stage development; and the purchase of
spare parts for all equipment and first year inputs of fertilizers and
pesticides to establish field crops.
Water Supply and Development Wlforks
4.04      Water for irrigation would be obtained from two sources, deep
wells and surface water available locally. These sources are already being
used, but the Project would provide improved methods of exploitation.
4-05      Wells and Power for Pumpingo About 235 wells would be drilled to
develop an average of 162 Mm3 per year for project use from the aquifer
underlying the plain. On the first 100 wells the pumps would be diesel
driven. These wells would be converted to electric drive and all additional
wells would be electric driven when transmission lines are completed.  A
230 kv transmission line originating at Safid Rud hydropower plant and tying
into the Tehran network, crosses the northern end of the project area and
would be tapped to supply the project area. The electric distribution lines
would be constructed by the Ministry of Water and Power and would not be a
part of the project cost to be financed. During negotiations assurances
were      obtained that transmission lines would be completed as needed for
wells. The diesel engines used initially on the first 100 wells would be
transferred after electric power becomes available to other parts of the
country lacking electric power.
4.06      Slurface Water Development.  The surface streams entering the pro-
ject area are presently diverted by those villages close enough to reach
them. Surface water diversion would be improved by building permanent
diversion dams and consolidating, improving and lining the canals. Infil-
tration areas would be provided to induce recharge to the groundwater
aquifer of surface flows not required to meet current irrigation require-
ments.
4.07      The area draining into the Ghazvin Plain is about 13,000 km2.
The total surface inflow to the plain was determined to be about 180 jf3 for
the year ending in October 1965. A large share of this goes to recharge



- 7 -
the groundwater in the main plain.  In the first stage project, 52 Mm3 of
surface water would be diverted for project use.
4h08      Galleries.  In the peripheral areas, ghanats presently draw from
water tables not connected to the main aquifer underlying the Ghazvin Plain.
These isolated water tables would be exploited by means of galleries con-
sisting of central wells with horizontal tunnels draining radially into the
central well. About 14 Mm3 of water would be thus developed annually.
4o09      Domestic Water Supply. Nearly all villages in the project area
now obtain their domestic water from ghanats or shallow wells. As the pump-
ing of the project deep wells will lower the water table, it is anticipated
that these present sources would go dry. Domestic water supplies then would
be provided from the irrigation wells or a separate small bore deep well.
Water would be pumped into a storage tank at each village and hydrants pro-
vided at the tank where villagers would get water. Storage would be equiv-
alent to one-day's requirement for the village. About 3 Mm3 per year would
be developed to satisfy the requirements for domestic watero
4.l0      Adequacy of Water Supply. The safe yield of the main aquifer
underlying the Ghazvin Plain is estimated to be about 280 Mm3 per year.
Certain deep wells serving private mechanized farms and private holdings
will continue in production and would withdraw about 94 Mm3 annually and
domestic use will require 3 Mm3n Government regulations have been imposed
to restrict further private exploitation of the groundwiater. An estimated
21 Mm3 of annual outflow from the plain area is needed to avoid accumulation
of salt in the project area. Thus the groundwater yield available from the
main aquifer for project irrigation use would be about 162 Mm3.  In addition
14 Mm3 of water would be developed by galleries and 52 Mm3 would be obtained
from surface water. This amount (228 Mm3) is adequate to supply the land
proposed for development in the first stage. (See Annex 5 for a more com-
plete discussion of water available, requirements and quality.)
4.11      Water Requirements.  Experimental plots have been established to
determine optimal time and quantity of water applications for various crops
under local conditions. Definitive results are not yet available from
these studies and until sufficient data are available to conclusively de-
monstrate factors strictly applicable to Ghazvin, water requirements have
been projected for various crops by use of the Blaney-Criddle consumptive
use formula. The annual water required to be pumped at the well, consid-
ering the system efficiency and the requirements of crops in the rotation,
would vary from 5,100 m3 per ha for chick peas to 18,000 m3 per ha for
orchards and alfalfa (Annex 5).
4.12      Quality of Water. The groundwater is in general suitable for
irrigation except near the salt marsh. Pumping may have to be restricted
in this area if there is evidence of salt intrusion. Salinity of the sur-
face water floi-is varies, but is mostly influenced by quantity of flow. In
one stream (Khar Rud) high salinity content would restrict its use during
low flow periods.



Agricultural Development
4.13      Agricultural development of villages includes the selection of
land in each village best suited for irrigation, construction of irriga-
tion networks to serve this land, land preparation and leveling where nec-
essary, establishment of orchards and vineyards, improvement of range land
and livestock farming, provision of storage buildings and equipment for
each of eight service districts in the project area, establishument of re-
search and training facilities, and establishment of machine repair centers.
4.14      Selection of Development Areas. Villages would be selected by
the Ghazvin Agriculture Organization (para. 5.04) for development on the
basis of the readiness of villagers to participate and on the need to
achieve a balanced development throughout the project area. Detailed plan-
ning for each village would be carried out sufficiently in advance to meet
construction schedules. In the first stage development of the Ghazvin
area, each shareholding village family wqould be provided with 2.3 to 3.0
ha of irrigated field crop and orchard land (see Annex 6). A part of pre-
sent traditional farming, now supplied water by ghanats, would be replaced
by deep-well irrigation.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government will continue to make arrangements to ensure the nec-
essary cooperation of the villages included in the Project.
4.15      Agricultural Works. The agricultural development would require
numerous minor works including land leveling, preparation of 'land for first
crops with some deep plowing involved, irrigation canals and drainage
ditches. The major effort of the agricultural development would be the
planning and implementation of improved crop rotations and practices,
proper irrigation water applications, adequate in.puts of fertilizer, im-
proved plant and seed varieties, and use of insecticides.
4.16      Livestock and RM   _ Improvpment. Range and livestock development
would be int%e-grated with the d-velj,naent of irrigation farming. Natural
pastures which are now much depleted by over-grazing would be improved by
reseeding, fertilization, and controlled grazing. Range improvement would
be undertaken on about 5,500 ha. Supplemental fodder crops would be pro-
duced on irrigated land in rotation with other crops which would provide
supplemental livestock fead as well as having an added beneficial effect
on soil fertility. This livestock program would be given particular em-
phasis in the northern district where 38 villages would not be supplied
with water by project facilities.
4.17      Agricultural Services. The Ghazvin Agriculture Organization
would establish separate services to maintain vehicles, tractors and heavy
farm equipment, to carry out mechanized land cultivation in the initial
stages of the Project, to provide major farm inputs in kind to the vil-
lages and to carry out marketing services (para. 5.05).
4.18      Nursery and Experimental Farms. A 35 ha orchard tree nursery
has been established and for it both local and imported root stocks and



- 9 -
scion woods (grafting branches or buds) would be used. Two experimental
farms covering 47 ha have been established and the Project would provide
consultant services for planning and supervising practical field experi-
ments on various field crops.
4.19      Taleghan River Studies. The necessary studies and the preparation
of a feasibility report would be undertaken by consultants to bring water from
the Taleghan River to supplement the water developed under this Project and
provide supplies adequate for the further development of the Ghazvin Plain.
Execution of Work
4.20      The Government of Iran would continue to employ TAHAL (Water Plan-
ning) Ltd of Tel Aviv, Israel, to act as consultants for all stages of de-
velopment for the Ghazvin Development Project, These consultants have been
engaged on the Project for about three -years and their performance has been
satisfactory. Experts in many fields of competency would be necessary to
provide the capability for carrying out the work, supervision of local em-
ployees and to provide the training for Iranian personnel (see Annexes 7
and 8 for categories and numbers of specialists). The consultants would
bring in experts in the various fields as necessary to carry out the work
(para. 5.03). An exceptionally large number of consultants are being em-
ployed in order to obtain maximum results in the shortest possible time and
at the same time provide essential on-job training for a nuclei of Iranian
personnel to carry out additional projects, of which this is an initial
pilot undertaking. All civil works are of a small scale nature and would
be done by force account or through competitive bidding by small contractors.
For details on anticipated progress of the work, see Annex 4.
Cost Estimates
4.21      The summary breakdown of the estimated total cost of the Project
of US$51.3 equivalent is given below (for details see Annex 9):
Local Currency   Foreign Exchange   Total
Cost           Component
- US$ Million -
Civil works                             11.6               4.9          16.5
Agricultural development,
equipment and supplies                 9.3              11.9          21.2
Engineering and consultant services      3.1               7.7          10.8
Sub-total                          24.0              24.5          48.5
Interest during construction              -                2.8           2.8
Total                              24.0              27.3          51.3
* Interest on proposed Bank loan for 5-year construction period at 6 percent
per annum.



- 10 -
The foreign exchange component of US$27.3 million is based on the estimates
of direct imports, consultant services and interest during construction of
US$22.0 million and an estimate of the imputed foreign exchange content of
civil works and locally procured goods of US$5.3 million.
4.22      The estimates of civil works are based on costs experienced to
date. They include a contingency allowance of 15"percent to cover mainly
physical contingencies. Price increases are expected to be small during the
period of construction due to the improving efficiency of the contracting
industry and to the stable price level of the country. The price of building
materials has, in fact, declined slightly over the past 5 years. For agri-
cultural development, equipment, supplies and some services, a contingency
allowance of about 12 percent has been included to cover price increases
during the period of procurement. No contingencies have been allowed for
engineering and other consultant services as the major contract for such ser-
vices has already been signed. The cost estiimates are considered realistic.
Financing
4.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million would cover the foreign
exchange cost of consultant services, interest during construction and part
of the direct imports as well as part of the imputed foreign exchange costs
of civil works and locally procured goods (see Annex 10). The balance of
project costs (US$29.3 million) would be met by Government budget allocations.
4.24      The expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed
Bank loan, would be approximately as follows:
Year                 First    Second    Third    Fourth    Fifth     Total
- US$ Million Equivalent -
IBRD Loan             2.8       4.5      4.2       5.0       5.5      22.0
Local Costs           3.9       6.0      5.5       6.6       7.3      29.3
Total                 6.7      10.5       9.7      11.6     12.8      51.3
4.25      From 1964 to September 1967 the Government will have expended on
the Ghazvin area development program approximately 561 million rials for
agricultural works and 607 million rials for water development works, a
total of 1,168 million rials, equivalent to US$15.7 million.   No retroactive
financing of past expenditures would be made from the Bank loan.
4.26      Procurement. All goods financed by the Bank will be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding except for contracts not
large enough to merit international competition. Iranian contractors would
participate without preference in international competitive bidding for
civil works contracts. Iran is rapidly developing its industrial capabili-
ties and should be able to compete with moderate protection on some items of
equipment and materials. These items could include cars, small trucks and
pumps, all of which would be assembled from imported components. Where con-
tracts for locally manufactured items are offered, the local bidder would be
allowed a 15 percent preference. Comparison of bids for these items would
be made without taking into account customs or other similar duties.



- 10 -
The foreign exchange component of US$27.3 million is based on the estimates
of direct imports, consultant services and interest during construction of
US$22.0 million and an estimate of the imputed foreign exchange content of
civil works and locally procured goods of US$5.3 million.
4.22      The estimates of civil works are based on costs experienced to
date. They include a contingency allowance of 15 percent to cover mainly
physical contingencies. Price increases are expected to be small during the
period of construction due to the improving efficiency of the contracting
industry and to the stable price level of the country. The price of building
materials has, in fact, declined slightly over the past 5 years. For agri-
cultural development, equipment, supplies and some services, a contingency
allowance of about 12 percent has been included to cover price increases
during the period of procurement. No contingencies have been allowed for
engineering and other consultant services as the major contract for such ser-
vices has already been signed. The cost estimates are considered realistic.
Financing
4.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million would cover the foreign
exchange cost of consultant services, interest during construction and part
of the direct imports as well as part of the imputed foreign exchange costs
of civil works and locally procured goods (see Annex 10). The balance of
project costs (US$29.3 million) would be met by Government budget allocations.
4.24      The expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed
Bank loan, would be approximately as follows:
Year                 First    Second    Third    Fourth    Fifth    Total
- US$ Million Equivalent -
IBRD Loan             2.8       4.5      4.2       5.0      5.5      22.0
Local Costs           3.9       6.0      5         6.6      7.3      29.3
Total                 6.7      10.5      9.7      11.6     12.8      51.3
4.25      From 1964 to September 1967 the Government will have expended on
the Ghazvin area development program approximately 561 million rials for
agricultural works and 607 million rials for water development works, a
total of 1,168 million rials, equivalent to US$15.7 million. No retroactive
financing of past expenditures would be made from the Bank loan.
4.26      Procurement. All goods financed by the Bank will be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding except for contracts not
large enough to merit international competition. Iranian contractors would
participate without preference in international competitive bidding for
civil works contracts. Iran is rapidly developing its industrial capabili-
ties and should be able to compete with moderate protection on some items of
equipment and materials. These items could include cars, small trucks and
pumps, all of which would be assembled from imported components. Where con-
tracts for locaIly manufactured items are offered, the local bidder would be
allowed a 15 percent preference. Comparison of bids for these items would
be made without taking into account customa or other similar duties.



h.27      Disbursement of Loan. Disbursements for imported equipment and
spare parts, materials, and consulting services would be against evidence
of payment. Disbursement for civil works would be on a percentage of ac-
tual expenditures. Disbursements for minor imported items purchased in
Iran and for items procured from local manufacturers would be limited to 70
percent of their total cost which is the estimated foreign exchange component.
VO  ORGANIZATTON AND MANAGEMEINT
5.01      The Government has established a 5hazvin High Council for the
overall direction and coordination of work on the Project. The Council
would consist of three permanent members representing the Managing Director
of the Plan Organization, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of
Water and Power. Other Ministries of the Government would have represen-
tation on the Council whenever their functions are involved, e.g. roads,
rural sanitation, education and industrialization. The Plan Organization
would exercise budgetary control over the funds required for the Project.
5.02      The Council would have a permanent Secretary who would serve as
Project Manager. The Secretary would supervise and coordinate the work on
the Project on a full-time basis.  The Government has agreed that the
execution of the works by the Ghazvin Water Division and the Ghazvin Agri-
culture Development Organization will be under the coordination and super-
vision of the Project Mbnager (see Annex 11 and Chart). While it would be
desirable for the Project Manager to have overall responsibility for the
execution of the Project, this could not be arranged within the present
legal framework of the two ministries involved in carrying out the Project.
5.03      The Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization and the Ghazvin
Water Division would be assisted during the project construction period
by a firm of qualified consultants and would maintain a staff of engineers,
agricultural specialists and extension workers (see Annexes 7 and 8 for
present and proposed staffing). During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that a consulting firm would continue to be employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to help plan and supervise construction
and assist in the management of the Project. Assurances were also obtained
that the Government will consult with the Bank before making key management
appointments to the posts of: (i) Secretary to the High Council; (ii) Head
of Ghazvin Agriculture Organization; and (iii) Head of Ghazvin Water
Division.
Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization
5.04      The Ministry of Agriculture, under existing legislative authority,
has established an organization in Ghazvin Ikown as the Ghazvin Agriculture
Organization and given it sufficient powers to carry out all agricultural
work including the making of agreements with villages. This Organization



- 12 -
is responsible for the planning, construction, operation and maintenance
of all agricultural aspects of the Project including irrigation planning.
In addition to the project construction and operating functions, the re-
sponsibility of this Organization would cover approval of expenditures
within allocated budgets and personnel recruitment and practices. The
Organization, however, needs to be strengthened by being authorized to
offer better employment contracts to qualified Iranian personnel and given
greater freedom of making expenditures within its allocated budget. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the Ghazvin Agriculture
Organization will function under powers and regulations satisfactory to the
Bank, such powers and regulations to become effective either two months
after the effective date of the loan, or before US$3 million has been with-
drawn from the loan account, whichever comes first.
5.05      The Agriculture Organization would deal with the farmers through
the village headman for each village. To handle specific functions, three
separate branches or services of the Organization would be established,
namely: (i) Supply and Marketing; (ii) Land Cultivation; and (iii) Repair
and Maintenance. Each of the services would have a headquarters' staff at
Ghazvin and each would have eight field establishments for executing work
in the eight administrative districts which are planned for the project
area. These separate services would be operated as soon as possible on a
self-supporting non-profit basis until they are transferred to cooperative
or private ownership. The Government intends to transform these services
as soon as feasible, into cooperative undertakings or reorganize them into
private enterprises.
5.06      The Supply and 1Marketing Service wTould provide timely and effi-
cient marketing of the agricultural products from the project area and
would supply the purchased inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, seeds, etc.)
at lowest market prices. Central and district warehouses and village
stores would be built for handling supplies and for storage of farm produce.
Dairy products would be processed through a central plant located at
Ghazvin. Packaging and grading would be carried out to ensure standards of
marketed goods. Sales would be made to existing wholesalers, processing
plants or exporters. The Supply and Marketing Service would also be re-
sponsible for the transportation of purchased inputs and all farm produce
and serve as the financial clearing house for the farmers and villages.
The supply functions of this service would be a substitute for most of
the production credit advances needed by farmers. The cost of these in-
puts, plus interest and handling charges, would be deducted from the sales
of the farmers' products.
5.07      The Land Cultivation Service would be responsible for all mech-
anized land cultivation and for the establishment of orchards and the
supervision of farmers for maintenance until the fruit bearing stage.
Heavy equipment would be maintained at a central depot in Ghazvin and
light machinery would operate from eight district branches in the project
area. Each village would be charged for work performed on a full-cost
basis, including interest on capital and depreciation, Cooperatives or
private enterprises will be responsible for mechanized cultivation after
the development stage.



- 13 -
5,08      The Repair and Maintenance Service would take care of tractors
and agricultural machinery and the vehicleso A central garage would be
maintained at Glazvin and a mobile repair unit would handle repairs that
could be carried out in the field.
Ghazvin Water Division
5.09      Under Iranian law, the Ministry of }Water and Power is charged with
the responsibility for the development and control of the use of all water
resources of the country and has successfully carried out other major pro-
jects. In keeping with this established responsibility, the Ministry of
Water and Power, through its Tehran Regional Water Board, has established
a Ghazvin Water Division with such powers as are necessary to carry out the
water development aspects of the Project. This Division would have the
responsibility for the planning and construction of water supply works,
control of water use, operation of wells and water supply system down to
the village reservoirs, and for the sale of water.
Credit and Banking Operations
5.10      The Agriculture Organization intends to employ the existing Agri-
cultural Bank (Ghazvin Branch) as its agent for financial operations out-
side regular budgetary funds, The Agricultural Bank would provide short-
term bank credit for the supply and marketing services, if needed, in
addition to continuing with its regular financing of mechanized farms and
villages in the project area. During negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained from the Government that adequate funds would be made available to
meet the requirements of the Agriculture Organization, its services and
the Ghazvin Water Division, and that adequate bank credit would be made
available to meet the needs of the farmers. The bulk of the annual pro-
duction credit needs of the farmer would be provided in "kind" through
the Marketing and Supply Service, as indicated above (para. 5.o6). The
agricultural cooperatives would provide additional credit to farmers (see
Annex 12).
Technical Services and Training
5.11      Technical services such as extension work in orchards and field
crop cultivation, plant protection, fertilizer application, soil and water
conservation measures, guidance in rearing of livestock and veterinary
care would be provided directly by the Ghazvin Agriculture Organization
(see Annex 8 for details on required personnel). No charges would be made
to farmers for these services. The Organization would also undertake
specialized crop fertilizer and water use trials on selected research farms.
These services would require a staff of highly qualified specialists.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Agr-iculture Organi-
zation will carry out training so as to attract and maintain an adequate
staff of qualified personnel as indicated in Anmex 8 and will submit its
proposed training program to tlhe Bank for review within 3 months after
the signing of the loan.



- 14 -
VI, FINANCIAL RESULTS
6.01      Most investments required for the full development of the Project
are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1971. Some minor investments
for supply and marketing services would be required through 1972 and for
orchard establishment and agricultural development through 1975. The land
cultivation service would require small amounts of investment for replace-
ment and renewals throughout the life of the Project (see Annex 13).
6.02      In the Project, involving as it does a complete transformation
of subsistence farming to modern commercial-oriented agriculture, the
Government would absorb some of the social and overhead costs. These would
include preliminary studies, extension and research services, training and
health activities, domestic water supplies, and some administrative costs.
The farmers would pay for all the operation and maintenance costs and as
much of the interest and amortization as they reasonably can on the direct
investment in irrigation water supplies and field crop and orchard develop-
ment.
6.03      The farmers should be able to repay annual capital costs reason-
ably chargeable to them beginning in about 1974. For details on projected
cash flow requirements and estimated repayments by farmers, see Annex 13.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
6.04      The annual operating cost of the water supply, land cultivation
and marketing and supply services is estimated as follows (see Annex 13
for 1972 and onwards):
1967     1968     1969     1970     1971
- US$ Million -
Water Division                    0.20     0.40     0.65     0.80     o.85
Land Cultivation Service         0.48     0,63      0.69     0.75     0.79
Marketing and Supply Service     0.34      0.54     0.80     o.96     1.17
Total                            1,02     1.57      2.14     2.51     2.81
The operation and maintenance cost of the Water Division would level off
in about 1971. The annual running costs of the Land Cultivation Service
would become about two-thirds of the 1971 level after the com,pletion of
all agricultural development work in 1974/75. The annual cost of operating
the Marketing and Supply Service would increase as the agricultural output
(principally fruit) of the Project increases through about 1976/77.
6.05      During the development period of the Project, a part of the an-
nual expenditures of the IrWater Division and other services, shown above,
are development costs for the establishment of orchards and improved field
crop production. All operation and maintenance costs of the various ser-
vices associated with the current crop production would be collected from



- 15 -
the farmers annLally. The farmers would be able to pay on a current basis
the full costs reasonably chargeable to them after their new crops and
orchards reach full production, beginning in about 1974 (Annex 13). The
costs of the land cultivation service, the marketing service and the cost
of inputs furnished in kind by the marketing and supply service, would be
collected from the farmers as an offset against the returns from crops sold
on their behalf.
Water Charges
6.06      The Ghazvin Water Division would establish water charges at a
unit rate per cubic meter. The unit rates would cover all O&M costs asso-
ciated with the production of both irrigation and domestic water, and that
part of interest and amortization on irrigation water supply works that
would be within the capacity of the farmer to pay from his annual net crop
returns. During negotiations assurances were obtained that water charges
would be determined annually in accordance with the principles set forth
above. Charges would need to be kept at a level that would leave the
farmer an incentive to actively participate in the Project. Bearing this
in mind, and the need to recover from the farmer the cost of other project
services, the water rates could not likely be set sufficiently high enough
to recover annual investment charges and O&NI costs associated with the pro-
duction of water until about 1975 (Annex 13). Water charges would be col-
lected from farmers through the clearing arm of the Supply and Marketing
Service of the Agriculture Organization (para. 5.06).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would cause a major transformation in the agricultural
economy of a large part of the Ghazvin area from primarily self-subsistence
farming to market-oriented agricultural production. M'ajor improvements
would be brought about in the metlods of irrigation, cultivation practices
and marketing. Immediate benefits would accrue to the farmers but the full
potential of increased farm incomes would tace about 10 years. The gross
increased farm output would then reach a level of about US$27 million an-
nually (Annex 14), The average annual net farm income is expected to rise
from US$178 per family to US$525 or a total of about US$16 million for the
Project. Farm families would have more food for home consumption and their
cash incomes would be about US$425 per year (see Annex 15 for budgets of
typical farms to be developed under the Project). A strong demand is anti-
cipated for all increased agricultural production from the Project.
7.02      Considerable secondary and indirect benefits may be expected to
result from the Project. A major secondary benefit would result from the
processing of the increased farm products. The expanded agricultural
production and processing industries would further provide a stimulus for
the expansion of a number of service industries and construction activity.
Another beneficial effect to the economy of the country would be the gains



- 16 -
or savings in foreign exchange. Some of the products from the Project,
particularly fruit, would have good export possibilities and some of the
increased production (wheat and sugar) would replace current imports.
7.03      The direct agricultural benefits of the Project would result in
an internal rate of return to the economy of about 10 percent (see Annex
16 for the costs and benefit streams on which this rate of return is based).
In the calculation of the internal rate of return, a project life of 25
years was assumed, as this was determined to be the effective life of major
works. The cost stream includes all original investments and replacements
associated with the first stage development during the life of the Project.
All cost of operation and maintenance of water supply, land cultivation,
supply and marketing services, and the cost of management and extension
services were also included in the cost stream. The benefits taken in the
calculation of the internal rate of return were the annual gross value of
increased output at the farm level, less farm production costs (seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, feed for sheep and poultry, upkeep of draught
animals, etc.) and less the estimated loss in net farm income which would
result as a consequence of the drying up of ghanats by the deep-well ex-
ploitation of groundwater. The cost of farm famil-y labor was not imputed
as there would be no alternative use of such labor in the absence of the
Project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOPI"ENDATIONS
8.01      The Project is a part of the Government's long-range plan to
modernize agricultural development. The approach and techniques for the
Project are sound and would serve as a guide for similar development,
particularly in the Central Iranian Plateau.
8.02      Qualified consultants with wide experience in planning and imple-
menting agricultural development projects have been employed on the Project
for approximately 3 years. Works completed and agricultural development
already achieved show good results and demonstrate that the plans for the
Project are sound. Costs are estimated on the basis of expenditures al-
ready made and are realistic.
8.03      The Project is economically justified and is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$22 million which includes interest during construction of
US$2.8 million. The Borrower would be the Government of Iran and an ap-
propriate term would be 25 years, including six years gracee
8.o4      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the Ministry of Water and Power will complete the construction
of transmission lines as needed for wells (para. 4.05);



- 17 -
(b)   the Government will obtain the necessary written agreements
with villages in ample time to ensure the orderly progression
of project work; (para. 4.14);
(c)   the Government would continue to employ qualified consultants
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to plan and
supervise the implementation and operation of the Project through
1972 and thereafter as necessary (para. 5.03);
(d)   the Government will consult with the Bank before making ke
management appointments and their replacements (para. 5.03);
(e)   the Ghazvin Agriculture Organization will function under powers
and regulations satisfactory to the Bank, such powers and
regulations to become effective either 2 months after the
effective date of the loan or before US$3 million have been
withdrawn from the loan account, whichever comes first (para. 5.O4);
(f)   the Ghazvin Agriculture Organization will carry out training so
as to attract and maintain an adequate staff of qualified per-
sonnel, and will submit its proposed training program to the
Bank for review within 3 months after the signing of the loan
(para. 5.11); and
(g)   charges for water and project services would be adequate to
recover all operation and maintenance costs and as much of the
investment cost as the farmers can reasonably be expected to
pay and still leave sufficient income to provide incentive for
participation in the Project (para. 6.06).
August 25, 1967



ANNEX 1
PROGRESS OF LANID REFOPM IN GHAZZVIM AREA
NOVISBER, 1966
Number of    Number of   Ilumber of
Land Reform Disposition Taken        Villages     Fards 1/     Families
All land rented to farmers              83          5.512        4,504
All land sold to farmers                38          3,858        3,024
Land divided between landlord and
farmers                                 18          1,282          931
Land part rented, sold, or
divided                                 42          4,527        3,732
Land sold by farmers to landlord         3            199          182
Sub-total                         184         15,378       12,373
Mechanized villages retained by
landlords                               17
Land disposal records incomplete        72
TOTAL                                  273
1/   A fard is the local designation of one land/water share right,
usually equal to the amount of land that can be operated by one
family without mechanized power.



ANEX 2
ILADS OF PROJECT AREA CLASSIFIED
ACCORDING TO SUITABILITY FOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL USE
Percentage
Class          Description                      Area        of Total Area
(ha)
I           Land well suited for
irrigation                      68,000             15
II           Land moderatelywell suited
for irrigation                 123,400             28
III           Land fairly well suited for            1
irrigation                     118,600 _           27
IV           Land where irrigation and
cultivation are mostly un-
economical and only special
vegetable or forage crops
can be cultivated in some
areas                           52,400             12
V           Land requiring special manage-         2/
ment under irrigation           69,400 -           15
VI           Non-irrigable land              11,400              3
TOTAL                                         443,200            100
Source: Feasibility Report, Volume Three, TAHAL (Water Planning) Ltd.,
Israel.
1/   Includes 43,800 ha of saline soils that would require special treat-
ment and management practices.
2/   All of this class is saline.



ANNEK 3
PRESENT AGRICULTUIAL PRODUCTION
OF PROJECT AREA FARIS
Total      Unit                           Gross
Crop               Area    Yield    Production  Price     Total Gross Value      Value
per ha
(ha)  (tons/ha)   (tons)   (Rls/kg) (Rls Mil.) (US$ 1MJil.)  (US$)
Orchards           8,028     5.0      40,140      3,5     140.5       1.9         237
Irrigated wheat
- grain         22,300    1.0       22,300      6.7     149.4       2eO        103
- straw              -    1.0       22,300     10       22.3       0.3
Dry-farmed wheat
- grain         51,734    0.3       15,520      6.7     104.0       1.4         31
- straw              -    0.3       155520     10       15.5       0.2
Irrigated barley
- grain          6,690   10         6,690      5.2      34.8       0,5          0
- straw              -    1.0        6,690      1a0       6.7       0.1         9
Dryr-farmed barley
- grain         22,300    0,3        6,690      5.2      34.8       0,5
- straw              -    0.3       6,690       1.0       6.7       0.1         27
Pulses
- grain          4,237    0.3        1,271     12.5      15.9       0,2         50
- straw              -    0.2          847      1o0       0.8      001
A%falfa            4,683    4cO       18d,732     2.0      37c5       0,5         107
Sugar beets        2,899    12,0      34h788     12       41o. 0.6               225
- tops               -    5.0       14,495     05        7f2       0.1
Cotton             4,460    O08        3,568     15.0      53,5      07          157
i~Ielons           3,568   12.0      42,816      1.3       55.7       0.7        196
Vegetables         1,561    1500      23,415      1.6      37.5       0.5         320
TOTAL             132,460     -            -       -      764.5       10.2         77
Source: Feasibility Report, Volume Three, TAIAL (Water Planning) Ltd., Israel
1/   This table does not include data for the mechanized farms in the area as
tnese farms would not be included in the Project.



ANTICIPATED PROGRESS ON EXECUTION OF PROJECT
1965      1966      1967      1968      1969      1970      1971
Area brought under irrigation
development for: (ha)
Field Crops:
Annual increment                   550     2,555     4,508     4,967     5,300     5,300     6,090
Accumulative                         -     3,105     7,613    12,580    17,880    23,180    29,270
Orchards:
Annual increment                    88      '844       377       249       600       600       653
Accumulative                         -       932     1,309     1,558     2,158     2,758     3,411
Vineyards:
Annual increment                     -         -         -         -       650       241         -
Accumulative                         -         -         -         -         -       891       891
TOTAL:
Annual increment                   638     3,399     4,885     5,216     6,550     6,141     6,743
Accumulative                         -     4,037     8,922    14,138    20,688    26,829    33,572
Range Improvement (ha)
Annual increment                       -         -       500     1,000     2,000     2,000         -
Accumulative                           -         -         -     1,500     3,500     5,500     5,500
Poultry Farms Established (No.)
Annual increment                       -         -        40         -       300       750       310
Accumulative                           -         -         -        40       340     1,090     1,9',O
NiOT,: Data are entered in the year development starts. Investment on orchard development muist continue
for approximately 7 years.  Investment on field crop and range land will continue over - perioc'
of three to five rears.



ANNEX 
Page 1
WATER SU RIY  REQUIREMENTS AND QUALITY
WATER SUPPLY
The water resources to be developed for the Project consist of grounid
water and surface water from three perennial streams and a number of inter-
mittent streams,
These water supplies are exploited under present conditions. Howeverj
such exploitation is inefficient and fails to make maximum use of the available
water.
Ground water exploitation has been primarily by the ancient system of
ghanats whereby a tunnel on a very flat slope is constructed to intercept the
ground wzater and develop what is essentially an artificial spring. The ghanats
show an immediate response to recharge of the ground water and consequently
flow is greatest in the winter and spring months when it is of the least value
for producing crops.
Diversions of surface flows are made from the local streams, when
water is available, on to fields enclosed with dikes up to about one meter
high.  The fields are flooded to the extent water is available and the height
of the surrounding dike will permit. This results in over irrigation at the
time water is available and is a wasteful use of water.
Ground Water
Deep wells are proposed to exploit the ground water aquifer under
the main Ghazvin Plain and would supplant the present ghanats. The consultantE
established a network for observing 230 wells and 44 ghanats. Ground water
elevations and discharge are pericdically measured. These observations were
supplemented with pumping tests on selected wells. Ground water maps were pre-
pared and the plain area then divided into 10 hydrologic strips. The strips
were chosen in such a way that the boundaries were ncrmal to the ground water
contours and the interflow between strips would be minimal, From the aquifer
characteristics as determined by the observation and pumping test program in-
flow and outflow from each strip was computed. A hydrologic balance was then
established for each strip using all factors involved such as ghanat flows and
withdrawal from wells in the strip, change in ground water storage and inflow
and outflow to determine the replenishment for each strip,
For the year for which sufficient data was available to compute the
hydrologic balance the figures are as follows:
Mm3
Withdrawal:
Wells          (175-5)            275.3
Ghanats        ( 99-8)
Change in storage                 - 65.9
Outflow to salt marsh               71.9
Yield                              281.3



ANNEX 5
Page 2
In order to avoid salt build up on the Project, a positive outflow
to the salt marsh must be maintained. This requirement is estimated at 213
Mm3 leaving about 260 Mm3 per annum as the appraisal of what may be taken from
the aquifer as a safe yield. In drier cycles when recharge will be lowqer,
less water must be pumped or the ground water reservoir red-ced. In wetter
cycles more water can be withdrawn or the ground water storage can be allowed
to increase.
The average deep well to be drilled in the main aquifer is 155 meters
deep and is started as an 18" hole with 16", casing and is completed with a 12"
slotted casing below the water table, The wells are not gravel packed except
those in which sand is found in quantity below the water table.   In most in-
stances, a natural sorting of material occurs when the well is developed and
the gravel pack is found unnecessary. The average yield per well is 275 m3
per hour (2.70 cfs).
Existing ghanats in the peripheral foothill zone area derive their
water from perched water tables and are not influenced by the ground water
levels of the main Ghazvin Plain. As is common to all ghanats the flow does
not conform to the demand pattern. Consequently, much of the yield is not
beneficially used. The project plan proposes construction of a central well
into which horizontal collecting galleries would feed as a more efficient means
of exploiting the shallow perched aquifers. Discharge during periods when
water is not needed would thus be avoided. It is anticipated the galleries
would make the water now derived from ghanats available at times when it could
be better used.
Surface Water
The total catchment area flowing into the Ghazvin Plain is 13,000 km1i
The three principal rivers flowing into the plain are K'nar Rud, Abhar Rud the
the Haji Arab. Staff gauges or recorders have been installed by the consultants
to measure the surface water flows of these streams and some of tne smaller
Lributaries on the north side. Most records are of quite short duration as the
earliest stations were established in 19063.
The annual average discharges starting in October 1964 are measured
or estimated as follows:
yn3
Khar Rud                         52 .4
Abhar Rud                        33.2
Haji Arab                          7.3
Northern Region Perennial         52.7
Northern Region Intermittent      34.9
Total Surface Inflow             180,5



AhNNEX :5
Page
The above appraisal of surface water inflow by the consultants may be
on the high side. However, in the first stage of the Project only 52 Mm3
annually is taken as the figure of usable surface water for project purposes.
This is about equal to the consumptive use now experienced on lands flood irri-
gated by surface diversions. Water not utilized by the Project for direct di-
version would recharge the main aquifer supplying the Project and become a part
of the ground water supply. An error in appraisal of surface water inflow thus
has little effect on the overall appraisal of the project's supply.
Private 'Jells
Villages which the landlord converted to a mechanized farm were not
subject to subdivision under land reform and are not part of the Project. In
the case of villages which have gone through the second phase of land reform,
the landlord was allowed to retain a specific portion of the village land.
On such private holdings and for domestic water use, there are at present (1966)
some 150 deep wells drawing 125 Mm3 annually and 120 shallow pit wells drawring
about 50 MM3 which have been privately constructed. Government regulations
have been imposed to restrict further private exploitation of the ground watere
It is anticipated that under project conditions there would be a general lower-
ing of the water table in the area, and both the ghanats and the shallow pri-
vate wells would dry up. The project plan contemplates that about 25 percent
of the existing private wells would be incorporated in the Project. The esti-
mate of the water to be used over the project life by the remaining private
and domestic wells is 97 Mml annually.
Water Available to Project
The water available for project use is thus as follows:
Mxm3
Total Ground Water Available Main Aquifer     280
Less: Private wells continued use
and domestic consumption         97
Required outflow to salt marsh   21    ll3
Remainder - Ground l.Water Available
to Project                            162
Surface Water                                      52
Galleries                                          1I
Total                                             228



Page 4
WATER REQUIREMEITS
The consultants established experimental plots on which they vary
amounts and time of water application for particular crops from that considered
optimal. Definitive results are not yet available from these studies and until
sufficient data are available to conclusively demonstrate factors strictly
applicable to Ghazvin, water requirements are projected on use of Blaney-Criddle
consumptive use formula. Climatic data from Buin (see Mlap for location) were
used as it was believed that station would give more conservative results and
indicate a larger consumptive use thus being on the safe side. Rainfall during
the irrigation season was disregarded as being largely ineffective. Consumptive
use was computed >'or each crop and varied from 313 mm (12t") for chick peas with
a gro-wing season of 76 days, April to June, to 1,073 mm (42") for alfalfa w;th
a growing,season computed fron March 15 to November 1   Field application eff- -
ciency which would vary with each crop was evaluated at 65 to 75 percent. Con-
veyance losses awerp considered as relatively small since the distance from wfe-.
to field is relatively short. Overall system efficiency is considered about
55 to 65 percent. The water required at the pump, per hectare per crop; varies
from 5,100 m3 for chick peas to 18,000 m3 for orchards and alfalfa.
The cropping pattern and size of farm vary for different types-of
farms. The average water requirement per farm is approximately 16,000 m)3 per
year (see Annex 6).
QUALITY OF WATER
Salinity of water in the pireatic aquifer increases in the direction
of the salt marsh.  The total dissolved solid content of the water is about
659 ppm (parts per million) in the northern ard western parts of the project
areas but it increases to as much as 2,450 ppm in the salt marsh area. The
sodium absorption ratio varies from about 6 to over 15. The only areas where
quality of the ground water may be a deterrent to project development would be
in the vicinity of the salt marsh. Continued observations and possible restric-
tions on pumping would be necessary in the event there is evidence of salt in-
trusion. Salirity of the surface water flows varies but is mostly influenced
by quantity of flow. In one stream (Khar Rud), high salinity content would re-
strict its use during low flow periods. A number of saline springs enter this
stream in its upper reaches and when the discharge is low, total dissolved
solids may reach 2,700 ppm. W   hn flows are high this drops to 900 ppm.



CHARACTERISTICS OF PROPOSED FARM TYPES, NUMBER OF FAMILIES TO BENEFIT AND WATER REQUIREMENTS
Type of farm (all data are per farm)
Total,
I t e m                                                                                              all
A          A1         B          B,         C          Ci         D         fams
No. of families               10,121        747        841        100        902        767        475       13,9953
Percent of total families         72.5        5.4        6.0        0.7        6.5        5.5        3.4
Irrigated area, ha I
Orchards                         0.30       0.50        -          -          -          -          -       3,111
Vineyards                         -          -         1.00       0.50        -          -          -         891
Field crops                      1.20       1.20       0.78       1.60       1.80       1.65       1.80    17,565
Fallow (in rotation)             0.80       0.80       0.52      040        1.20       1.10       1.20    11,705
Total                         2.30       2.50       2.30       2.50       3.00       2.75       3.00    33s,572
Unirrigated pasture, ha            5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00       5.00    67,965
Total area, ha                7.30       7.50       7030       7.50       8.00       7.75       8.00   101s537
Sheep, improved stock No.          9          9          8          9         12          9         12      128s867
Water allocation, cum.
per farm                      15,855     19,465     19,285     16,690     16,980     14355     17,470        227.5
(mm3)
Source: Ghazvin Development Project Feasibility Report for First Stage, December 1966, TAHAL (Water Planning) Ltd.
Note:    A and Al-type farms have orchards, B and Bl-type farms have vineyards, and C and D farms have field crops
only but differ in crop area, livestock numbers and water requirements.
CY\



AiNNIq 7
PERSO'INEL ENGAGED 0 GHAZVIN DEVELOPDENT PROJECT
AS OF NOVEBIERB, 1966
Class                                                         Number
Consultants: 2
Supervisory                                     10
Civil Engineers                                 2
Well Experts                                     3
Agricultural Experts                            14
Irrigation Experts                             12
Agricultural Machinery Experts                   5
Accounting Specialist                            1
Extension Specialist                            1
Hydrologists                                    2
Surveyors                                       4
Administrative                                  2
Sub-total                                                56
Iranian Personnel:
Engineers 2/                                   54
Technicians 3/ 4/                              54
Well Operators -                               190
Tractor Drivers 4/                            103
Car and Truck Drivers                          60
Wdorkshop Mechanics                             47
Office Administrative Clerks and Draftsmen     109
Sub-total                                               617
TOTAL                                                   673
1/   TAHAL (Water Planning)Ltd., Israel.
2/   College graduates with BoSc. or MeSc. Degrees.
3/   With education comparable to High School Diploma status.
4/   Farmers (with elementary education).



PKRSONNXL REQUTREKENTS FOR GaAZVTN fl UPflR1T PRnO.TprT
1967 - 1971
Headquarters Staff                            District Level Personnel
m2      )                                  m                                               TA
Description                    4,     o      o      e h                                                        h                 TOTAL /
a             .      S                0 H X      a                            H        0 r  D  X  A
02     d             WHO   ~                      0)     .     r        I4   .'O l     I 
oE a                  -O                         C3                   co A     an ia
Management and Administration
Management & Administration            2      9      7      13      8       39          -      -       6      6      -       12          51
Program, Budget & Finance              1      2      3       8      2       16          -      -       6      -      -        6          22
Engineering                           1       1      2       1      1        6          -      -      -       -      -       -            6
Sub-total                          4      12     12      22     11      61           -      -     12       6      -      1B           79
Planning and Extension
Agricultural Extension               13      23     13       5     23       77          -     30      12      -     21       63         140
Agricultural Field Planning            6     12      6       2     13       39          -      6       -      -      3        9          48
Water & Irrigation Planning          15      32     42       4     43      136          -     28      32     66     94      220         356
Engineering Plans                     1       2      2       -      1        6          -      -       -      -      -        -           6
Sub-total                         35      69     63      11     80     258           -     64     44      66    118     292          550
Operation and Services
Director of Operations                 3      4      6       2       3      18          6       6      -      -      6       18          36
Water Supply                           3      6     13      14     23       59          -       6     12      6      6       30          89
Land Cultivation                      3       5     13      27     24       72          -       -     12     96     18      126         198
Repair & Maintenance                   3      2     17      34       5      61          -       -      -      -      -        -          61
Supply & Marketing                     2      9     17      12     15       55          -      -       5      -      5       10          65
Sub-total                         14      26     66      89     70      265          6     12      29    102     35     184          449
TOTAL                             53    107     141     122    161     584           6     76      85    174    153     494        1,078
Source: Feasibility Report, Volume One, Part II, TAHAL (Water Planning) Ltd., Israel.
1/   This does not include village level employees. At the village level during the 1967-71 period approximately 85 technicians and 170
skilled laborers would be employed for field layout and orchard establishment, about 250 pump operators would be employed until
diesel motors are replaced by electric power, and some 180 unskilled laborers for supply and marketing work until these activities
are taken over by private enterprise and cooperatives.



ESTIM4ATE OF COSTS FOR FIVE T"AR PROJECT
Local              ~~~Foreign Exchange Costs
I t e                                                           19671         1968           1969           19,70          1971           Total           Currency           Direct           Other            Total
Cost             Imports
Civil Works
Water Developmn6t:                                            8                                                                           3.                205.                               1.
Wells584                                                                 7.                                                          1382205.643Vja
Collecting galleries                                        -               -             -18.3                       19.8            38.1             26.9               3.8               7.1.          11.2
Reservoirs and conveyances                                23.2           35.0             -             9.7            9.7            77.6             50.8               6.2             20.6             26.8
Local streams                                               -            4.8.1.         76.8            5.7            6.0           136.9            116.7                -              20.2             20.2
Doseatic aater supply                                      6.9           33.9           33.9           33.9           33.9           11.2.5            27.1.             90.6             24..5          115.1
Irrigation canals                                          8.1           4h1.8          4.7.1          4.7.7          1.6.2          193.9            173.4.               -              20.5            20.5
Poultry fans% buildings                                       5.6             3.2          4.2.0         129.0          173.4.          353.2            318.0                 -              35.2            35.2
Offices and service buildinga                                1.7.2           12.0            5.7           5.7            2.1.           73.0             59.4.                -              13.6            13.6
Village stores                                               10.0            10.0           10.0            9.8            9.8           4.9.6            4.7.1                -               2.5             2.5
Regional packing and siorage faCUiites                        3.2             7.7            7.7           7.6            7.6            33.8             30.0                 -               3.8             3.8
Central dairy plant                                           1.0                                          0.9            0.1.             2.3              2.1                                0.2             0.2
Sub-total                                                163.6          273.1.         223.2          268.3          309.2         1,237.7            873.8             151.1            212.8            363.9
Agricultwral Develops6ht
Orchards                                                  50.6            71.1         109.1.         l1d.1..        168.9           5441..           319.7              153.1             71.3           224..1
yield crops                                               11..8          33.9           35.9           35.9           4.1.1          i61.6             82.2                 -             79.1.            79.4.
Poultry and sheep farma                                    1.5             -            11.1           27.8           30.0            70.1.            4o0.2             20.1.              9.8            30.2
Range itsprovemnt                                          3              7611.                                                                                          2.31.1311
Sub-total                                                 70.6          112.3          171.0          222.4.         254..6          830.9            4.65.5            193.8            171.6            365.1.
Rauipment and Materials for.
Water Division                                            4.3.3           37.5          lJa.5          32.1           32.2           159.6              38.6             119.7              1.3           121.0
Agriculture Organization                                  1.2.8           1.7            1.7            1.7            1.7            4.9.6             5.0              4h1.6               -             4L1.6
Land Cultivation Service                                   7.5           61..8          27.6           25.1            9.0           131..0             8.3             125.7                -125.7
Repair and Maintenance Service                             4..6           1.9            1.9            1.9             -             10.3              1.0                9.3               -              9.3
Supply and Marketing Service                              19.2           15.3           15.3           11.0            7.0            67.8             22.1              4.1.1              4..6           4.5.7
Training Center                                            3              1.1            0.2             --                            4..7             1.5               2.9               0.3             3.2
Sub-total                                                120.8          122.3           61.2           71.8           1.9.9          4.26.0            76.5             34.3.3              6.2           34.9.5
Spare~ Paris and Initial Inputs
Spare parts                                                3.0           10.7           13.0           15.5           16.8            59.0              7.9              51.1                -             51.1
Initial inputs,                                            6.1           13.1           31..3          85.4.         132.1           271.0           l1.1.6             126.1.               -            126.1.
Sub-total                                                  9.1           23.8           1.7.3         100.9          11.8.9          330.0            152.5             177.5                -            177.5
Consultants
Water deve1opment and supply                              11.0            32.1.         26.1.          21..3          20.6           114..7            28.7               86.0               -             86.0
Agricultural developmsent and services                     7.           1091.2         103.0           98.!.         88.7           4T77.1           11973.8 -                                           357.8
Sub-total                                                 88.3           11.1.6        129.1.         123.2          109.3           591.8            11.8.0            4413.8               -            4413.8
Special Projects
Traminig Canter operations                                 9.1.            9.1.          9.1.           9.1.           9.1.           47.0             28.1.             l1..6              1.0O           18.6
Agricultural research                                      LO.            4..0           4..0           4..o           1.0            20.0              8.0               12.0               -             12.0
Market and industrial studies                              4..5           1..5           4..5           1..5           1..5           22.5              6.5               16.0               -16.0
Taleghan River studies                                    33.0           66.0           33.0             --132.0                                       441.0             88.0                -88.0
Sub-total                                                 50.9           83.9           50.9           17.9           17.9           221.5             86.9             130.6               4.o0          134..6
MTAL                                                          503.3           757.3          683.0          801..5         889.8         3,637.9          1,803.2           1,1.10.1           394..6        1,834..7
Onterest during construction                                    0.9            29.0          4.6.1.         62.5           71.2           210.0                -210.0                             -210.0
GRAND IOTA-L                                                  501..2          786.3          729.1.         867.0          961.0         3,81..9          1,803.2           1,650.1            391..6        2,01.7..
Equivisnei   n 111$ million                                     6.7            10.5            9.7           11.6           12.8            51.3             24..0             22.0              5.3            27.3r
o  Data are for Iranian years beginning March 21.     The costs sho., for 1967 do not -nclude an estimated 235 million      ~als (11113.1 million) for expenditures Maroh 21 through August,.



AIN21: 10
Page   L
CONSULTANT SERVICES AND LIST OF MATERIALS TO BE IMPORTED
Foreign Exchange
Item                                Quantity                 Cost.
(Rials Milion)
Consultant Services for:
Water development                 41.4 man-years             64.3
Water supply services             140 man-years             21.8
Agricultural development         198.2 man-years            307.6
Land cultivation service          13.0 man-years             20.2
Repair and maintenance service     9.2 man-years             142
Supply and marketing              10.2 man-years             15.8
Training center operation         10.0 man-years             14.6
Agricultural research              9.6 man-years             12.0
Marketing and industrial
studies                         10.8 man-years             16.O
Taleghan River studies            63.8 man-years             88.0
Sub-total                     380,2 man-years            574.5
(US$7.7 M)
Equipment and Materials for Water
Development:
Pipes, screens and fittings            L4S.                  545
Pumps and electrical equipment         L.So                  39.1
Diesel engines                          40                   11U4
Radio communication equipment          L,S.                   0.9
Spare parts for water supply           LeS.                   5.3
Vehicles                                11                    3,1
Sub-total                                                114.3
(Us$1.5 M)
Materials and Supplies for
Agricultural Development:
Sapplings                              LeSo                   6.6
Pesticides                             LoS.                  72.7
Fertilizer, nitrogen              8,540 tons                 96e5
Fertilizer, phosphate             5,180 tons                 57.0
Seeds                                  L.So                   305
Drugs                                  L.So                   5.4
Chicks                                 L,S.                   7.5
Concentrated feed                      L.S.                  27.3
Sub-total                                                276.5
(US$3.7 M)



AINNXFX 10
Page   2
Foreign Exchange
Item                                Quantity                 Cost
(Rials  Million)
Equipment for Agricultural
Services:
Vehicles                               122                  40o6
Tractors with implements               112                  105.7
Repair machinery and tools             L.S.                   6.2
Spare parts for vehicles               L.S.                  17.0
Spare parts for agricultural
machinery                            L.S.                  17.8
Refrigeration units for villages       LcS*                   7.5
Milk tanker trucks                     LoS *                  5o5
Central dairy equipment                L.S,                   1.3
Audio visual equipment                 LoSo                  0o8
Sub-total                                                202 14
(US$2 .7 M)
Civil Works Contracts, 22% of
1,237,700 Rials                                             272.3
(US$3.6 M)
Interest During Construction,
6% on IBRD loan                                             210.0
(US$2.8 M)
TOTAL                                                  1,650.0
(US$22.0 14)
Note: L.S. = Lump Sum



AN      11
Page1
LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ESTABLISHING
ORGANIZATION FOR GHAZVIN DEVELOPiENT PROJECT
Agreement by Ministers on Overall Organization
MINISTRY OF WATER AND POWER
TEHRAN - IRAN
Mr. Alexander Stevenson                                   No. 171/13.4
Associate Director                                        December 31, 1966
Asia Department
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
This is to certify that the following subjects and contents of the
enclosed chart, regarding development of Dasht-e-Ghazvin area, have been
discussed between the Iranian delegation and the representatives of the
World Bank and agreement has been reached in this connection among the
undersigned, as follows (see chart).
Principal functions of the proposed organization for Ghazvin Develop-
ment Project will be:
1.   High Council - is the highest body responsible for formulation of
major policies regarding water and agricultural development of the
region. General programs and budgets have to be approved by the
said Council.
2.   Secretary and Acting ProJect Manager - will be a high official,
designated as the Secretary of the High Council. He will pass the
decisions of the Council to the waeter and agricultural agencies and
will coordinate their programs of development. He will also act as
the Project Manager.
3.   Agriculture Organization - will be responsible for the agricultural
development of the region, mainly in regard to planning, provision
of services to the farmers, and agricultural management.
4.   Water Division - will be responsible for all the works related to
water resources development and its distribution in the area up to
village level.
Minister of Water             Managing Director            Minister of
and Power               of Plan Organization           Agriculture
(Signed) Rohani             (Signed) Asfia                 (Signed)  Riahi



ANNEEN 11
Page   2
Agreement of Formation of High Council of
Ghazvin Deve'opment
1.        For the purpose of approval, coordination and top supervision of
the agricultural development programs, water resources, and irrigation sys-
tem in the Ghazvin area, which are executed by the Ministry of Agriculture
(Ghazvin Agriculture Development Org&nization) and the Ministry of Water
and Power (Tehran Regional Water Board), the Igh Council of development of
Ghazvin will be formed.
2.        Members of the High Council are:
Minister of Water and Power
Minister of Agriculture
Director of Plan Organization
3.        The Director General of the Plan Organization will, with the ap-
proval of the High Council, appoint a senior officer of the Plan Organiza-
tion, as Secretary to the High Council.
4.        The main responsibilities of the High Council shall be as
follows:
a)   determination of general policy of the areas development;
b)   coordination of agricultural development and irrigation
activities;
c)   study and approval of the organizations proposed by Ghazvin
Agriculture Development Organization and Tehran Regional Water
Board for the execution and operation of the proposed projects;
d)   checking and approval of the Annual Report and ba':ance sheets
of Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization and Tehran
Regional Water Board.
5e        The responsibilities of the Secretary to the High Council are
as follows:
a)   management of the High Council's office and administrative
affairs and preparation of process verbals of decisions reached,
and notifying the Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization
and Tehran Regional Water Board of said decisions;
b)   coordination of agricultural development and irrigation activ-
ities acting as representative of the High Council and super-
vision on the execubion of the approved program and submission
of a comprehensive Quarterly Report on the progress of works.



AN,TFX 11
Page   3
6.        The Directors of Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization and
Tehran Regional Water Board shall submit quarterly progress reports to the
Secretary for study and submission to the High Council.
7.        If necessary, the meetings of the Hligh Council shall be held
either at the request of the Secretary or the Directors of the organizations.
8.        If necessary, the Directors of the Ghazvin Agriculture Development
Organization and Tehran Regional VWater Board will attend the meetings to
explain matters.
Minister of Agriculture
Minister of Water and Power
Director General of Plan Organization
The Charter of Tehran Regional Water Board
No. 592/4
Date: May 9, 1965
1.        Effective from the ratification date of this charter, an organi-
zation called Tehran Regional Water Board shall be formed embodying the
Tehran Water Board and Karaj Water and Power Organization and which shall
be managed according to the text and provisions of this charter under the
authority of the Ministry of Water and Power.
2.        The Tehran Regional Water Board, hereinafter called "the Board",
is a legal body having independent financial status and shall be run as a
commercial concern having its head office in Tehran. The operational area
of the Board is indicated in the attached drawing.
3.        The Board can take all legal actions which it considers are re-
quired for discharging the duties assigned to it for the execution of its
projects.
4.        The main duties and authorities of the Board are as follows:
a)   management and operation and maintenance of all the installations
related to Tehran and its suburban water supply main or secondary
including overall expansion of said installation;
b)   management, operation and maintenance of Karaj Dam Power Station
and installation - irrigation grid and features connected
thereto - wholesale deals for the sale of electricity and water
including distribution;



ANNJ l
Page   4
c)   construction of Latian Dam and Power Station with relative
installations, construction of Varamin irrigation system, and
complete operation of all above features - wholesale deals for
the sale of power and water and distribution;
d)   management and control of Karaj and Jajrud Rivers and their
catchment areas with due regard to the water rights and to en-
force all measures to prevent water pollution of both dams and
reservoirs - the right to permit construction of new installation
or to alter existing installation along the water course of the
above two areas - all within the scope of the country's governing
rules and regulations;
e)   construction of Tehran and Suburban Sewage system, bearing in
mind technical and financial possibilities and management and
operation of these installations, the sale of water and the by-
products;
f)   Design and construction of dams and irrigation works for rivers
which-exist in the area, outlined in the attached map, which
comprise the catchment basins of Shahrud, Karaj, Jajrud, Lar
and other rivers of the above regions and constiruction of
installation to obtain underground water from this region and
the necessary development operations;
g)   to discharge its responsibilities the Board can, with the ap-
proval of the Minister of Water and Power, assign any part of
its responsibility to other governm.ental concerns.
5.        Management of the Board is the responsibility of the Director
General of the Board who is nominated by the Minister of Water and Powier
and approved by the Council of Ministers and appointed by Royal Charter
for a period of three years.
6.        The annual budget of the Board is prepared by the Director General
and submitted to the Ministry of Water and Power in due time for approval
and inclusion in the appropriate budget section to be used as a basis of
operation in the following year in accordance with the text of this charter.
Any correction to, or amendment of, the budget is proposed by the Director
General and approved by the Minister within the regulation framework,
7.        Administrative organization and regulation governing employment
and financial matters of the Board are to be proposed by the Director
General and after approval by the Minister of Water and Power to be
enforced.
NOTE:     Existing regulatiu. wU aiuriiurative set up shall be main-
tained until above proposals are no longer made or approvals not effected.



ANNEX 11
Page  -
8.        All changes of extension of supply rules and regulations and water
rate for the treated water and agricultural distribution, together with the
tariff of the generated pawer of the dams, are to be proposed by the Direc-
tor General of the Board and after approval by the Yinister, shall be
enforced.
9.        All other rules alid regulations connected with the Tehran Water
Board and the Lar Latian Dam and the Karaj Water Power Organization which
are not adverse to this charter shall remain effective.
Order of the Council of Ministers Establishing the Organization (GAA) for
the Deve  nent of the Ghazvin Area
Date: 29/2/1342 (1963)
THE PRIME MINISTER
TO: The Ministry of Agriculture
In execution of Article 3 of Arndm0nt Bill of Lan Reform Law, and
Approval No. 41733 dated 7/9/41, the Council of Mi-nisters in its meeting
of 16/2/42 upon the suggestion No. 5310/6 dated 9/2/42 of the 1Ministry of
Agriculture, approved the formation of GAk for development of the Ghazvin
area and the region destroyed by Shahrivar 1341 (1962) earthquake, under
the following conditions:
1.   The GAA assigned to development of Ghazvin area and the region stricken
by Shahrivar 1341 earthquake shall be managed by a Director and two
Deputy Directors. One of the Deputy Directors shall act on behalf of
the Agricultural Credit Vanvand farming cooperatives and the other
Deputy Director shall act on behalf of independent Water Bonghai.
Both Deputy Directors shall be appointed by the Minister of Agriculturea
20   The GAA shall have legal entity.
3.   All development funds of the Plan Organization provided for develop-
ment of the above area, and funds acquired out of 10 percent surcharge
under Article 15 of Land Reform Lawi, as well as the funds specified in
Approval No. 41733 dated 7/9/41 and those funds that shall be allocated
in the future for development of Ghazvin Plain, shall be disbursed by
the GAA according to a program proposed by the Director of the GAA and
approved by the Minister of Agriculture,
4.   From the date of commencement of its activities, the GAA is bound to
deliver gradually the villages to the cooperative companies in such a
manner that two years after the commencement of the development works
the officials of the cooperative companies shall be fully capable to
accept the responsibilities of their relative regions.



AUMEXY 12.
Page 7
5.   The GAA is authorized to utilize the law and the regulations of inde-
pendent irrigation Bonghai in transaction, construction and employment
affairs. The authorities delegated to the aforesaid Bonghai are
similarly delegated to the Director of GAA, who will utilize them by
approval of the Minister of Agriculture. The salary and allowances
of the Director of GAA shall be equal to the salary and allowances of
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of
the independent irrigation Bonghai and the salaries and allowances of
the Deputy Directors of GAA shall lilkewise be equal to that of the
Deputy Director of independent irrigation Bonghai.
6.   The charter as well as the executive regulations of GAA shall be put
into effect after approval oy the IMlinister of Agriculture.
7.   The regulations of this legal approval shall, from the date of issue,
replace the regulations stipulated in Approval No, 9576 dated 24/5/1341
of the Council of Ministers, and the 1,000 of 10,000,000 Rials placed
at the disposal of GAA out of surcharge subject to Article 15 of the
Land Reform Bill, by the Agricultural Bank, shall be returned to the
Treasury Department. The Ministry of Agriculture is bound to present
this approval to the Lower House of Parliament (Majlis) after its
ineugurationn   The original of this approval is retained at the
Chancery.
For the Prime Minister
Establishiment of Ghazvin WNfater Division
Date: May 29, 1967
The International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sirs:
Following our meeting at your offices on May 22, 1967, I hereby con-
firm that the Water Division for the Ghazvin Development Project is in
full existence under the management of Tehran Regional Water Board; and,
starting from MIarch 21 of this year, the Division has taken full respon-
sibility for the operation of the deep-wells drilled, as a part of the said
Project, in addition to other relevant and appropriate functions.
The said Division is fully empowered by the Tehran Regional Water Board
to carry out assignments and duties for development and operation of water
resources in the Ghazvin area. The Division has been set up by the Board
and is operating under general authority granted to the Board for the pur-
pose by legislation and administrative rules presently in effect.
(Signed) A.H. Dilmaghani
I1anaging Director
Tehran Regional Water ca:.d



A-NNEX 1A:
RURAL COOPERATIVES IN GHAZVIN PROJECT AREA
SITUATION AS OF NOVEMBER2 1966
No. of cooperative societies in project area     29
No. of members                                4,110
Registered capital                   Rls  4,3773500 (US$ 58sOOO)
Loans to members                     Rls 13540h,477 (US$181,000)
In the Ghazvin Shahristan subdivision of the Telbran Ostan (State),
there are 191 cooperative societies with 20,838 members.
The cooperative union that serves Ghazvin has capital of Rials
2,4O7j5OO (US$321000)o A total of 64 cooperative societies are participating
in this union, The major function of the union is the handling of purchases
and sales for its member cooperatives9  Commodities handled include the pur-
chase of textiles, kerosene, seeds and rice and the sale of wheat, pulses and
raisins.
The major function of the cooperative societies, usually represent-
ing one village, has thus far been the extension of minimum vital credit needs
to its members. Loans are made for onm-year and merabers have established a
good record in repaying their lcans, however, most borrowers are given new
loans for the succeeding year.
The cooperative program in the Ghazvin area, whichi was started ornly
3 years ago, has made a good begimnng. The program provides an exce'llent
means by which the villagers can be t;ained to take over commercial activities
formerly handled by their landlordse  The Government plans to give continled
strong support to the cooperative movement.



PROJECTED USES AND SOURCES OF FUNDS
(In Millions of Rials)
1965      1966       1967      1969      1969       1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977
Total for ProJect and Associated Works and Services
Cash outflow:
All investment, -/               353.9      403.5    739.2     786.3      729.4     867.0       961. O   133.7       85.5     107.2      74.9      34.5      71.7
All running costa                 22.6       53.4    218.7     278.4      337.5     379.7       415.1    418.8      335.7     338.4      347.1     352.0      354.4
Amortization of ISED loan         -           -        -         -          -         -           -        -        149.9     1149.9     149.9     149.9      149.9
Sub-total                     376.5      456.9    957.9   1,064.7    1,066.9   1,246.7     1,376.1    552.5      571.1     595.5      571.9     536.4      576.0
Cash inrflow:
Government budget                372.5      4a3L.8   671.5     593.1      548.5     624.7       687.2    172.9      134.1     106.5      33.0                 1.7
IBRD loan                         -           -      210.0     337.5      315.0     375.0      412.5            -          -         -          -              -
Payment by farmers                4.0        22.1     76.4     134.1      203.4     247.0       276.4    379.6      437.0     489.o      538.9     557.9      574.3
Sub-total                    376.5      456.9    957.9   1,064.7    1,066.9   1,246.7     1,376.1    552.5      571.1     595.5      571.9     557.9      576.0
Surplus acruing to Government          -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -         21.5       -
Water and Agriculture Investments Chargeable to Farmers
Annual Interest and Amortization on
Inveat ents Chargeable to Farmers 2/
Water Deeloplent V/               8.6        25.8     43.1       57.3      65.8      71.5        76.9     79.6       79.6      79.6       79.6      79.6       79.6
Agricultural Developent 4_/       0.7         4.2     13.8      23.8       34.0      40.2        42.0     65.3       83.4      99.2     316.3      129.3     129.3
Land Cultivation Service         12.8        20.7     24.9      28.5       30.7      31.7        32.1     32.4       18.3      17.2      17.4       17.6      17.6
Supply and Marketing Service      0.2         0.4      6.7      10.0       17.3      21.7        25.2     27.7       27.7      27.7      27.7       27.7      27.7
Sub-total                    22.3       51.1     88.5      119.6     147.8     165.1       176.2     205.0     209.0     223.7      241.0     254.2      254.2
Annual ODM Cost 5/
Water Supply Division             1.1         7.4     14.7      30.1       48.6      59.9        63.8     69.6       70.3      70.4       70.4      70.4       70.4
L ad Cultivation Service         19.4        35.8     36.1      47.3       51.7      56.o        59.6     66.9       50.9      41.0       41.0      41.3       41.6
Supply and Marieting Service      2.1        10.2     25.6      40.5       60.3      72.3        87.6    104.4      118.4     131.0     139.7      144.3      146.4
Sub-total                    22.6       53.4     76.4      117.9     160.6      188.2      211.0    240.9      239.6     2142.      251.1     256.0      258.4
Total                       44.9       104.5    164.9      237.5     308.4     353.3       387.2    445.9      448.6     466.1      492.1     510.2      512.6
Eatimated Payments by Farmers
Water Charges 6_                  2.1        11.5     37.4      65.7       99.8     118.0       119.0    130.5      139.3     147.0      155.3     161.5      161.5
For land Cultivation Services 7/  0.9         5.1     16.4      28.8       41.1      48.1        50.7     52.8      56.1       60.0      66.7       57.6      70.1
For Marketing and Supply Service 7 /1.0       5.5     22.6      39.6       62.5      80.9       106.7    131.0      158.2     182.8     200.6      209.5      213.4
Interest and Amortization Charges !/  -       -        -         -          -         -           -       65.3       83.4      99.2     116.3      129.3     129.3
Total                        4.0        22.1     76.4      134.1     203.4     247.0       276.4    379.6      437.0     489.o      538.9     557.9      574.3
Deficit (_) or Surplus (-) -40.9                -82.4     -88.5     -103.4    -105.0    -106.3      -110.8    -66.3     -11.6      *22.9      146.8     147.7     *61.7
1/ Includes all investments (Amnex 9) for 1967-1971.
2/  Investment costs mortized over life of eouipment and maxinma of 25 Years for civil iorks at 6 percent interest (see Annex 16 for total investment by years).
3/ Includes amortisation of investment in Gbazvin Water Division equipmert and facilities (see Annex 9 for breakdown).
4/ Excludes investment in poultry farms and range land improvement.
i/  In the initial years of the project a part of these 0hM coots are for investment. Operation exmenses of the Repair and Maintenance Service not included
as they are covered by receipts from other services ard clients outside the oroject.
6/ Water charges assumed would cover OdM on both irrigation and domestic vater plus replacement and a portion of interest and awortization on irrigation water investmnt.
7/ These charges would be collected as offsets against farmer's receipts from product sales.
8/ Interest and amortization for direct agricultural investments would be offset agalnst sales of famer's products beginnirg in 1972. Interest and overhead on advances in
kind would be repaid on a current basis and are not included in this table.



ESTIMATED VALUE OF INCREASED AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT
1967 - 1978
Project Operation
Gross Value.        Farm       Net Value                        Met Value
Year                    of Increased      Production      of                 Marketing  before Cap-
Output 1/        Cost-2 Output             Water   and Supply  ital Costs
-Million Rials-
1967                        291.4           125.4        166.0      20.9       29.8       115.3
1968                        490.6           205.2        285.b      36.3      h4.7         204.b
1969                        756.4           312.0        W4I .h     54.8       6h.5        325.1
1970                        941.1           415.1        526.0      66.1       76.5        383.h
1971                      1,226.7           531.6        695.1      68.0       91.8        535.3
1972                      1,536.3           687.7        8W8.6      69.6      10.)4        671i.6
1973                      1,756.7           752.5      1,00b.2      70.3      118.4       815.5
197T                      1,880.3           777.8      1,102.5      70.4      131.0        901.1
1975                      1,9b0.0           801.1      1,138.9      70.4      139.7       928.8
1976                      2,011.0           817.2      1,193.8      70Th     1)4.3         979.1
1977                      2,029.9           817.h      1,212.5      70Th      1W6.4        995.7
1978                      2,O33.4           817.)      1,216.0      70.4      1-6.7        998.7
1978 USt Million             27.1            10.9         16.2       0.9        2.0        13.3
1978 US$ per family       1,527             473        1,054        65        103          RV
1/ IncludeF value of product.s consiumed on the farm.
2/  Includes purchased seed, feed for sheep and poultry, fertilizers, pesticideF, etc., ch.rts for iu-e
of machinery and eouipment, value of feed and upkeep of draught animals, toolF, miscellTneous and
contingencies. Does not include land rent or family labor.



SINGLE FAMILY FARM BUDGETs FOR REPRESENTATIVE FARM TYPE
(In Rials)
Farm Type A                       Farm Type B                        Farm Type C                        Farm Type D
Gross value total farm output                                  u6,400                             105,750                             92,500                            81,900
Value products consumed on farm                                 14.650                             13.410                            14.650                              6.600
Gross value of products sold                                   101,750                             92,340                             77,850                            75,300
Less Marketing costs V                                          16.690                              9.730                             8.820                              9.360
Gross cash farm income                                          85,060                             82,610                            69,030                             65,940
Less production costs 2/
Variable costs:
Fertilizers                             8,535                             13,980                             6,860                              7,130
Seeds                                   1,690                               925                              2,140                              1,4,00
Pesticides                              4,920                              5,835                             2,820                              1,680
Machinery 3/                            4 040                             2,045                              3,805                              4,285
Purchased feed                          9,675                            11,250                              9,900                              8,360
Contingencies                           4,280                              4,235                             4,325                              4,250
Sub-total                                         33,140                            38,270                            29,850                             27,105
Fixed costs:
Land purchase or rents                  1,250                              1,150                             1,500                              1, 00
Miscellaneous                           1,880                              2,080                             1,920                              1,920
Sub-total                                          3,130                             3,230                              3,420                             3,420
Total                                                         36.270                             41.500                             33.270                            30.525
Met cash farm income before water
and capital chargs                                              48,790                             41,,110                            35,760                            35,415
Less water and capital charges
Interest on working capital W/                         955                              1,145                               830                                810
Water charges 5/                                    11,265                             13,695                             12,050                            12,405
Capital recovery on: 6/
Orchard investment                      7,65o                                                                    _
Field crop investment                   2,720                             1,770                              4,080                              4,080
Sub-total                                         10,370                             1,770                             4,060                              4,080
Total                                                          22,590                            16.610                             16.960                            iT,295
Net cash farm income available for
family living                                                   26,200                            2L4Joo                              18_800                            18,120
Net farm income 7/                                              40,850                             37,910                             33,450                            24,720
US$ equivalent                                                     545                                505                               447                                329
* See Annex 3 for product prices and Annex 6 for general characteristics of farm types. Yields in tons per ha asused for maJor crops at full development were as follows:
vineyards - 18.0; wheat - 3.0; barley - 3.0; chick peas - 1.5; sugar beets - 45.0; apples - 20.0; pears - 20.0; and peaches - 20.0.
l/   Charges of the Supply and Marketing Service.
2/   Includes cost paid direct by farmer and those paid to service organizations of the Organization.
3/   Charges paid to Land Cultivation Service.
4/   Interest on agricultural inputs furnished in kind by the Organization.
3/   Water charges as assumed in Annex 13, i.e. covers O&M and a portion of capital recovery.
6/   Capital recovery on direct agricultural imestment as listed in Annex 13.
I/   Net cash family incume plus value of products consumed on fanm.
1,



2STIMATED BENEFITS AND COSTS
(Basic Data Used in Calculation of Internal Rate of Return)
Project Investment and Replacement 1/                                           Project Operation and Maintenance
Total
Year             Water        Agriculture    Agriculture    Land       Repair and   Supply and  Training               Water        Agriculture      Service                      Investment
Development?/   Development    Organization  Cultivation  Maintenance  Marketing    Center   Total      Division #   Organization i/ Organizations 4'  Total          and O&i
Service      Service     Service       2/Costs
- Millions of Rials -
1965             191.5            69.7            -          85.0         6.o         1.7           -      353.9          1.1            -             21.5          22.6            376.5
1966             213.0           170.9          6h.2         65.8         6.9         2.6           -     459.2           7.4            -             46.0         53.4            512.6
1967             288.6           165.5           3.7         17.1          7.4       41.14        16.1     60o.3         14.7          142.3           61.7         218.7            819.0
1968             262.5           241.7           3.7         63.9          5.9       3713         10.5    625.5           30.1        160.5            87.8         278.4            903.9
1969             150.2           322.5           3.7         30.8          5.9       36.1          9.6   5s8.8           48.6         176.9           312.0         337.5            896.3
1970             120.7           424.9           347         26.6          5.9       32.9          9.4     624.1         59.9         191.5           128.3         379.7          1,003.8
1971             110.9           464.2           3.7         12.2          2.1       28.2          9.4    638.7          63.8          20&.1          117.2        4s5.1           1,053.8
1972               2.4            92.4           3.7          2.6          1.5       31.1           -     133.7          69.6         177.9           171.3         418.8            552.5
1973               0.5            62.8           3.7          3.9         1.0        13.6           -      85.5           70.4         96.0           169.3         335.?            421.2
197h               0.5            51.3           3.7         37.1          1.0       13.6           -     107.2           70.4          96.0          172.0         338.4            445.6
1975               1.9            23.0           1.5         34.7          3.5       10.3           -      74.9           70.h          96.0          180.7         347.1            422.0
1976               1.9             4.5           1.5         17.4          2.5        6.7           -       34.5          70.4          96.0          185.6         352.0            386.5
1977               2.4            18.1           1.5         16.0          3.1       30.6           -      71.7          70.4           96.0          188.0         354.4            426.1
1978               0.5            24.7           1.5          6.4         1.2        21.1           -       55.4          70.4         96.0           188.3         354.7            410.1
1979               0.5            48.0           1.5          3.4          1.2       21.1           -      75.7          70.4          96.0           188.3         354.7            430.4
1980              78.6            66.9           1.5          6.2          2.7       17.7           -      173.6          70.4         96.o           188.3         354.7            528.3
1981              78.6            74.6           1.5          5.2          1.5       14.1           -      175.5          70.4         96.0           188.3         354.7            530.2
1982              79.1            84.6           1.5         37.1         1.5        40.7           -      244.5         70.4          96.0           188.3         i54.7            599.2
1983              32.9           119.9           1.5         31.1         1.0        23.8           -      210.2         70.kL          96.o          188.3         354.7            564.9
l984               0.5           lob.5           1.5         16.1          1.0       23.7           -      147.3          70.4          96.0          188.3         354.7            502.0
1985              94.8           113.1           1.5         19.6          3.5       20.3           -      252.8          70.4          96.0          188.3         354.7            607.5
19a6              91.8          132.0           1.5          7.7          2.5       16.7           -      255.2          70.4          96.o          188.3         354.7            609.9
1987              70.6           127.7           1.5          3.4          3.1       30.8           -      237.1          70.4          96.o          188.3         354.7            591.8
1988              29.4           116.6           1.5          2.6          1.2       21.1           -      172.4          70.4         96.o           188.3         354.7            527.1
1989               0.5            80.9           1.5          3.9          1.2       21.1           -      109.1          70.4          96.0          188.3         354.7            463.8
1/    Includes all consultant services and investeent in equipment and facilities.  Excludes spare parts and initial inputs as shown in Annex 9 as these are included either under Od or deductible
farm costs. Excludes agricultural research and market and Taleghan River Studies.
2/   Includes investment in Ghazvin Water Division equipment and facilities and domestic water supply.
3/    Includes investment in both facilities and operation.
4/    Includes 05& for village domestic water.
I/    Includes all costs, including overhead, planning, training and extension through project cornstruction; thereafter ovecdad would be greatly rediced and mainly extension would continue to be
needed.
6/    Includes all operation and maintenance cost of Marketing and Supply Service, and the Land Cultivation Service not deducted as fare costs.



ESTIMATED BENEFITS AND COSTS
(Basic Data Used in Calculation of Internal Rate of Return)
Total                                                                                    Difference
Year                  Investment     Gross Value      Deductible     Net Agricultural          Net                between
and O&M       of Increased     Farm Costs       Output Losses       Agricultural           Benefits
Costs        Farm Output                      Due to Project 1/      Benefits           and Costs 2/
- Millions of Rials -
1965                     376.5             9.2             4.4             40.7                 -35.9              -412.4
1966                     512.6            51.8            20.0             67.2                 -35.4              -548.o
1967                     819.0           291.4           109.0             88.7                  93.7              -725.3
1968                     903.9           490.6           176.4            105.2                 209.0              -694.9
1969                     896.3           756.4           270.9            120.2                 365.3              -531.0
1970                   1,003.8           941.1           367.0            128.2                 445.9              -557.9
1971                   1,053.8         1,226.7           483.3            132.5                 610.9              -442.9
1972                     552.5         1,536.3           637.0            134.9                 764.4               211.9
1973                     421.2         1,756.7           699.7            135.9                 921.1               499.9
1974                     445.6         1,880.3           721.7            135.9               1,022.7               577.1
1975                     422.0         1,940.0           744.6            135.9               1,059.5               637.5
1976                     386.5         2,011.0           759.1            135.9               1,116.0               729.5
1977                     426.1         2,029.9           759.1            135.9               1,134.9               708.8
1978                     410.1         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               728.3
1979                     430.4         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               708.0
1980                     528.3         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               610.1
1981                     530.2         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               608.2
1982                     599.2         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               539.2
1983                     564.9         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               573.5
1984                     502.0         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               636.4
1985                     607.5         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               530.9
1986                     609.9         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               528.5
1987                     591.8         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               546.6
1988                     527.1         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               611.3
1989                     463.8         2,033.4           759.1            135.9               1,138.4               674.6
Residual Value                                                                                                    1,600.0
1/   These losses would result as areas presently irrigated by ghanats are replaced by deep-well irrigation.
2/   This column will equal approximately zero when discounted at 10 percent interest.



IRAN: PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR GHAZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
|  MINISTER OF        ll            MINISTER OF       ||MANAGING DIRECTOR              |
HIGH COUNCIL
""IJIZI"'
PROJECT MANAGER                    l
GHAZVIN WATER
GHAZVIN AGRICULTURE                                      DIVISION OF
ORGANIZATION                                       TEHRAN REGIONAL
WATER BOARD
l           l             l ~~~~~~~~~~PLANNING AND DATA  l  OPERATION AND l
ADMINISTRATION    SUPPLY AND MARKETING                COLLECTION            MAINTENANCE
| FINANCES                                        WATER AND POREPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE  W   DEPOWER  FINANCES AND ACCOUNTS|
| AGRICULTURAL AND  L    LAND CULTIVATION l
| EXTENSION SERVICE  l  l 
|AGRICULTURAL PLANNING I
IRRIGATION PLANNING
OPERATION
June, 1967                                                                                               (3R) IBRD -3260



>1-< 6 1 -al                                                                                     961  AVW
'Os.Os~         'S.0               I.O                                      _O  I    _
- ~  ~   C -ilO -0o0 --6 -  -----  ----  ----- 
VI                0          "
''~~~~ -  'Fw                                   11-                          -7i -  -:F - -  - - Sv
8 Y \, P f t , l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                          0V 
*pr ~~~~~~~ 70vu P ~~~~~~~~~~ r ,, s / O  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r  \<                ,       o     S----/ O        X           f            X %X- 
4/ 1            <a                     NVI&ISDNIVI
ok~~                    ~~~~~ >  o           o            o%
\              w ~ ~   }  {   o   o             <  O          soellTa Jo Uo0  0 'o 
X w ~~~~~~o      o            o O          0puo Dr
o           I  %%  _           ;        polGeun.- - -
193rOdd lN3WdO13A3d NIAZVHO             -         5peozle %%
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N0U                                    _                        _



