ZA       / 7 -/'R N)
CUtCtUTMG COPY                     ~~~RESTRICTED
z CIlRCULATING cnRESTRICOPYE 
10 3? RETURND TO ARCHIVES DIMION                          Report No. P-568
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
IRAN
FOR THE
GHAZVIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 28, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION CF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO IRAN
FOR THE GHAZVIN DEVELOPENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$ 22 million to Iran.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Government of Iran selected the Ghazvin plain for
intensive development after many villages in the area were
severely damaged or destroyed by an earthquake in September 1962.
A reconnaissance study was conducted by consultants in 1963, on
the basis of which the Government of Iran approached the Bank for
financial assistance in March 1964. An initial program of works
and studies designed to provide the data needed for long-term
planning was reviewed by a Bank mission which visited Iran in
November/December 1965. Another Bank mission visited Iran in
October/November 1966, after the final program had been formulated,
to carry out the appraisal of the project.
3.       Loan negotiations with Mr. A.H. Dilmaghani, Director
General of the Tehran Regional Water Board, and representatives of
the Ministry of Agriculture and of the Plan Organization began in
the Bank on August 9 and were completed on August 15, 1967.
4.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's tenth loan to Iran.
The International Development Association and the International
Finance Corporation have, so far, not financed any operations in
Iran. The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Iran
as of July 31, 1967:



-2-
Amount (US$ Million)
Year   No.      Borrower        Purpose            Bank     Undisbursed
1957   160 IRN     Iran       General development  75.0
1959   227        Iran       Road construction     72.0          _
1959   240        IMDBI      Assist private         5.2         0.4
industry
1960   247        Iran       Dez multipurpose      42.0          _
project
1964   381        Iran       Road construction     18.5         8.0
1965   410        Iran       Road construction     32.0        27.4
1965   )11        Iran       Feeder roads           8.5         7.4
1965   422        IMDBI      Assist private        10.0         1.6
industry
1966   459        IlIDBI     Assist private        25.0        21.0
industry
Total (less cancellations)                 288.2
of which has been repaid                 104.2
Total now outstanding                      184.0
Amount sold                   21.3
of which has been repaid   18.6            2.7
Total now held by Bank                     181.3
Total undisbursed                           65.8        65.8
5.       Loan 160 IRN is fully repaid and loans 227 and 247 IRN are
fully disbursed.  Of the undisbursed balance of $65.8 million   for
the remaining loans $42.8 million is for the three road projects
made in 1964 and 1965. Disbursements for loan 381 IRN are proceeding
satisfactorily, while those for the other two road loans made in
1965 have been slow because of initial delays in appointing super-
visory consulting engineers and in awarding contracts. However, all
works are now underway, and disbursements for these two projects are
not expected to extend beyond the Closing Dates in 1969 and 1970.
Commitments for sub-projects under loan 459 IRN to the Industrial
and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI), which became effective
only on October 10, 1966, are proceeding as forecast and reached
$15.2 million as of July 31, 1967.
6.       An appraisal mission visited Iran in August to do the
appraisal work for a possible fourth loan to IMDBI. The Bank is
also considering the financing of the Greater Dez project involving
the irrigation and agricultural development of an additional
90,000 ha in the area in which water resources were made available by
the project financed under loan 247 IRN; an appraisal mission is



-3-
scheduled for the fall of 1967.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.       Borrower:   Iran
Amount:     US$ 22 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:    Development of water resources and
agriculture in selected areas of the
Ghazvin plain, consultants' services
therefor, and for the study of the
exploitation of waters from the
Taleghan River in the Ghazvin plain.
Amortiz-
ation:     In 39 semi-annual installments beginning
February 15, 1974 and ending February 15,
1993.
Interest
Rate:     6 per cent
Commitment
Charge:   3/8 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.       An appraisal report entitled "Ghazvin Development Project,
Iran" (TO-592a) is attached (No. 1).
9.       Iranian agriculture, which supports nearly 70 percent of
the population, has undergone a deep change in recent years with
the implementation of a Land Reform program. Initiated in 1962,
the program first provided for the elimination of single holdings
in excess of one village, and in the second phase, for the estab-
lishment of better tenurial arrangements for the farmers in the
villages retained by landlords. These two phases are now
virtually completed and, after having injected credit into the
rural economy to carry the new farmers over initial difficulties,
the Government is shifting emphasis to investment more directly
aimed at raising agricultural production and incomes. Agricultural
production at present meets most of Iran's requirements for agri-
cultural commodities with the major exceptions of sugar, edible
oils and tea, which are, in part, imported from abroad. In the



- 4 -
future, such requirements should increase with the growth in
disposable income and population; the latter is presently esti-
mated to grow at about 3 percent per annum.   The Government has
decided to stimulate production through encouragement to commercial
farming and by inducing non-commercial farmers to shift out of
traditional subsistence agriculture into market-oriented farm
production. Most Iranian farmers still are at a low level of
subsistence, as reflected in a per capita income of only $55 to
$60 in agriculture compared with $230 for the nation as a whole,
including income from the oil sector. The development of water
resources and agriculture in the Ghazvin plain has therefore been
given high priority by the Government, as it will affect trad-
itional farming commodities in the area and is expected to serve
as a guide to the development of similar areas of the Great
Iranian Plateau.
10.      The Ghazvin Development Project is the first stage of a
20-year agricultural development program for the Ghazvin plain,
situated west of Tehran. The Project would provide water for the
irrigation of about 34,000 hectares of newly developed land by
means of deep wells and small local stream diversions.   The Project
also includes the establishment of about 1,900 small sheep and
poultry farms and the improvement of 5X500 hectares of range land
for livestock production.   Project -works are expected to be com-
pleted by March 21, 1972, which is the end of Iranian calendar year
1350.  Work on a limited part of the Project has been proceeding
since 1964 but in viem of the complexity of the problems involved
a detailed program for the whole project was not completed until
the end of 1966. Full development of the newly irrigated land is
expected to be achieved within about ten years and to result in an
increase in net farm output of about $16 million a year. The next
stage of the 20-year program would bring into Ghazvin part of the
flow of the Taleghan river to increase the acreage under irrigation.
11.      It is expected that charges paid by the farmers will cover
the cost of the services provided initially by the Government in
respect of land cultivation and supply and marketing, as well as
the operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation and domestic
water supply systems in the Project area.   They would also cover
that part of the investment in agriculture and irrigation which
could be borne by the farmers without depriving them of the
incentive to participate in the Project. Arrangements are provided
for an annual review of such charges in consultation with the Bank.
12.      The proposed Bank loan would serve to finance expenditures
to be made for the Project from the date of the signature of the
loan to March 21, 1972. Total expenditures during this period are



expected to amount to more than $50 million and the proposed loan of
$22 million would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of
equipment, supplies and consultants' services, interest during con-
struction, as well as a portion of the foreign exchange component of
civil works. All goods financed by the Bank will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding except for consulting
services and contracts not large enough to merit international competi-
tion. Iranian contractors would participate without preference in inter-
national competitive bidding for civil works contracts. For equipment
and supplies such as cars, small trucks and pumps which are assembled in
Iran from imported components, Iranian bidders would be allowed a 15
per cent preference. Disbursements for minor imported items purchased
in Iran and for equipment and supplies procured from local manufacturers
to whom contracts have been awarded after competitive bidding would be
limited to 70 per cent of their total cost which is the estimated foreign
exchange component.
13.       The appraisal report points out that the foreign exchange
costs of consultants' services required for the planning, execution
and operation of the Project are about $7.7 million or 35 percent
of the proposed loan. Several factors account for the high prop-
ortion of consultants' services in the loan.   First, the Government
intends to use the basic concepts and development techniques
evolved by the consultants in this project for the development of
similar areas of the Great Iranian Plateau.   This will req'  e the
provision of more consultants and the training of more Iranian
personnel than would otherwise be required for the Project. Second,
the demands of Iran's development plan and the land Reform program
have placed a heavy burden on the staff of the Ministries of Water
and Power and Agriculture; as a result, the planning, execution and
operation of the Project entirely with their own staff is beyond
their present capacity. Initially, therefore, the consultants will
have to undertake a number of executive functions until a suitable
number of Iranians have been trained. Third, to achieve an adequate
internal rate of return for the Project, the planned transformation
from traditional subsistence farming in the area to market oriented
farm production will have to be accomplished in a relatively short
time. This will require close supervision of farming practices,
intensive instruction in new farm techniques and the provision of
reliable and well organized services. Until the staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened, much of this work



- 6 -
must be taken on by the consultants. Fourth, the consultants
will carry out training of Iranian personnel, agricultural re-
search and a wide range of studies on marketing and industrializa-
tion, and the detailed engineering for the second stage of the
Project including the use of water from the Teleghan river.  For
these reasons, the relatively high cost of consultants' services
in the total proposed loan appears justified.
1h.       If approved, the proposed loan will be the second Bank
loan to Iran for irrigation development. The $42 million loan of
1960 for the Dez multi-purpose project helped finance the develop-
ment of an irrigated pilot area of 20,000 hectares. Unlike the
Dez Project with its multi-purpose aspects, for which it had been
necessary to set up a quasi-independent agency, the Ghazvin
Development Project essentially involves the better utilization
of existing water resources to increase agricultural output. In
the circumstances, the Government intends to carry out and operate
the Project within the framework of existing Ministries. An inter-
ministerial system of coordination has been built into the Project,
bringing together the three principal agencies involved, namely the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water and Power and the
Plan Organization, in the Ghazvin High Council. The Council has a
permanent secretary who serves as Project Manager for the purposes
of ensuring implementation of the Council's decisions,coordination
and supervision of the program of works and other activities for
the Project, and liaison with the Bank. This system is a new con-
cept in Iran but it appears adequate for ensuring smooth working
relations among the agencies involved. The development and oper-
ation of water supplies is the responsibility of a Division, with
separate accounts, of the Tehran Regional Water Board. The Board
is a statutory body under the Ministry of Water and Power and has
shown itself capable of efficient performance. The Government has
established in 1965 a Ghazvin Agriculture Development Organization
to execute and maintain the agricultural aspects of the Project,
but the Organization needs a charter and regulations to attract
competent Iranian staff and carry out its duties efficiently. The
Draft Loan Agreement limits disbursements to $3 million if such
charter and regulations have not come into force in satisfactory
form within two months from the Effective Date.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15. The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Iran, the
Draft Supplementary Letter on Project Organization and Execution
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section h (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The Draft Loan Agreement



generally follows the normal pattern of Bank agreements for this
type of project, except for Section 2.02 (b) which limits dis-
bursements as explained in paragraph 14 above. The Draft Supple-
mentary Letter on Project Organization and Execution sets out the
arrangements agreed upon in connection -with the administrative
structure described in paragraph 1h; it also specifies the under-
standing reached as regards agreements with villages, charges to
farmers, consultants services and training of Iranian personnel.
PART V - THE ECONO01Y
16.      An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Iran" (No. AS-123a) dated March 24, 1967, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on M4arch 31, 1967.
17.      Since mid-1964 Iran's economy has emerged from a prolonged
recession, during which domestic savings exceeded investment and
the balance of payments was in surplus, and entered into a boom
phase which is continuing for the third year running. In real
terms, the growth of the economy has exceeded 8 percent annually
in the past two years and prospects are good for continued growth
at a similar rate this year. The ratio of investment to GNP is
above 18 percent. There is concern over the pressure on the
balance of payments and the inflationary tendencies caused by the
high rate of investment. So far, however, fiscal and monetary
authorities have fully succeeded in maintaining price stability
and adequate foreign exchange reserves by applying selective
restrictions on credit expansion and exercising restraint in
deficit financing and Government imports. Good crops for the
past two years and higher than expected increases in oil revenues
have also helped; the Oil Consortium reported crude output during
the first half of 1967 to have been 19 percent higher than during
the corresponding period of 1966.
18.      Public expenditures of about Rls. 200 billion ($2.65
billion) for the 5½-year Plan ending in March 1968   are likely to
be achieved. Progressis satisfactory in infrastructure but has
been exceptionally slow in the industry and power sectors; the
delay is being caught up with the initiation of large new projects
in the fields of steel, aluminium, petrochemicals and machine
tools financed in part with foreign loans and private partici-
pations. With these projects and the general boom in private
industrial investment; Iran is starting a massive industrializ-
ation program which will need to be carefully scrutinized in the
context of the Fourth Plan which may be formulated before the end
of this year. In the field of agriculture, public sector
activities in the Third Plan were largely concentrated on the Land



- 8 -
Reform program. With its completion, the Government is shifting
emphasis to investment more directly aimed at raising agricul-
tural production.
19.      The economic report concludes that Iran's economic per-
formance can be considered on balance satisfactory and that Iran
is creditworthy for substantial amounts of additional borrowing
on conventional terms. During the last year and a half, foreign
borrowing has been substantial but Iran's external debt service
is still less than 10 percent of its foreign exchange earnings
and is unlikely to exceed that level in the near future. This is
not excessive in view of the prospects of steadily rising oil
revenues and the near self-sufficiency of the economy in most of
the essential agricultural commodities. Since mid-1965 foreign
exchange reserves have not fluctuated much; they notw amount to
$277 million, equivalent to about three months of imports.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan mould comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOM"IENDATION
21.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the
following Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Iran in an amount equivalent
to U.S. $22,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Iran in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million United States dollars
(U.S. $22,000,000), to mature on and prior to
February 15, 1993, to bear interest at the rate
of six per cent (65j per annum, and to be upon



- 9 -
such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agree-
ment (Ghazvin Development Project) between Iran
and the Bank, which has been presented to this
meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By
J. Burke Knapp
August 28, 1967
Attachment



