Report No. PID8113
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Sustainable Forestry Investment...
Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Forestry
Project ID                       NIPE52080
Borrower                         Republic of Nicaragua
Implementing
Agency                           Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Km. 8.5 Carretera a Masaya
Managua, Nicaragua
Tel:     (505) 276 0233
Fax:     (505) 276 0943
Date this PID Prepared           September, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           July 7, 1998
Project Board Date               January 7, 1999
Country and Sector Background
A major goal of the Government of Nicaragua is to reverse the trends of
natural resources degradation and ensure that the Nicaragua forestry sector
contributes to, rather than impedes, social and economic development. The
government has already initiated important actions towards accomplishing
these steps. These actions include: (a) approving and publishing the Law of
Modernization of the State in which the responsibilities for the forestry
sector shift from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry; (b) approving the Atlantic Biological Corridor (ABC) project
which establishes priorities for biodiversity conservation within what
constitutes the vast majority of Nicaragua's remaining natural forests; and
(c) elaborating a law to define the process of land titling and demarcation
for the indigenous people of the Atlantic Coast and solve some potential land
issues over forestry. The submission of the latter to the National Assembly
is a condition for effectiveness for the ABC GEF project, and it would be a
condition of negotiations of this proposed project.
Project Objectives and Strategy
The project development objective of this Learning and Innovation Credit is
to improve local capacity (private and public) and develop alternatives to
address long term forestry issues in Nicaragua. The establishment of a basis
for improved forestry management will be started by promoting environmentally
sound private sector investments, improving the business environment,
reducing the perception of risk in forestry sector activities, and by helping
to define forestry institutional policies and reforms through a participatory
process. This project would be the first phase of a longer-term effort to
improve forestry management and private sector development. Subsequent
Government efforts to implement the Program could eventually be supported by
an Adaptable Program Credit (APC) and other donors. The philosophy of the
project, and project activities, will be based on the following guiding



principle: (a) promotion of public-private sector partnerships; (b) use of
market-based instruments to achieve sustainable forestry objectives; and (c)
extensive involvement of civil society in policy reform.
Performance indicators measuring progress towards achieving the development
objective would include: (a) the SFIPO fully functioning, providing demand-
driven services to non government forestry stakeholders, improving the
business environment and capacity for private sector and communal sector
sustainable forestry investment; (b)Policies and strategies for forestry
sector developed and agreed with principal stakeholders by year 3; and (c)
the program pilot subprojects executed, results evaluated and integrated
into the long term forestry planning.
Outputs of the projects are: i) Increased access to "know how", best
practices, applicable technology, and financial resources among key end-users
in the forestry sector; ii) more effective participation by non-government
stakeholders' in the formulation of forestry sector policy and in the public
sector's strategic decision-making processes; iii) more effective
facilitation by the   public sector support of   private and communal forestry
development activities.
Indicators of project output would include: (i) Stakeholders' satisfaction on
response and results from their requests for assistance on obtaining forest
sector information, access to technology and markets, training, and
financing; forestry certification standards developed and disseminated; new
financiers investing in forestry projects; (ii) Jointly developed policies &
strategies for forestry sector; (iii) At least 5 subprojects completed,
results evaluated and integrated into public sector strategy for forestry
development.
Project Description
The Project would consist of four components:
Project Component 1: Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector
Forestry.
The component would finance technical assistance, training, workshops,
studies, office equipment and supplies, vehicles, and operational expenses.
This component would initiate a broad range of practical activities in the
forestry sector and ultimately lead to an improved use and management of the
forest and forest resources. In order to mobilize funds, entrepreneurial
spirit and expertise and to capture the opportunities for a more effective
and productive sustainable management of the forest and land resources in
Nicaragua, the project would finance TA and related costs for:
Assistance to develop certification of environmentally sound forestry
practices (forest certification) as a mean to achieve sustainable forestry
management and reaching new markets - development of national criteria,
training of certifiers, and pilot certification cost-sharing.
promotion and facilitation of sustainable private investments;
transfer and introduction of appropriate technologies and best practice;
integration of small holders into the productive process by developing
financial and economic incentives;
identification of key public investments to facilitate private activities
establishment of a forest sector information system
marketing and commercialization outreach program
- 2-



a capacity building outreach program for sustainable forestry
To provide the assistance and specific support the project would finance
consultant services, equipment and administrative expenses of the
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office (SFIPO), to be created by
Ministerial Resolution under MAF.    Its action and work program would be
guided by an ad hoc Steering Committee, to be established by MAF, which
represents both Government and non government stakeholder interests.
The SFIPO's terms of reference would be to mobilize expertise and funds,
provide up-to-date internal and external information on the sector, establish
local, regional and international connections to investors and sources of
technology. The SFIPO main task would be to manage existing information,
facilitate access to information (e.g., through the internet), establish
contacts and provide services to potential investors, national and
international institutions and the government. Within the three-year project
timeframe it is expected to attract investments and foment development
activities. It should also become a major technical force in the development
and preparation of sectoral investment plans. In the short-term, SFIPO's
institutional relationship to the newly created INAFOR would be as a link
between government regulators and private sector and communal investors. It
would: (i) operate within the context of GON's forestry policies, (ii) assist
INAFOR by ensuring that the private and communal sector were well-informed of
the normative and regulatory frameworks; (iii) promote compliance with the
normative and regulatory frameworks through its actions with the private
sector; but (iv) its priorites and specific work programs would be defined by
its Steering Committee, to whom it would ultimately be answerable. In this
fashion SFIPO will assist INAFOR to avoid the dilemma posed by the
conflicting promotion and regulation mandates suffered by many Forestry
departments. In the medium term, the Government might no longer need to
maintain this office, under a scenario of SFIPO evolving into a private
sector supported organization like Nicaragua's CEI (Import-Export Center - a
non profit organization) or UNICAFE (an autonomous technical assistance
entity financed by and which responds to coffee producers).
The project's success is greatly based on ensuring a proper orientation from
the start-up phase   of both the SFIPO and the project.    To assist GON and
the project to develop the needed clear, strategic vision of how the
forestry sector's potential might be achieved within a sustainable
development context, the project would finance the establishment of an
International Forestry Advisory Panel (IFAP); this would also have the
benefit of lowering both project monitoring and initial technical
assistance costs to a minimum . The IFAP's assistance would be provided
directly, flexibly and in custom tailored fashion (and at a much lower cost
than normal for international or bi-lateral assistance). The Panel would be
comprised of at least three world-class experts on forestry sector
development and sustainable management (including biodiversity specialists
and indigenous people specialists). They will be allowed to bring in
additional expertise as required. The Panel would meet twice in project year
one and at least once a year thereafter. Importantly, the Panel would be in
permanent contact with the project through the Internet, in order to answer
questions or provide contacts to required sources of expertise.
Project Component 2 - Assistance To Forestry Sector Institutional Reform.
The project would finance technical assistance, training, studies, workshops,
public consultations, and publications for providing support to the Ministry
-3 -



of Agriculture and Livestock under its new legal mandate as the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MAF), to its newly created National
Forestry Institute (INAFOR), and to the Ministry of Economy (MEDE). The
latter will be in charge of designing forestry policies, norms and
procedures. In addition, the component would provide technical assistance to
CONADES, to research reforestation mechanisms and their carbon sequestration
potential. The sub-components are:
Assistance to INAFOR to: (i) create internal capacity for the development of
forestry policy, norms, and procedures; (ii) assist in the elaboration of a
strategy to develop a national forestry policy and related norms, and
procedures; and (iii) to implement a participatory process to build consensus
and garner strong support around the development of a forestry strategy. One
expected outcome from these activities would be the development of a proposal
for forestry sector investment which includes specific commitments from the
principal non-governmental forestry sector stakeholders on their roles and
contributions to the forestry sector development process. A secondary
benefit of the process would be expected in terms of a significantly enhanced
situation as regards participation, communication and conflict management
between distinct interests in the involved regions.
Assistance to MEDE to: develop the rules and regulations for forestry
concessions in public land given the new functions established by the Law of
Modernization of the State for the Ministry of Economy. The financing will be
utilized for studies and technical assistance.
Assistance to CONADES: to assist them in the development of the enabling
national policy framework, and in research on reforestation, and carbon
sequestration. The financing would be utilized for technical assistance,
studies, workshops for coordination and priority setting, representation in
international meetings, and promotion of forestry offsets in Nicaragua.
Project Component 3 - Pilot Subprojects:
The objective of this component would be to develop and test innovative
activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to priority forestry
sector problems, including innovative models for forestry resource management
(certification, ecolabeling.), increasing decentralization of forestry
functions, public-private sector partnerships, and creative financing
mechanisms for sustainable forestry management. To achieve this objective,
the project would finance, on a cost-sharing basis, a program of grants to
private sector, non-governmental organizations, communities and
municipalities to carry out the pilot sub-projects (Structured Learning and
Innovation) which included specific actions for monitoring and evaluating the
results of implementation. The eligibility, terms and conditions will be set
forth in a Operational Manual to be adopted before effectiveness. The
specific pilots to be supported would include the following: (a)
Private/Communal Forestry Initiative Subprojects and (b) technology
introduction and verification subprojects, for example:
Private and communal sector forestry initiatives within which eligible
subprojects would be those that had the potential to be replicated
programmatically on scales significant to departmental or regional forestry
resource management and its forestry-products based economy. The experiences
to be gained through the financing of these initiatives would assist GON to
better refine the role of government in the facilitation and promotion of
-4 -



forestry investments, i.e., to "test the market" prior to committing to
larger, risky, or potentially, distorting schemes. The types of subprojects
expected would include: sustainable forestry at the agricultural frontier;
planning and development of tropical broadleaf forest resources; planning and
development of pine forest resources; multiple-use reforestation; secondary
forest management; incorporation of timber, non-timber, and fruit species for
shade coffee plantations. The types of activities included under the
subprojects would be such things as: achieving eligibility for certification
of forestry and forestry products; forest fire management and protection;
natural forest management; tree nurserying; planting and management of trees
either in pure or mixed stands, or individually as part of agroforestry or
silvopastoral systems; non-timber forest product management and utilization;
shade coffee plantation management; secondary forest management and
reforestation for fuelwood production; vertical integration of smallholder
producers and wood-based microenterprises; and enhancing forest enterprise
business management and marketing and commercialization capacity. Other
activities or costs eligible for grant financing would include: technical
assistance for subproject formulation; direct costs for grant administration;
training and technical assistance; small purchases of goods and equipment
justified for technology introduction and training purposes or for public
good content (e.g., fire fighting tools); small works and infrastructure
justified for public good content (e.g., fire watch towers and fire ponds,
control posts, cooperative solar wood dryers); maintenance, operational and
logistical costs. Each subproject will monitor, evaluate and disseminate
results, including optional assistance to the local government to hold annual
municipal workshops for local forestry sector coordination.
Technology introduction and verification initiatives within which eligible
subprojects would be those with the potential to provide results in the short
term to the resolution of key technical constraints to the financially-viable
management of forestry resource by non-government stakeholders and to the
forestry-products based economy and with potential to be disseminated on
scales significant to the departmental or regional levels. Preliminary areas
of interest have been identified as: (i) reforestation improvement (clones,
seeds, provenance's), planting stock improvement, seed source certification,
nursery improvement (root trainers, planting media), plantation
establishment, native species; (ii) natural forest management improvement -
simplified management planning for smallholders, low-impact harvesting of
wood and non-wood products, improved methodologies and practices for stand
inventories, silvicultural techniques and protection against fire and
pathogens and; (iii) processing and product improvement -- reduction of
waste and environmental damage associated with processing of forest products;
improving quality and value-added of forest product output; use of non wood
forest products.   Activities eligible for grant financing would include:
refinement of subproject formulation; direct costs for grant administration;
training and technical assistance; salaries of field assistants; goods,
equipment, and consumables required for research and analytical purposes;
small works and infrastructure directly related to the financed research
(e.g., fencing of research plots, protected storage sheds, demonstration-
scale models for technology verification); monitoring and analysis; results
dissemination; and maintenance, operational and logistical costs.
Project Component 4.    Project Administration
This component would finance the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be
established under the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The
- 5 -



PCU would have overall responsibility for project administration,
coordination between MAF and other relevant government institutions (MARENA,
MEDE, and MIFIN), procurement and disbursement, and meeting IDA's reporting
requirements. A small office consisting of a Project Coordinator,
Procurement and Disbursement officer, secretary, and other support staff
(i.e., driver, cleaner) would be financed along with required office
equipment, vehicle, and operational budget. Financing would also be provided
through this component for the meetings of the Project Steering Committee,
annual independent financial and technical audits and for internal evaluation
for mid-term and final reviews.
Project Cost and Financing
Financing plan (US$million):
Source          Local            Foreign         Total
Government       0.8             -                0.8
Beneficiaries    1.6             0.4             2.0
IDA             3.6              1.4             5.0
Total            6.0             1.8             7.8
Project Coordination and Implementation
The proposed institutional structure is: MAF as implementing agency, a PCU
directly dependent from the Minister, and the SFIPO created under the PCU by
Ministerial Resolution. The PCU would be responsible for the execution of
those activities which are for the Government and SFIPO for thosewhich are
for the private sector to implement.. The SFIPO will respond to its Steering
Committee for its annual plan and budget (see organigram). The PCU, the SFIPO
and the Steering Committee will be created by the same Ministerial
Resolution.
The PCU established in MAF will handle procurement; disbursement; accounting;
contracting; project monitoring and supervision; meeting GON and IDA
reporting requirements; arrange supervision and evaluation visits and
meetings of International Forestry Advisory Panel; project coordination (as
per recommendation of the Financial Assessment).
The Steering Committee will be composed of the Ministers of MAF, MARENA,
MEDE, private sector and civil society representatives, including indigenous
people of the Atlantic Coast; the Project Coordinator will be the secretary
of the Steering Committee and will participate in the meetings with no right
to vote, as well as a representative of the Minister of Finance (MIFIN).
This representative body would assist to ensure project orientation balances
demands of principal stakeholder groups. In this role, the Committee would
ensure close inter-institutional collaboration on the project, oversee the
work of the SFIPO, approve its annual plan, and program the budget. Most of
the monitoring would be carried out by the International Advisory Panel of
experts created and financed by the project.
Project Sustainability
Recognizing the importance of incorporating learning into the project as it
advances, special emphasis would be given to monitoring and evaluation of
project activities (e.g., studies, social assessments, pilot activities) in
order to ensure the incorporation of important lessons into the work of the
- 6 -



Forestry Institute. The purpose of the project would be to create the basis
for a sustainable management framework, and further investments would depend
upon Government commitment to implement and maintain this framework. In
addition, this project would enhance the Government's capacity to manage
forestry planning and coordinate forestry management.
Lessons Learned
Lessons have been learned from Bank financing of a variety of related
forestry projects executed throughout Latin America and elsewhere.
Bank experience preparing Forestry Plans underscore the importance of
widespread and meaningful participation (the private sector was especially
left out, while the communities were included) for the success of policy
reforms. Furthermore, Bank lessons indicate that expanding knowledge of
problems through careful analytical work is a prerequisite for achieving
results. The design of this project reflects both of these lessons.
Poverty Category
The project would have a poverty focus. Project beneficiaries would be
members of the private sector and non-governmental organizations, forest and
land owners (e.g., groups of small and medium-sized owners, communities -
including indigenous, cooperatives) and central and local-level Government
officials that are involved in aspects of natural resourcces and forestry
management. The project would benefit women by particularly addressing and
reaching them with technical assistance, training, workshops and subprojects.
However, a wider target population would be reached through the participatory
process and communication campaign implemented during the project. The
project would benefit indigenous people by particularly addressing and
reaching indigenous communities with TA, training, workshops and subprojects
as will be stated in the Operational Manual. It is intended that the process
of developing the Forestry Institute should provide the opportunity for all
key stakeholders to participate through their representatives and thus
potentially benefit from the outcomes of the process. Staffing of SFIPO will
be done to be responsive indigenous people and gender considerations.
Environmental and Social Aspects
The proposed Nicaragua Forestry LIC would be implemented with a coherent IDA
and GEF-supported natural resource strategy for Nicaragua, the key elements
of which are (and will be) financed through the Rural Municipalities Project
and the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project. The project is likely to be
environmentally highly beneficial. By promoting sustainable natural forest
management, the project is expected to increase the perceived value of
keeping lands under forest, rather than converting them to agriculture or
pasture. Deforestation, advance of the agriculture frontiers, and forest
burning are continuing in Nicaragua. In particular, the project would
initiate forest certification activities in Nicaragua, contributing in this
way to the goals of the newly established World Bank-WWF Alliance for Forest
Conservation and Sustainable Use. The project would primarily provide
technical assistance and institutional strengthening to promote the
management of native forest and to reforest cleared areas. From an
environmental standpoint sustainable natural forest management systems,
promoted by the project, are preferable (in terms of biodiversity and soil
- 7-



and water conservation) to any agricultural or pasture systems. The project
would promote the management of non-timber forest products (NTFP), whose
development would have relatively minor environmental impacts, while
providing an economic incentive to maintain the natural forest. Environmental
expertise (forest ecology and biodiversity) will be represented in SFIPO, in
the International Advisory Panel, and in the Steering Committee. The forest
information system will include relevant data on how specific forestry
practices can be modified to accommodate biodiversity conservation and other
environmental concerns.
The present proposal relies on the extensive and intensive social
consultations, and stakeholder analysis carried out for IDA financed Rural
Municipalities project, the GEF-financed Atlantic Biological Corridor
project, a series of six consultations carried out with principal
stakeholders groups during preparation, and field visits to meet with
potential project participants. The Social Assessment of the Rural
Municipalities Project of the Atlantic Biological Corridor is still valid and
relevant and is included in the project files. An Indigenous People
Development Plan has been prepared with interventions to ensure their
participation in the development of the forestry police to be supported by
the LIC. The project would benefit indigenous people by particularly
addressing and reaching indigenous communities with TA, training, workshops
and subprojects. Grant for subprojects will be given in areas where land
titling issues have been resolved. To avoid unduly prejudicing the project
against working in the Atlantic, during the course of the project
implementation the SFIPO would seek assistance of organizations (e.g. WWF)
who have established presence in the Atlantic and ample experience in the
forestry sector to promote the development of subprojects in areas and with
communities in RAAN and RAAS where conditions would allow implementation.
All potentially eligible areas have been identified as have principal
stakeholders (see Annex 4). As part of the detailed development of project
activities within both priority areas and thematic programs, more detailed
stakeholder analysis will be carried out within the specific areas of project
intervention. The analysis of critical social issues, including mechanisms
to address them acceptable to IDA, would be carried out during the course of
implementation. This would include the mechanisms to ensure indigenous
peoples participation in the development and implementation of the forestry
strategy. Consultation will be linked to the launching and consultation for
the ABC project. Furthermore, all subproject activities would include prior
consultations with the municipal councils of the concerned municipalities.
No subprojects would be financed over the objections of the local
authorities. Indigenous People specialists will be represented in SFIPO, the
Advisory Panel, the Steering Committee and INIFOR/MEDE.
Program Objective Categories
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Contact Points
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Paola Agostini
-8-



Task Manager
(202) 458-2416
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 10, 1999.
-9-



