                   Document of
               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: 30515

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-31600 TF-26845)

                       ON A

             LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                     TO THE

                   NICARAGUA

                      FOR A

       Sustainable Forestry Investment Project




                December 20, 2004

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = Cordoba LC
                          16.31 Cordoba = US$ 1
                                  US$ 1 = 16.31 Cordoba

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CONADES    National Commission for Sustainable Development
CONADES    National Commission for Sustainable Development
CONICEFV   Council for Voluntary Forestry Certification (Consejo de Certificación
           Forestal Voluntaria)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DO         Development Objective
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
GON        Government of Nicaragua
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Co-operation
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IFAP       International Forestry Advisory Panel
INAFOR     Government created the National Forestry Institute
MAGFOR     Ministry of Environment to Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MARENA     Nicaraguan Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MHCP       Ministry of Finance and Public Finance
MIFIC      Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PROFOR     Nicaragua Sustainable Investment Promotion Project
PRORURAL   Nicaragua Rural Sector Program
PSR        Project Supervision Reports
SFIPO      Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office
TA         Technical Assistance
WWF        World Wildlife Fund

                          Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                        Country Director    Jane Armitage
                         Sector Manager     John Redwood
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Ricardo Tarifa

                                        NICARAGUA
                            Sustainable Forestry Investment Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          42

Project ID: P052080                                                  Project Name: Sustainable Forestry Investment Project
Team Leader: Ricardo L. B. Tarifa                                    TL Unit: LCSRF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Sustainable Forestry Investment Project                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-31600; TF-26845
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (68%); Central government administration (32%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/26/1998                                     Effective:                           05/25/1999
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR:                             02/26/2001
      Approval: 01/07/1999                                      Closing: 03/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MAGFOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Thomas B. Wiens
Team Leader at ICR:             Ricardo L. B. Tarifa                           Luis Constantino and Paola Agostini
ICR Primary Author:             Samuel Taffesse


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The development objectives of the Nicaragua Sustainable Investment Promotion Project
(PROFOR), according to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), were to: (a) improve the
Borrower's and private stakeholders' capacity to deal with forestry development issues; and (b)
develop alternative schemes to address the Borrower's long-term forestry issues.

General Background

3.1.2 Nicaraguan forest cover was shrinking and specific types of forests were in danger of
complete disappearance: By 1992, the forest cover of Nicaragua had been reduced to 4.3
million hectares from 7 million hectares and was continuing to disappear at a rate of between 1.6
and 3.9% per year. In 1994, the National Environmental Action Plan of Nicaragua estimated that
within only 10 to 15 years, the remaining areas of productive broadleaf forests could be eliminated
if the trends were allowed to continue.        The observed trend in deforestation and accelerated
conversion of land to agriculture was driven, among others by:            (i) excessive demand for
agricultural land accelerated by the end of the war and return of peace to the near-forest zones
and demobilization of a large number of soldiers in the early 1990s; (ii) no tradition and lack of
economic incentives for forest management; (iii) low productivity and non-sustainable agricultural
practices; (iv) poorly defined land tenure; (v) lack of alternative employment; and (vi) a strong
agricultural tradition (and to a lesser extent livestock) where forests were considered an obstacle.

3.1.3 Institutional weakness was probably the main obstacle in forestry sector management:
Institutional weaknesses included:        (i) lack of scientific information base for the different
initiatives; (ii) insufficient participation of the different stakeholders and absence of adequate
coordination among the numerous interventions; (iii) lack of a capable and credible forestry sector
institution to gather the necessary technical knowledge, manage policy reform process and
prepare a coherent strategy for forestry management; and (iv) lack of institutional structure
responsible for bringing together supply and demand of the forestry sector to foster
commercialization, new technologies and new markets.

3.1.4 Weak forest management practice: Although forestry regulations have been in effect
since 1993, the system was incipient and weak. There were few Government forestry personnel
and a limited number of trained technical staff, those that existed were concentrated in Managua.
Notwithstanding the level of studies done in the sector, there were no systematically organized
data on resource abundance, distribution and regenerative capacity, neither for forest cover or
forest use specifically for the humid tropics.        An additional weakness was observed in the
management of fuel wood, which accounted for 60% of the net energy consumption in 1992.
Sales of fuel wood constituted a significant income generating activity among the rural poor.
Although it was not certain that fuel wood harvesting constituted a forest degrading activity, the
harvesting and production of fuel wood was unmanaged and there was potential that it might
become a forest degrading activity.

3.1.5 Forest fires were an additional major problem throughout the country. Slash and burn
agriculture for clearing trees was widely practiced. As in other Central American countries, forest


                                                  - 2 -

fires were part of the silvicultural practice in Nicaragua. In addition, due to the lack of knowledge
and capacity, major forest fires were an often occurring phenomena. Between December 1997
and April 1998 alone, according to FAO, "more than 13 000 fires burned in Nicaragua, the most
in any Central American country, destroying vegetation on more than 800,000 ha of land. The
Nicaraguan Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) recorded over 11 000
fires in the month of April 1998 alone."1 The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) gave an
account of an incidence in 1998 that forced the closure of Managua International Airport on
several occasions due to loss of visibility from the smoke of forest fires. In fact, it was reported
that the incidence of respiratory illnesses increased in the capital as an aftermath of this same
event.

3.1.6 The forestry sector in Nicaragua was well researched and had received substantial
multi-and bi-lateral assistance. However, the considerable body of knowledge that existed was
not transformed into concrete actions that could contribute to sustainable forest management.
According to the PAD, activities in the forestry sector were "primarily public sector initiative[s]
with a heavy focus on increasing public expenditure into the sector to improve management and
achieve conservation and sustainability." However, the effort did not result in substantial success
mainly due to institutional weakness and lack of stakeholders participation.

Assessment of Project Objectives

3.1.7 The Government of Nicaragua's (GON) overarching goal in the forestry sector was to
reverse the trends on natural resource degradation and ensure that the forestry sector
contributed to social and economic development.             The Government created the National
Forestry Institute (INAFOR) and transferred the responsibility for policy formulation for the
forestry sector from the Ministry of Environment to Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAGFOR). The Government's strategy for the forestry sector identified five priorities: (i)
establishing a foundation for economic development of the forest industry under strict
management norms (e.g. certification); (ii) development of productive natural forest management;
(iii) sustainable forestry to include the management and conservation of protected areas; (iv)
reforestation; and (v) development of forest industry by promoting gradual development of
value-added processing.

3.1.8 The project was selective in addressing forestry sector issues: The project planned to
address the lack of an action program to improve the forestry sector environment and jump-start
the development of the sector through initiatives by non-governmental stakeholders while
assisting Government in the definitions of policy, norms, strategy and the role of the newly
created INAFOR (including aspects relevant to the potential for the development of carbon
sequestration mechanisms). Further, the project planned to assist the GON's effort in building
consensus on the appropriate mechanisms in coordinating investment in sustainable forest
management.

3.1.9 The need for a forestry project was justified: The rational for the project was justified by
the need to: (i) build the institutional capacity of the private sector and of the Government in
preparation for a large scale program; (ii) realize the full potential of the forestry sector to



                                                  - 3 -

contribute to Nicaragua's economic development, which was limited due to lack of viable
technical, financial, social and environmental solutions; and (iii) experiment and pilot innovative
subprojects to determine alternative schemes, technical solutions and policy interventions.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The objective of the project remained the same.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry. (US$2.7
        million or 18% of total project cost).

3.3.1 This component was aimed at establishing a capacity that would allow the realization of
the improved management of forest and land resources in Nicaragua in the short-run, and to
provide the experience, knowledge, organizational and institutional basis on which a scaled-up
forestry program could be based in the longer-term. To achieve this stated goal, the component
was expected to finance technical assistance, training, workshops, studies, office equipment and
supplies, vehicles, and the operational expenses of the Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion
Office (SFIPO) that was to be created by a Ministerial resolution. Activities under this component
included: (a) the development of certification policy and pertinent national criteria as a means to
achieve sustainable forest management and reach new markets, training of certification officers
and the design of cost-sharing schemes; (b) the promotion and facilitation of sustainable private
forestry investments; (c) the introduction and transfer, to interested investors, of new forestry
technologies and best practices; (d) the development of financial and economic incentives
necessary to integrate small-holders into productive forestry activities; (e) the identification of
key public investments which would facilitate private sector forestry activities; (f) the
establishment of a national forest information system including remote sensing imagery; and (g)
the provision of training, marketing and communication outreach campaigns, for communities and
other stakeholders.

Component 2 - Assistance To Forestry Sector Institutional Reform (US$1.3 million or 8.6% of
total project cost)

3.3.2 This component was aimed at supporting MAGFOR to discharge its legal mandate as the
responsible Government entity for forestry. The component was planned to finance technical
assistance, training, studies, workshops, public consultations, and publications. Activities under
this component included:

a)      Strengthening MAGFOR and INAFOR to: (i) create internal capacity for the development
of forest policy, norms, and procedures; (ii) assist in the elaboration of a strategy to develop a
national forest policy and related norms and procedures; and (iii) to implement a participatory
process to build consensus and garner strong support around the development of a forestry
strateg;.

b)      Supporting MIFIC (Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce), an institution
responsible for designing forest concession policies, technical and administrative norms and
procedures in developing rules and regulations for forest concessions in public land;


                                               - 4 -

c)      Assisting CONADES (National Commission for Sustainable Development) in the
development of an enabling national policy framework for forestry activities for participation in
the carbon sequestration market.

Component 3 -Pilot Subprojects: (US$10 million or 66.7% of total project cost)

3.3.3 This component was aimed at developing and testing innovative activities and new
mechanisms for finding solutions to priority forestry sector problems, including innovative models
for reforestation and land rehabilitation, forest resource management (certification, eco-labeling),
increasing decentralization of forestry functions, public-private sector partnerships, and creative
financing mechanisms for sustainable forest management and reforestation. The component was
designed to finance, on a cost-sharing basis, a program of grants to the private sector,
non-governmental organizations, communities and municipalities to carry out the pilot
sub-projects which included specific actions for monitoring and evaluating the results of
implementation.

Project Component 4. Project Administration(US$1 million or 6.7% of total project cost)

3.3.4 This component was planned to finance the activities of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) structured under MAGFOR. The PCU was assigned the overall responsibility for project
administration, coordination between MAGFOR and other relevant Government institutions
(MARENA, MIFIC, MHCP, CONADES, and INIFOM), and the usual operational requirements.
The component was planned to finance the cost of additional expertise as required and the cost of
the meetings of the Project Steering Committee.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 There were no revisions to the components of the project. The two amendments extended
the closing date to a cumulative 15-month period and made adjustments to cost categories that
reflected project execution requirements.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5..1 The project design was anchored in the philosophy that deforestation was caused due
to low economic value attached to forest products, as perceived by farmers and landowners.
Indeed the PAD emphasized the absence of commercial values as a key factor in deforestation.
This point was fashionably demonstrated by the following single quotation that was given
prominence in the PAD.

      It is clearly worth noting the observation (still true) made several years ago in a SIDA report
      on the forest sector (de Vylder, 1992): "Demand for commercial timber... is not a main
      factor of deforestation in Nicaragua, trees are not being cut down because they are
      valuable, but rather because they lack commercial value. Unless a good market for
      forestry products can be developed, trees will be continued to be looked upon as obstacles
      to agriculture, and be cut down or burnt down, since they represent no economic benefit
      for the landowner or shifting cultivator."



                                                 - 5 -

3.5.2 Thus, the project emphasized the importance of bringing the forest resources of the
country under sustainable management. Based on several studies carried before the project and
the problems identified through the various researches, the project set out to find innovative
activities that would benefit the forest dwellers, producers, landowners and the Government in
generating economic benefit within the framework of sustainable management.            The project
design also incorporated the need to couple innovative activities with institutional development
(including formulation of law, elaboration of a strategy and defining policy and norms) consistent
with sustainable management.

3.5.3 The project was aligned with two of the CAS' objectives: (i) developing the rural sector
through exploitation of the country's abundant natural resources (forest and forest products); and
(ii) consolidating growth through sector development (forest). Initially the project was conceived
as a component of the Land Administration Project (Credit No. 3665-NI), however the
Government expressed interest in having a separate forestry project justified by the importance of
the forestry sector for Nicaragua's development and the urgency for reforestation and land
rehabilitation activities after the disaster caused by Hurricane Mitch.

3.5.4 Based on six major criteria, the project identified priority geographic areas and
thematic priorities for pilot subprojects. Identification ofying the areas of intervention was one
of the mechanisms the project team used to minimize risks to project implementation. In addition,
the PAD identified important risks that the project could face. Interestingly, the project also
identified principal actors in forestry and their role in project implementation, in general and by
component specifically. With the aim of overcoming the low level in-country capacity, the project
design included the establishment of an International Forestry Advisory Panel (IFAP) with at least
three world-class experts on forestry sector and sustainable development.

3.5.5 Lessons learned from Bank financed projects were reflected in project design. Lessons
reflected in the design include: (i) the implementation of successful policy reforms requires
widespread and meaningful participation of both the private sector and communities; (ii) achieving
results requires expanding knowledge; (iii) changing and influencing institutions fundamentally
involves changing institutional cultures, the knowledge base and informal modes of interaction,
(iv) there is a need for ownership of the project by the Government and involvement of
beneficiaries, interested parties and the public. The design incorporated several other relevant
lessons.2

3.5.6 Sufficient consideration was given to environmental and social issues. To avoid the
potential negative impacts of subprojects, the project design planned to classify subprojects
according to their environmental impact. Additional measures were identified to control these
risks. Special consideration was given to indigenous groups' issues by allocating resources that
specifically cater to indigenous communities, thereby helping them improve their capacity in forest
management. Also, the project developed an indigenous development plan through extensive
consultation that was complemented by studies undertaken through other projects (e.g. Atlantic
Biological Project). To reduce risks to the project, PROFOR made the strategic choice to work
in areas where land titling issues have been resolved.




                                                   - 6 -

3.5.7 However, the project design had some limitations. For a start, the design was optimistic
in planning to transfer SFIPO to the private sector after its establishment by Ministerial Decree
under MAGFOR. The need for establishing an institute that caters to the needs of the private
sector was the expressed interest of stakeholders in the forestry sector. However, the project
design planned to establish this entity (SFIPO) within the project to be later set apart as an
independent institution, financed and managed by the private sector. However, once the private
sector enjoys government services free of charge, it is usually difficult to convince them to
underwrite the cost of administering the unit. Probably, the design should have considered
installing the unit independently with initial support from the project. In addition, even if the unit
was institutionalized under the private sector, it would have required a detailed analyses and the
establishment of a mechanism where the "free-rider" problem could be avoided, which the design
lacked. An additional minor weakness related to the elaboration of the logical framework was
that it lacked a detailed list of indicators. However, the PAD included, as a disbursement
condition, the establishment of a system for monitoring subprojects and included evaluation as
part of the exercise to integrate successful experiences into the long-term forestry development
plan of the country. The PAD also outlined three effectiveness conditions.

3.5.8 Overall, the project relied on several available studies for its analysis, was aligned to the
CAS and reflected the Government's objectives and priorities in the sector. In addition, the
project was ready for implementation as exemplified by the time taken for effectiveness
(four-months) after approval by the Bank's Board.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcome ­ Satisfactory.

4.1.1 The most important contribution of the project was in creating the initial impetus towards
a cultural change in the attitudes of rural dwellers. Although transformation of perception in
valuation of forests requires a long-term engagement, the project contribution was evident in the
observed new momentum towards such a shift. The project introduced innovative mechanisms of
alternative forest management and demonstrated that sustainable forest management does not
preclude generating economic benefits. As stated at the outset of project design (See section 3.5
above on Quality at Entry), the project set out to change the perception of the commercial value
of forests. For the most part, at least in areas where the project was active, forests are now seen
as a source of potential livelihood earning, unlike the without the project situation, where forests
were perceived as impediments to the expansion of the agricultural frontier.

4.1.2 The project also ushered in a new thinking in the public sector, which for the most part,
was geared towards control and enforcement without incentive mechanisms to change the
perception and culture of stakeholders in the sector

4.1.3 PROFOR contributed directly in reducing erosion through reforestation in erosion-prone
areas and the expansion of forests under management (more than 47,000 ha). The project
contributed to reducing deforestation, inter alia, through several activities, which included;
support in establishing forest control posts, the introduction of new technology in livestock farms,



                                                 - 7 -

an improved system of house construction, alternative income generation from non-wood forest
products and expansion of forests under management. The project impact also included improved
availability and enhancement in water quality as part of its reconstruction activity in the aftermath
of Hurricane Mitch in selected areas.

4.1.4 By way of demonstrating project impact using indicators (for detail indicators see Annex
1), the project supported the creation of 149 small-reservoirs to harvest water for multiple use,
established 31 micro-irrigation (with drip irrigation) systems which contributed to an increase in
water availability and an improvement in water quality. The project supported the creation of 113
local forest fire brigades to address one of the major factors that contributed to the degradation of
Nicaragua's forests. In the year 2000, INAFOR registered 4,645 forest fires in the country, still a
high number but a huge reduction from the period before the project ­ in the month of April 1998
alone, 11,000 forest fires were registered (more than 236% of the total number of forest fires for
the whole year of 2000).

4.1.5 The benefits that accrued to the forest custodian range from; increased income (it is
estimated, for example, 5 subprojects involved in product transformation and value-added
production, generated US$116,300 between 2001 and 2003), reduced vulnerability to landslides,
and improved efficiency (the time needed for production of tree seedlings, for instance, reduced
by 65 percent, compared to prevalent methods).           The project has also contributed to the
strengthening of social capital, especially among indigenous groups that are now managing their
forestlands.

4.1.6 Product diversification was introduced in a number of farms. Before the project, the
expansion of livestock was one factor contributing to deforestation. The project introduced a
new system of livestock activity. There are now 25 livestock farms that have adapted three types
of silvopastoral models.3 In a representative silvopastoral farm, for example, the cost of milk
production per cow reduced by US$0.12 (a 44% reduction)4 and the average annual livestock
feeding cost per farm reduced by almost one-half from an average US$24,225.9 to US$12,752.5.
The system has garnered wide acceptance and is expected to be widely replicated by more
livestock ranchers. The project also introduced four models of agro-forestry in degraded areas,
which contributed to land rehabilitation.

4.1.7 An additional example of efficiency is demonstrated by the gains made in combating forest
plagues. The project undertook pilot subprojects to demonstrate methods of rehabilitation of
forests affected by plagues (660 ha).       The provision of TA in the restoration, control and
recuperation of trees affected by plagues eliminated the cost of forest replacement (if at all the
land is re-dedicated to forest plantation). The project also developed norms for plague prevention
and control that is now under utilization in areas that are prone to disease. A total of 1,000 ha
were brought under a plague prevention plan.              Further contributions to environmental
conservation were made from the introduction of nursery technology that reduced the use of
plastics and soils in favor of recyclable and bio-degradable materials, thereby reducing the
importation of plastics for plant propagation and lowering the cost of production. The project was
also instrumental in promoting non-wood forest products such as artesian products that are
friendly to forests. For example, export of cane furniture now amounts to US$5.7 million per
year.5



                                                 - 8 -

4.1.8 Before this project, the Government policy was stacked against forestry in favor of
agriculture. With the aim of improving production, especially food crops, the policy encouraged
farm expansion, which unleashed an intrusion of cultivation into forestlands. PROFOR has
championed the idea that the forestry sector can contribute to economic development as a result
of which it has found its way in to the government policy. In fact, one of the PRSC's criteria for
transition to the second phase was the establishment of at least two districts under sustainable
forest management. While the project fully financed these first two pilot forest districts, the
Government, encouraged by the results, is planning to extend the program to additional eight
forest districts, for which PROFOR has financed training and equipment.

4.1.9 Some of the additional impacts of the project include:

Ø       An improvement in the quality of wood products that won PROFOR the XIV
International European Award for quality6, which provided the opportunity for creating awareness
in international markets about Nicaraguan forest products, which in turn improved the
competitiveness;
Ø       The establishment of standards and mechanisms for carbon sequestration and the definition
of three projects that are ready for financing by international donors (traders in carbon);
Ø       An improvement in the control of illegal activities and enforcement of the rules and
regulations;
Ø        The establishment of a Forest Information System for the provision of information,
technical documents and training through the web page of the project, which as of June 2004 had
registered 20,566 users;
Ø       A reduction in the time needed for the approval of management plans due to a new
streamlined licensing process;
Ø       The decentralization of forest management and the introduction of a user-fees mechanism;
and
Ø       The establishment of an improved forestry sector monitoring system that will be the basis
for planning, analysis, and identification of territorial development issues and for calculation of
deforestation rates.

4.1.10 Other factors may have also contributed positively, albeit indirectly, to the observed
project impacts. These factors included the culmination of the war, a shift from cotton farming to
forest (due to degradation of the land and un-profitability of cotton cultivation) and an increase in
the amount of land left for natural regeneration. Other projects, supported by other international
agencies, were active in the forestry sector. However, this project was the single most important
catalyst in the observed cultural shift in valuing forests, in addressing policy distortions, in
strengthening institutional capacity, and in supporting the development of a long-term forest
strategy and program..

4.1.11 It is the conclusion of this ICR that the project impacts are resilient and will continue to
bear more benefits. The project opened the possibility of generating economic benefits within the
framework of sustainable management. The economic benefit realized was a key factor in the
creation of constituents of beneficiaries that will protect the gains they have made through the



                                                 - 9 -

new paradigm in forestry development. This is demonstrated, in one of many ways, through the
wide acceptance of the project among stakeholders, formation of forums and the expansion of
plantation forests by the private sector (see section 6.1.2). Since the Government aim is to ensure
that the forestry sector contributes to the country's economic development, which this project
demonstrated remarkably, there is no risk of policy shift. In fact, the Government aim is to
scale-up the gains made through this project, making the project outcomes nationally relevant. In
addition, as demonstrated in different seminars7 a strong consensus has been established among
the different actors involved in the forestry sector. The activities pioneered through this project
are what the future of forest management in Nicaragua will build upon.

4.1.12 The World Summit on Sustainable Development reported that: "[t]he achievement of
sustainable forest management, nationally and globally, including through partnerships among
interested Governments and stakeholders, including the private sector, indigenous and local
communities and non-governmental organizations, is an essential goal of sustainable
development..."8 The project successfully created such partnerships and alliances, which bodes
well for the relevance of the project outcomes.

4.1.13 The project successfully addressed the main bottlenecks in sustainable management of
forest in Nicaragua.    The achievement of the project objectives can be assessed from the
perspective of advances made towards the two main stated objectives of the project: (a) improve
the Borrower's and private stakeholders' capacity to deal with forestry development issues; and
(b) develop alternative schemes to address the Borrower's long-term forestry issues.

Objective 1: Improve the Borrower's and private stakeholders' capacity to deal with forest
development issues. Satisfactory

4.1.14 Nicaragua, through the support of this project, has now developed an improved capacity
and is better equipped to deal with forest development issues.          The country improved its
institutional capacity and arrangements, developed a clear strategy and policy, and promulgated
an effective forest law and norms. The project supported the formulation of a forestry law that
was approved in 2003, which clearly defined the role and responsibilities of the different
organizations and stakeholders involved in forest resource management. PROFOR was
instrumental not only in the development of the forestry strategy that was approved in 2004, but
also in consensus building around the new strategy. INAFOR was strengthened through the
provision of training, and modern equipment, both at the center and for its decentralized
structures. PROFOR also supported the alignment of INAFOR's activities with other institutions.
The project supported MAG-FOR in the formulation of forest policy and the elaboration of
forestry regulatory norms.     The project financed high-level international forestry experts to
provide TA in crafting an innovative forestry sector strategy and policy.

4.1.15 The project supported decentralization that brought forestry technicians close to the forest
resources, producers and users. In addition to the decentralization of staff, delegation of a
commensurate power to local authorities to manage forests has begun in earnest. A critical mass
of professionals was created through the provision of training on all aspects of sustainable forest
management and support to higher learning institutions, including the financing of students'



                                                - 10 -

theses. The support to the preparation of the students' theses aligned their studies to the vexing
problem the country faces and provided students the opportunity to work on practical issues in
the forestry sector. To improve the capacity in marketing of forest products, the project financed
the participation of the private sector in 6 (200% of the target) international trade shows wherein
34 (263% of the target) businesses participated. In addition, SFIPO provided support to 70
organizations in subproject preparation. A total of 624 (248% of the target) events in provision
of different levels of training and TA were conducted. The project also supported 3 forest
product tradeshows at the national level.

4.1.16 The private sector is now better informed and trained in alternative technologies (such as
silvopastoral, agro-forestry, plague control, etc.), management techniques of plantations, the
preparation of business plans, international market requirements, and is now organized as a
consortium. Private investors now have a full understanding of the forestry law, norms and policy
of the Government.

Objective 2: Develop alternative schemes to address the Borrower's long-term forestry issues.
Highly Satisfactory

4.1.17 While supporting the improvement of institutional and structural problems as part of
objective 1, the project delivered a remarkable array of alternative mechanisms that would address
the Government's expressed interest. These innovative mechanisms enshrined in a system of
knowledge in the management of the Nicaraguan forestry sector.            The private sector, local
communities and the public sector have embraced these innovative approaches.

4.1.18 The alternative schemes addressed both the supply and demand issue and combined both
incentive mechanisms and enforcement of the law. Through matching-grants, the project worked
on the supply side of the balance sheet by: expanding plantation forestry; saving plague infected
forests; introducing agro-forestry and silvopastoral techniques; and by demonstrating new
technology in nursery production of seedlings; among others. On the demand side the project:
increased value-added production at the local level, thereby raising incomes, which has already
provided signals of reduced intrusion to forest lands; introduced fast growing varieties to be
planted around dwellings to satisfy the demand for fuel food; supported the preparation work to
participate in carbon markets; and established official forest control posts. Institutionally, the
alternative schemes also relied heavily on decentralization both for enforcement and provision of
service in an efficient manner.     In addition to overcoming degradation of the national resource,
the project supported the establishment of local forest fire brigades.

4.1.19 The project financed the implementation of 49 subprojects.           These subprojects were
strategic interventions to demonstrate alternative schemes aimed at drawing lessons that will
address future forest management throughout the country.           These experimental subprojects
supported: (i) diversification of products within existing forest and livestock land; (ii) plantation
of trees with improved quality of wood products; (iii) reforestation activities; (iv) reduction in the
consumption of fuel wood through improved kitchen stoves; (v) introduction of better
management in existing forest lands; (vi) defining and piloting carbon sequestration for
international financing; (vii) introduction of new technology in nursery and plant production; (viii)



                                                 - 11 -

housing construction using bamboo trees from silvopastoral and agro-forestry farms. (The
innovative subprojects are discussed in detail under component C).

4.1.20 The Logical Framework for the project identified three major indicators to measure the
achievement of the DO. The three indicators that were successfully implemented were: (i)
policies and strategies for the forestry sector were developed and, through extensive consultation,
a consensus was built among the principal stakeholders; (ii) SFIPO did exemplary work in
providing demand-driven service to non-governmental forestry sector stakeholders. This unit was
responsible for evaluating and screening innovative subproject proposals presented for financing,
and did a remarkable job of monitoring the implementation of these subprojects; (iii) results of the
subprojects were evaluated, but there was a delay in integrating the findings into long-term
forestry planning.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry. (US$2.56
million or 94.8% of the appraisal estimate). Satisfactory

4.2.1 This component supported private sector development in the forestry sector through
training that catered to their specific needs. Support also included provision of improved varieties
of trees for plantations, enhancing value-added products and the introduction of new
technologies. The component also provided training to indigenous groups to improve their
capacity in the management of forestlands and to generate livelihoods consistent with sustainable
management principles.

4.2.2 One of the outputs of this component was the establishment of SFIPO, which in
coordination with project Unit, provided an excellent service in the implementation of this and the
pilot subprojects components. Out of the 48 institutions that participated in the strategic alliance
for the forestry sector, 30 are from the private sector, which demonstrates the success of the
project in attracting and including the private sector in project activities. Specific outputs of this
component included:

(a)     Provided a combined total of 531 trainings through courses and workshops (374% of
original target) benefiting 7,636 trainees (382%);
(b)     Supported the training of 118 extension agents (118%);
(c)     Strengthened the capacity of local communities in managing their resources, improved
their access to markets, provided forums and enhanced their participation in decisions related to
the forestry sector; Local communities were also trained in subproject proposal preparation
including in the methodology of Logical Framework;
(d)     Development of a certification policy that supports the private sector in accessing new
markets (both domestic and international);
(e)     Supported private sector capacity growth by: improving access to international markets;
fostering an exchange of experience and knowledge with 11 external businesses that showed
interest to participate in a joint-venture; financing the participation of the private sector in 6
international trade shows; coordinating the selection of subprojects (financed under Component
C); and providing training in the formulation of business plans and proposals for subprojects;
(f)     Established a national forest information system including remote sensing imagery. The


                                                 - 12 -

web site (http://www.sifor.gob.ni/index.htm?contenido.htm&0) was visited by almost 25,000
visitors; and
(g)     Conducted training, marketing and communication outreach campaigns for communities
and other stakeholders.

Component 2 - Assistance To Forestry Sector Institutional Reform (US$2.09 million or
160.8% of appraisal) Satisfactory

4.2.3 The support of the project enabled MAGFOR to discharge its legal mandate as the
responsible Government entity for the forestry sector. In order to overcome past failures and to
deal with factors that contributed to the miserable results of past interventions, early in its
implementation the project ensured the effective participation of stakeholders. The formulation of
the forestry law and the development of the sectoral strategy were widely discussed and
consensus formed. Through the support from international experts, specific studies deemed
necessary for improving the capacity of MAGFOR and INAFOR were conducted. The project
also financed office equipment, vehicles and other logistical supports to both institutions. The
component supported decentralization of INAFOR into 10 forestry districts, which was
instrumental in the provision of critical technical support to municipalities and most importantly in
improving service provision and enforcement of the forest law and its regulatory procedures.

4.2.4 The project also supported MIFIC in the development of forest concession policies, rules
and regulations for the 1.5 million ha of public forestland. Technical assistance was provided to
CONADES in the development of an enabling national policy framework for the participation of
the Nicaraguan forestry sector in the carbon sequestration market. The project widely circulated
the studies and the methodologies developed as part of its knowledge dissemination and
awareness building so that those with potential could be able to participate in international carbon
trade.

The main outputs of this component were:

Ø       Supported forest law formulation, strategy development, policy definition and elaboration,
and the associated consensus building around these issues;
Ø       Developed a long-term program for the forestry sector--that was included in the GON's
National Development Plan;
Ø       Strengthened INAFOR and MAGFOR through a wide range of support;
Ø       Supported MIFIC, CONADES and MARENA in discharging their respective duties and
responsibilities related to forestry;
Ø       Enhanced the participation of NGOs by supporting their involvement in forestry decision
making and by financing the execution of their innovative proposals; and,
Ø       Supported learning institutions in new technologies introduction by commissioning studies
important to the sector and by integrating forestry students into the public and private sectors'
subprojects and management activities;




                                                 - 13 -

Component 3 -Pilot Subprojects: (US$7.73 million or 77% of appraisal estimate) Highly
Satisfactory

4.2.5 This component was the outcome of the realization that in the absence of an incentive
mechanism and alternative technology, control and regulation alone couldn't address the
ever-expanding problems that Nicaraguan forestry faced before this project. The component
proved that there was no shortage of innovative ideas aimed at establishing an alternative forest
management system anchored in sustainability principle.       In addition this component supported
subprojects which included emergency works that the Government was eager to implement as
part of its assistance to poor areas affected by Hurricane Mitch.

4.2.6 The component co-financed 49 subprojects aimed at developing and testing innovative
activities and new mechanisms for finding solutions to priority forestry sector problems and in
rehabilitating selected micro-watersheds. The huge acceptance and success of this mechanism is
demonstrated by: (i) the number of subproject proposals presented for financing (180, i.e. almost
4 proposals for each subproject executed); and (ii) the level of counterpart contribution made by
beneficiaries, which reached 48% (or US$3.9million).9 The counterpart contribution would be
much higher if in-kind contributions were included.

4.2.7 Subprojects can be grouped in to six broad categories: (i) Expansion and conservation of
forestlands through reforestation with multiple use, mixed and pure plantations with different
technologies, control and prevention of forest fires and management plans, and improved tree
seedlings;     (ii) establishment of agro-forestry and silvopastoral systems; (iii) sustainable
management of forests, both natural and secondary; (iv) development of forest products through
processing and commercialization; (v) research and studies to help product marketing, etc.,
associated with the above four categories; and (vi) emergency works in natural disasters and
construction works.

4.2.8 The emergency work, which was executed with the cooperation of FAO, implemented
works in the rehabilitation of micro-watersheds. Under this subcomponent, 700 families living in
the most affected areas benefited from the project. The project implemented conservation works,
organized farmers, financed the planting of trees, construction of houses using better technology
and bamboo, and water infrastructures, among others, in the selected micro-watersheds.

4.2.9 The outputs from this component included: (details are given under Annex 1)

    a. production of an estimated 10 million seedlings with improved technology and higher
        product quality using biodegradable recycled elements ­ 111% of original targets;
    b. plantation of an estimated 9,800 ha to help reduce and control erosion ­ 155% of goal;
    c. establishment of drip micro-irrigation systems that enhanced water efficiency;
    d. construction of 52 water collecting wells (ditches) ­ 208% of target;
    e. The introduction and establishment of production diversification in 3,500 farms (140% of
        original goal) that included 3 silvopastoral and 4 agro-forestry models;
    f. demonstration of efficient wood consumption by supporting the establishment of 81
        improved kitchens and stoves;



                                                 - 14 -

    g. additional outputs include: (i) areas brought under forest management (38,210ha or 238%
         of target); (ii) protein banks established (312 ha or 223% of target); (iii) new wood drying
         technology established (6 or 300% of original estimate); (iv) nursery technology verified
         (3); (v) reservoirs for water harvesting constructed (in 149 sites) and support in wood
         commercialization (895m3 or 21% of target).

4.2.10 The review of the relevant documents made as part of the preparation of this ICR (reports
from field visits, review of subprojects, frequency of reporting) reveals that the implementation of
these subprojects was monitored closely with the collaboration of the different co-financers (grant
receivers) that included private sector, non-governmental organizations, communities, learning
institutions and municipalities.

4.2.11 Based on the quantitative outputs achieved and the impact this component had on the
overall forestry sector, and specifically on the direct beneficiaries, the component is rated as
Highly Satisfactory.

4.2.12 Supporting commercialization was one of the main activities of the component and the
project. However, the commercialization indicator illustrates a much lower achievement. The
reason for the low figure of commercialization, the PCU staff believes, was due to lack of
reporting mechanisms in activities the private sector undertook independently once they achieved
the necessary capacity building and introduction to international markets. The export of forest
products, for example, increased from US$5 million in 1994 to US$17 million in 2002,10 according
to an independent study commissioned by FAO. Thus, the PCU argument is that, as a result of
the initial activities of the project, but independent of subproject activities of PROFOR, the
private sector has achieved the output. This argument is found to be realistic and it is the finding
of this ICR that the private sector is not suffering from lack of demand, in fact, it has yet to
commit itself to supply different markets that have shown interest in Nicaragua wood products.

Project Component 4. Project Administration (US1.13 million or 113% of appraisal estimate)
Highly Satisfactory

4.2.13 The PCU implemented all the tasks that were assigned to it and did a remarkable job of
monitoring the different subprojects.         The unit also successfully coordinated the different
institutions that participated in the project and stakeholders in the sector. In addition, the project
managed several studies, provided the necessary support to the public sector institutions
including, MAGFOR, MARENA, MIFIC, MHCP, CONADES, and INIFOM.                            By financing
dissertations that were specific to subprojects or subjects, the PCU pioneered a cost effective and
rapid feedback mechanism.           With a minimal cost, this mechanism allowed the project
administration to closely monitor its subprojects and develop insights into the functioning of the
new approach in specific localities.

4.2.14 In most Bank projects that finance subproject grants, administration cost have usually
shown to be higher than eight percent of total project cost that this project spent. It is a credit to
the creativity and efficiency of the project team that no cost overrun was observed in this project.
In addition to financing the theses of graduating students from higher learning institutions, the



                                                  - 15 -

project partnered with other financers, such as Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), in the
implementation of innovative subprojects.

4.2.15 The unit has done a remarkable job in implementing the project per the design of the
project and additional activities it pioneered, however, it did not get the appropriate cooperation
and support from the Government in institutionalizing SFIPO. It was a credit to the Unit that the
tasks planned to be implemented by SFIPO were integrated into the works of the Forestry
Cluster, the Consortium of Forest Exporters, the Consortium of Reforestation, CONICEFV (
Consejo de Certificación Forestal Voluntaria), among others.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The project has created a lasting institutional impact. There is an observable cultural shift
towards valuing forests as an economic, social and environmental resource, unlike the situation
before the project wherein forests were considered as impediments to the expansion of
agriculture. Notable institutional impacts, which the project actively supported and promoted,
include: the formulation of forest policy; the development of new forest law; the elaboration of a
long-term forestry development plan and the development of a forest management strategy; and
the streamlining of implementation and enforcement activities into MAGFOR's structure. The
simplification of legal requirements, rules and norms, such as in registration and certification, was
among the main immediate impact of the above institutional development efforts. The project
also improved the capacity of local communities and integrated their activities with regional and
national forestry enterprises. The project also supported the formation of a forestry cluster (
Cluster Forestal) composed of more than 13 major forestry enterprises; the Consortium of
Forestry Exporters, the Consortium of Reforestation to support the activities of the private sector.
These groupings have already become an important institutional component in the activities of the
private sector, such as in the dissemination of specific information to their members, promoting
the activities of their constituencies and improving access to markets, among others. The project
also institutionalized carbon trading and concessions into the work of MIFIC, CONADES and
MARENA by developing norms, rules and regulations for public land forests. The creation of the
Council for Voluntary Forestry Certification (CONICEFV) was an additional institutional
outcome of PROFOR.

4.5.2 The GON has initiated effective decentralization that has delegated managerial,
monitoring, enforcement and provision of technical support services to the local level.
Decentralization also entailed that management of forests is conducted at local level that included
the approval of local management plans and control of the transport and exploitation of forest
products to ensure that forest products are legal.            The Government commitment to
decentralization is demonstrated by its plan to expand forest management to eight additional
forest districts.




                                                - 16 -

4.5.3 Decentralization of forest management has created the potential to improve institutional
efficiency. INAFOR in the process of completing the establishment of offices in the 10 forest
districts that allow it to support the management of forests from close quarters. Before the
project, the law established 30 days as the minimum time requirement necessary for approving
forest management plans. However, in practice it took a minimum of 6 months, and sometimes a
year, for the approval to be processed. With the support of this project and the decentralization
of decision-making to the local level, the maximum days necessary were reduced to fifteen. If the
approval or response is not provided to the applicant within 15 days, the plan is understood to
have been automatically accepted and approved and will have the full backing of the forest law.
Due to this improvement a large number of farms are being certified. By 2003, there were a total
of 321 farms with approved management plans. The explosion of this figure is evident when one
considers that in 1999 only 53 plans were approved. Within one year this figure jumped to 155 (a
292% increase).

4.5.4 The pilot subprojects were also instrumental in improving the capacity of participating
organizations (private sector, NGOs, learning institutions, communities and municipalities) in the
management of their respective forestlands and forestry activities. To integrate agriculture with
forestry, the project supported the training of extension agents in forest management. These
specialized trainings, coupled with the financing of graduating students' studies in forestry (33
dissertations out of which 4 were doctoral theses), have created a critical mass of professionals in
the forestry sector.    Students who benefited from the project in the preparation of their
dissertations have now begun working in the forestry sector including as staff of INAFOR.
Cooperation with learning institutions included research in specific subjects and localities, such as
a feasibility study of commercial reforestation in 5 municipalities, that was later included in the
land use planning of the same municipalities.         Through several specialized trainings and
workshops, new cadres of forest management were trained and the capacity of the institutions
working in the sector was improved markedly.         Additional institutional impacts include the
institutionalization of forest fire brigades at the local level that significantly reduced the
occurrence of forest fires.

4.5.5 Information on new technology, marketing and other aspects of forest management were
widely disseminated and made accessible through the web site. In addition, the forest information
system that the project established is serving as a medium through which experiences and new
lessons are exchanged. The different stakeholders now work closely and important measures are
adapted through consensus with the full participation of representatives of forest dwellers.

4.5.6 The project financed a study for carbon trading under the framework of the Kyoto
Protocol that identified specific projects.    This has provided the institutions involved with
necessary knowledge and has established standards and instruments to conduct negotiations in
international markets for carbon trading. According to a study financed by FAO, the three
projects identified for carbon sequestration are estimated to generate a combined total of US$8.5
million.

4.5.7 One of the institutional limitations observed before this project was weakness in enforcing
existing forest legislation, which resulted in unabated deforestation. Through the creation of



                                               - 17 -

control posts, and most importantly due to changes in perception by the rural dwellers,
enforcement has markedly improved, more importantly in areas where the project was active. The
PCU reported that in districts with major forestry activities (Region Autonoma del Atlantico
Norte ­ RAAN and Nueva Segovia) the reduction in illegal forest exploitation has been up to 90
percent.

4.5.8 Specific to MAGFOR, several measures to improve the institutional capacity in dealing
with forestry sector issues were undertaken. The Ministry is now fitted with clear policy, strategy
and legal instruments.        The Ministry is better equipped (both with alternative intervention
mechanisms, logistical requirements and human resources) and can call upon the service of the
much improved semi-autonomous INAFOR. Importantly too MAGFOR now boasts of a diverse
set of partners and a decentralized structure that has the potential to improve service provisions.
Also, due to an improved monitoring system that the project established, MAGFOR is better
prepared to conduct planning, analysis and identification of territorial development. The project
also improved the institutional capacity of MAGFOR's procurement, financial management and
administrative capacity through the integration of experienced PROFOR's staff into the Ministry's
centralized unit.

4.5.9 The project's institutional impacts were evident at all levels -- national, regional and local.
The project effectively improved the institutional capacity of the forestry sector of Nicaragua. In
general, PROFOR supported or partnered with 9 public institutions: 5 municipalities; 1 regional
Government; 6 learning institutions; 15 producers organizations or community-owned businesses;
17 private enterprises; 3 national forestry organizations; and 7 international organizations that
included FAO, WWF, GTZ and IDB. As a result the project was able to incorporate the different
lessons learned from the array of institutions involved.

4.5.10 Thus, the institutional impact of the project is rated as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Due to an embargo by bi-lateral creditors to Nicaragua in 2002 the Bank was unable to
disburse the proceed of the Credit.        The overall impact of this delay was minimal, which was
corrected with the extension of the closing date of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 There were frequent changes in the position of Minister of MAGFOR during the
implementation of the project.          Although the Government remained true to its program, as
expressed through its policy documents, the recurrent changes in ministers had an impact in the
pace of project execution. Although no official requests to change project components were
made, some delays were experienced until the new ministers had evaluated the project from the
perspective of their priorities to the sector. Also, some ministers did not take an active role in
project implementation, especially in institutionalizing SFIPO.

5.2.2 During this project's implementation, the centralization of financial and procurement
administration under MAGFOR was instituted in place of independent administration for each



                                                     - 18 -

internationally supported project. During the transition period, there were some delays, however
it was a temporary phenomenon dictated by the transition and did not significantly affect project
implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 Some have criticized the project Unit for its reluctance to accommodate changes in
priorities following changes in ministers of MAGFOR. This is an unfair criticism, given that such
action would have compromised the project objectives. In addition, the project aim was to
introduce innovative mechanisms through learning subprojects and the project was not designed
as a broad sectoral investment project that could finance other activities in the rural sector.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 Out of the total IDA credit of XDR 6.4 million, an estimated 6,399,742.12 (or 99.9% of
the Credit) was disbursed. However, the Credit expressed in US$ was estimated to be US$9
million. Due to exchange rate fluctuations the final disbursement was US$8,537,426.47 (or
94.5% of the original estimate, as expressed in US Dollars). At the closing of the credit, the
Government's contribution reached US$1.2 million (112% of the original estimate ­ see Table 1
below).

5.4.2 As part of the extension of the closing date, a reallocation to categories of Credit was
made. No large diversion from the estimate made during the reallocation was observed. Initially,
there was a delay in disbursement. It is the determination of this ICR that the disbursement
estimate was optimistic and as such was a design problem. In the first year after effectiveness,
for example, an equivalent of 27% of the Credit was expected to be disbursed. Given the time
needed to establish a system, invite proposals for grants and studies, and familiarize the PCU with
the Bank's financial management and procurement procedure, it was unrealistic to expect a
substantial disbursement in the first year of implementation.

5.4.3 Overall costs by component were also in accordance with the appraisal estimate and the
reallocation made in April 2002.                                     In terms of allocation of the Credit among the different
activities, 28 % was allocated for the private sector, 20% to the public sector and 44% for
subprojects and the remaining 8% was allocated to project administration. Considering that the
private sector also benefited from the resources allocated to subprojects, it is clear that the project
gave prominence to improving the performance of the private sector. In addition, it is the
observation of this ICR that with only 8% of total project costs, the PCU coordinated and
implemented the project efficiently.

           Table 1. Project Cost by component and ratings.
                                                                                                                                  A c t u a l /
                                                                                     A p p r a i s a l  A c t u a l / L a t e s t A p p r a i s a l
                                    C o m p o n e n t                                E s t i m a t e    E s tim a t e             (% )                  R a t i n g
    T A t o P r i v a t e & C o m m u n a l S e c t o r F o r e s t r y                            2 . 7                 2 . 5 6               9 4 .8 1     S
    A s s i s t a n c e t o F o r e s t r y S e c t o r I n s t i t u t i o n a l
    R e f o r m                                                                                    1 . 3                 2 . 0 9            1 6 0 .7 7      S
    P i l o t S u b p r o j e c t                                                                   1 0                  7 . 7 3               7 7 .3 0   H S
    P r o j e c t A d m i n i s t r a t i o n                                                          1                 1 . 1 3            1 1 3 .0 0    H S
    T o t a l                                                                                       1 5               1 3 . 5 1                9 0 .0 7




                                                                                  - 19 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The outcomes of the project are more than likely to be sustainable. The Government has
remained committed to improving the management of the forestry sector so that the full potential
of the sector can be realized. The Government also remains committed to its policy, forestry law
and strategy as expressed in its National Development Plan. During project implementation, the
GON remained true to its commitment by fulfilling its financial obligation in the face of a
budgetary crunch. In addition, what bodes well for the sustainability of the project outcome is the
user-fee principle introduced through this project, as a result of which producers are increasingly
assuming the costs of administration and provision of technical assistance. INAFOR, for the most
part, financed its activities through certification and licensing fees, as well as penalties. For the
first time INAFOR is expected to receive a budgetary allocation from the Government that will
supplement its income from the above sources.

6.1.2 The existing policy environment has proved to be conducive for private sector investment,
as demonstrated by the expansion of plantations by the private sector. In the period covering
1990-1995, the private sector established 12,470ha of forest plantations. The comparable figure
for 1995-2000 was 20,633ha. By the end of 2000, this figure increased to 12,000ha/year (almost
equal to the total for the five year period covering 1990-1995). This clearly demonstrates that the
private sector has responded to the favorable policy environment, and thus future sustainability of
the outcome would be guaranteed.

6.1.3 The availability of a critical mass of professionals that can support the development of the
sector is another factor that will contribute to the sustainability of the outcome. There are now an
estimated 825 technicians and forest engineers in the country (and their number is increasing),
who will be instrumental in supporting sustainable forest management and scaling-up successful
lessons learnt. In addition, training was widely conducted, to the extent that local communities
are now responsible for managing their resources.

6.1.4 Another important factor that bodes well for sustainability is the cultural shift observed in
valuing forests resources as a source of livelihood earning. This is especially critical at the local
level, where illegal exploitation and sustainable management meet. Encouraged by the results
achieved through the pilot subprojects, local people have become assertive and have demonstrated
their interest in protecting their forest both from illegal logging and disasters, in the latter case by
forming forest fire brigades. Needless to say, subprojects that resulted in a flow of additional
income will be sustainable and provide sufficient incentives for the producers to maintain project
outcome.

6.1.5 The sustainable outcome of the project also depends on the performance of the
agricultural sector and improvements in the land tenure system. The GON was aware of the
importance of promoting a holistic approach in dealing with forestry sector problems.
Improvement in agricultural productivity was expected to halt the expansion of agriculture to
forest lands. Through the support of the Bank and other donors, the Government is implementing
an agricultural project11 and is keen to continue with a renewed program that includes forest
development under the umbrella of a rural development program. In addition, the Bank is



                                                  - 20 -

implementing a project whose objective is to improve the security of land tenure.12               To
complement these projects, the GON has also established a competitive fund (co-financed by
beneficiaries) as an incentive to finance subprojects. These multiple interventions would contribute
to the sustainability of the gains made through this project.

6.1.6 Thus, the risk of a policy shift is practically negligible since the Government has enough
incentives to continue with its policy. The project managed to reach stakeholders at the national,
regional and local levels. Institutionally, the country is much improved in dealing with forestry
issues. The project established that there is sufficient economic incentive (and legal disincentives)
for sustainable management of forests. The risks of a policy reverse, or returning to old practice
of destroying trees in favor of agriculture, is minimal. Thus, sustainability is rated as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 Transition arrangements differ across the beneficiaries of the project. Most subprojects
improved and transformed existing activities in the rural areas (such as livestock and nursery) that
do not need special transition arrangements. The private sector has already formed its network
support mechanisms which have reduced its reliance on public sector assistance. Communal
forest lands and forestry activities are now managed by local organizations. At the municipal
level, the activities have been incorporated into land use planning and therefore there is no special
need for transition arrangements.

6.2.2 Institutional responsibilities have been mainstreamed into INAFOR and MAGFOR
activities.  However, both these institutions need financial support to fully discharge their
responsibilities, especially to scale-up successful experiences. As a response, the Government is
preparing a rural sector program that includes a forestry component. In the mean time, other
donors are still active in the sector and will serve as transition to the next project. The PCU, with
only its core staff, is coordinating the preparation of the forestry component of the rural sector
program under preparation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank team that prepared the project should be lauded for daring to undertake such an
innovative project when the Bank forestry policy13 was dictated by a "do-no-harm" principle,
which according to OED made the Bank `irrelevant' in the management and development of
forest resources despite the institutions commitment to this objective.14 The Bank team, relying on
international experience and specifically on the different studies done on Nicaragua forestry,
designed a project that was planned to demonstrate the commercial value of forest products in
order to change the perception of local communities and stakeholders. Strengthening the capacity
of institutions in the forestry sector was undertaken as an essential component of establishing
sustainable development.

7.1.2 The Bank, in cooperation with the Government, adapted a holistic approach to rural
development and environmental management since the project was one among other interventions
aimed at improving the forestry sector.          It was the recognition that increasing agricultural



                                                   - 21 -

productivity and improving land tenure security were the necessary elements in improving the
performance and vitality of the forestry sector.

7.1.3 The Bank team was creative in making use of existing studies done as part of other
projects (e.g. The Rural Municipalities and Atlantic Biological Corridor projects) that were easily
updated to support the preparation of this project.      In addition, an independent Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan was prepared during the preparation of PROFOR. The team was also
careful in ensuring that the Bank's safeguard guidelines were adhered to fully.

7.1.4 Cognizant of the fact that an absence of consultation had limited the impact of the earlier
intervention, consultations with the private sector, NGOs, public institutions, representatives of
social groups and civil society were extensively undertaken. One of the main outcomes of these
consultations was the recognition of the need for an objective third party that would bring
together the supply and the demand of the forestry sector in Nicaragua. This third party would
help with commercialization, support for transfers of new technologies and help in accessing new
markets for the sector. Thus, the genesis for establishing the SFIPO can be traced to these
consultations processes.

7.1.5 The Bank's lending performance could have been easily rated as highly satisfactory due to
the innovativeness of the project and for challenging the dominant thought of the time. However,
the design of the project was not fully reflected in the Logical Framework and the Bank team
could have developed a better list of impact and output indicators. Thus, the Bank's lending
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 On balance, supervision missions were regular and identified critical problems and
cooperated with the project unit in seeking solution and improving implementation.            The
Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was exhaustive and identified critical problems and
weaknesses facing the project. The Bank mission was also instrumental in ensuring that the team
members of the project were supported; giving stability to project work and contributing to the
successful implementation of the project. Also, the supervision mission provided highly qualified
specialists to   the sector through the International Advisory Panel.       The supervision team
members, especially early in project implementation, had a reasonable measure of continuity.

7.2.2 The Bank team rating was also realistic since; in general, project implementation
progressed smoothly without facing substantial obstacles. Supervision reports (especially Aide
Memoires) showed that team members clearly identified problems early and sought solutions.
The project reports also benefited from good support, guidance and constructive comments from
managers, specifically from the Sector Leader. The Bank mission also ensured that Bank policies
and safeguards were followed per the project design.

7.2.3 However, given that the project included an indigenous development plan and specific
subprojects that catered to the needs of indigenous communities, the mission could have benefited
from the participation of a social scientist/specialist in at least one occasion. An additional
weakness was observed in the lack of follow-up action in institutionalizing SFIPO. The Bank also
should have improved the list of indicators that were first identified during project design . The


                                                - 22 -

strength of the supervision mission was not reflected in its PSRs. The report prepared following
the MTR, for example, did not accurately reflect the MTR findings (or there might not have been
a PSR done at all after the MTR review). As reported in SAP, the MTR was done in February
2001 but there was no PSR that corresponded to this mission. There were also 3 PSRs for the
April 2002 mission showing 2, 4, and 5 mission members.

7.2.4 On balance the Bank supervision mission is rated as marginally satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The weakness observed on part of the Bank is related to reporting and operational issues, such as
improving the M&E system. Considering the excellent project design work undertaken by the
Bank and the overall supervision work, the Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Government initiated important actions before project effectiveness and during the
preparation of the project. Among the initiatives included were: (a) the approval and publishing
of the Law of Modernization of the State (June 3, 1998) in which the responsibilities for policy
formulation for the forestry sector were transferred from the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; (b) approval of the Atlantic Biological
Corridor GEF project which established priorities for biodiversity conservation, which constitutes
the vast majority of Nicaragua's remaining natural forests; and (c) submission to the Assembly of a
law to define the process of land and natural resource titling and demarcation for the indigenous
people of the Atlantic Coast to solve some potential land issues over forests. Thus, the GON was
approaching the forestry sector as an integral part of the overall modernization of the state, rural
development and environmental management.

7.4.2 Given the economic importance of forestry and the strong link between forest, the
environment, and human life (as shown during the devastating landslide caused by Hurricane
Mitch) a sustainable forestry agenda enjoyed widespread support within the Government, the
President included. There was long-standing interest on the part of the Government for Bank
support on sustainable development issues, and several factors indicated Borrower commitment
and ownership: (a) strong support from the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Environment
and the Minister of MAGFOR who signed an agreement to coordinate the implementation of
PROFOR and declared a strive towards developing the institutional arrangements consistent with
their mandates under the new law (see Annex 12 of the PAD); (b) the positive support
demonstrated at five project preparation meetings with relevant Government agencies; (c) the
restructuring of INAFOR as a semi-autonomous entity under MAGFOR responsible for executing
forest policies and programs. The Government also actively participated in the preparation of the
project. However, the Government should have taken a full accounting of existing interventions
during the time before embarking on a new initiative. Based on inventory interventions, the
Government could have planned to better coordinate the different projects in the sector.
Therefore, the Government's contribution during the preparation of the project is rated as
satisfactory.




                                               - 23 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 On balance the Government performance was satisfactory. Although there were frequent
changes in the ministerial position of MAGFOR (5 Ministers in one year according to PSR Seq. #
7), the project did not deviate from its stated objectives and the Government implemented the
project per the established agreement with the Bank. The Government also worked closely with
several stakeholders in the sector and did not divert from its stated policy goals and commitment
to the project objective.

7.5.2 However, due to frequent changes in the ministerial post, MAGFOR was not able to
actively seek the integration of SFIPO into other agencies.         The prevalent attitude within
MAGFOR about the PCU was to view it as an outside entity. The Government could have done
a better job of integrating the PCU into other MAGFOR departments. However, with the recent
assignment of the PROFOR Director as coordinator of the new rural development program,
progress has been made towards integrating the unit.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 The performance of the implementing agency was remarkable. It effectively coordinated
an array of stakeholders in project implementation and formulated consensus towards forest
strategy, law and policy.      It widely disseminated new knowledge and established a forest
information system. It coordinated the selection, monitoring and supervision of subprojects. It
administered the project efficiently and complied with reporting, financial management and
procurement requirements of the Bank. It also coordinated the provision of TA and undertook
several studies necessary for sustainable management of the project. The PCU developed a
manual for subprojects, and according to a study commissioned by the project and conducted by
Center for Research and Education in Tropical Agriculture (Centro Agronómico Tropical de
Investigación y Enseñanza ­ CATIE), PROFOR is a unique project in Central America in
developing and implementing a systematic monitoring system that is easily manageable.15

7.6.2 The project conducted a review of the subprojects and ensured the lessons are reflected in
the National Development Plan and also in the preparation of the new rural development sector
program (PRORURAL). The PCU also partnered with several organizations, both national and
international. Accordingly, the performance of the PCU is rated as highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The overall support provided by the GON during the preparation and implementation of the
project was satisfactory. The Project Unit achieved its main responsibilities and, throughout
project implementation, its activities were focused towards the achievement of the project
Development Objective. Thus, the overall Borrower performance was rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1     In order to understand specific lessons from the execution of the subprojects, and to
address the long term forestry issues in Nicaragua, the PCU commissioned two studies. While
those lessons are specific to the subproject groupings, this section of the ICR will concentrate on
knowledge gained at the macro level, which is believed to have implications for future
intervention in Nicaragua and other countries.




                                               - 24 -

Sectoral

8.2     Innovative projects should not necessarily reflect the prevailing Bank's strategy for the
sector. The project design team understood that such an innovative initiative was risky during the
time. However, the Bank's team's got it right, and it is vindication to the insight of the team that
the new Bank's forestry strategy is in line with this project's approach. Therefore, all projects,
especially innovative projects, do not necessarily need to be in conformity with the Bank's
sectoral strategy.

8.3     Deforestation, inter alia, is the result of assigning low value to forest and forest
products. The project design emanated from the hypothesis that deforestation was driven by the
lack of commercial value attached to the resource by landowners and cultivators, who perceive
forests as impediments to expanding agricultural land and livestock. Through incentives, but also
through enforcement mechanisms, PROFOR proved that it is possible to change prevailing
perceptions and establish the value of forests as a source of livelihood. Once the commercial
value of forests was established, coupled with a supportive and consistent policy framework, the
private sector was able to expand its investment in the sector, local communities became the
guardians of their forest resources, and most importantly, beneficiaries were willing to adapt new
technology. Valuation of forest and forest products presupposes that local communities and
investors benefit economically from the resource. Thus, projects that strive to build sustainable
forests  management      practices   should  contribute   economically     to   the  livelihood   of
forest-dependent people.

8.4     Success in establishing sustainable forestry sector management requires effective and
meaningful participation of stakeholders. In Nicaragua, one of the reasons behind the observed
failures of past interventions was a lack of stakeholder participation. This project ensured the
inclusion and participation of a wide array of stakeholders, which proved to be a necessary
condition for establishing sustainable management. Consensus building around forestry policy and
strategy was a challenge the project dealt with successfully. The corollary of this argument is that
sustainable development of forestry should not be imposed from above.

8.5     Political support and Government commitment to a long-term goal will create
confidence in the system. It is important that the Government provide a clear signal and remain
true to its policy, so that the private sector can invest in forest plantations and development.
Changes in policy following a political/election cycle send the wrong signal and undermine
confidence in the system. The GON remained true to its policy, although there was a change of
administration during the project.

8.6     Sustainable forestry development efforts cannot succeed without a holistic approach
that deals with land security and agricultural productivity.          Historically, deforestation in
Nicaragua was the result of expansion of the agricultural frontier to forestlands. The Government
and the Bank were aware of the importance of improving agricultural productivity in existing
farms to curb the expansion of agricultural lands. Additionally, land right is a necessary condition
for the successful implementation of forestry projects.       Thus, in parallel, the Government
implemented agricultural development and land administration projects that aimed to increase



                                               - 25 -

productivity and improve land tenure security, respectively.

8.7     New technology transfers that are appropriate and divisible are not necessarily
expensive. Even accounting for the learning process that such undertakings require, on balance
the project achievements stack well in terms of the costs of transferring and adapting new
technology. The project introduced new technologies in nursery, agro-forestry and silvopastoral
technologies, among others.        This new technology was easily adapted by the different
beneficiaries of the project with a reasonable cost.

8.8     Assigning forests protective status might be less efficient unless supported by an
incentive mechanism to support sustainable management. Discussion with professionals
involved in the forestry sector of Nicaragua during the preparation of this ICR revealed that there
is an idea (hypothesis) that supporting the development of sustainable forestry in the periphery of
protected areas may better serve such protected areas than merely the creation of laws and
assignment of protected status without any incentive mechanisms.

Operational

8.9     A project that finances subprojects with matching-grants should ensure that resources
are earmarked to disadvantaged or special groups.            In Nicaragua, indigenous groups are
important stakeholders since, for the most part, their livelihood pattern is closely linked with
natural resources. The project ensured that these groups benefited from the project by providing
them TA and training and financing subprojects that catered to their specific needs. Without such
special provision, it would have been difficult for the indigenous groups to compete and win
matching grants independently, given their limited capacity in the formulation of subproject
proposals.

8.10    Success of a project that plans to provide a matching-grant for innovative subprojects
does not necessarily depend on developing a full list of impact indicators a priori. It is difficult
to identify a list of subprojects that beneficiaries are willing to co-finance. However, once the
type of subprojects selected are known, the M&E system should be able to reflect the new reality
by identifying new list of indicators.      PROFOR managed to do exactly this, although the
indicators were not formally revised. Thus, the PAD should include dynamic elements that
specifically require the updating of indicators during project implementation

8.11    In designing disbursement estimates for a project that plans to co-finance innovative
subprojects, initial delays should be recognized. It should be anticipated that at least one year
might be needed in defining subprojects and receiving and reviewing proposals, not to mention the
time needed to acquaint project unit staff with Bank procedures. However, disbursement will
accelerate once the implementation of subprojects gets off the ground, as was demonstrated with
this project.




                                                - 26 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:



                                     - 27 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

List of Footnotes:

1. FAO. 1999. State of the World Forests.
http://www.fao.org/documents/show_cdr.asp?url_file=/docrep/W9950E/W9950E00.htm.

2. For detail see Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 18653-NI.

3. The silvopastoral technique includes replanting degraded lands with vegetation such as trees, legumes, and
fast-growing shrubs that are environmentally sound and financially productive so that the resulting system broadly
mimics a forest ecosystem. The World Bank. 2004. Agricultural Investment Source Book.
http://www-esd.worldbank.org/ais/index.cfm?Page=about.

4. Proceeding of a seminar conducted in Rivas, Nicaragua, Sept. 1-2, 2003.. PROFOR. Encuentro Nacional
Silvopastoril la Forestaría para la reconversión de la ganadería ­ Sistemas silvopastoriles en Rivas. .

5. http://www.fao.org/documents/show_cdr.asp?url_file=/DOCREP/004/Y1997E/y1997e0f.htm.

6. The award is named New Millennium Award and was received in 2000 in Paris, France.

7. See, for example, the proceeding given under footnote 2 above.

8. UN. Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development. 2002. Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-
4 September 2002. Plan of Implementation. Paragraph 45.
http://ods-dds-ny.un.org/doc/UNDOC/GEN/N02/636/93/PDF/N0263693.pdf?OpenElement

9. It is estimated that beneficiaries have invested more given some of the activities are difficult to account for, such
as planting trees around dwellings.

10. Melvin Guevara. 2004. Estudio de tendencias y perspectivas del sector forestal en América Latina al año
2020: Informe Nacional ­ Nicaragua. FAO. 2004.

11. Nicaragua: Agricultural Technology and Rural Education project. Credit No. 33710.

12. Nicaragua: Land Administration project. Credit No. 36650.

13. See the 1991 Forestry Strategy and the 1993 Operational Policy.

14. The World Bank. 2004. Sustaining Forests ­ A Development Strategy. This new strategy paper has the
following to say on the result of the Bank's earlier strategy. " The OED review concluded that the Bank had been
`irrelevant' in slowing deforestation despite its commitment to this objective in its 1991 Forest Strategy." p.2.

15. Tania Ammour. 2004. Innovaciones y Aprendizajes: Experiencias del Programa Forestal de Nicaragua
(PROFOR). Centro Agronómico Tropical de Investigación y Enseñanza.




                                                         - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) SFIPO is fully functional (i.e. provides     SFIPO was created and accomplished several
demand-driven services to                        tasks: provided demand-driven services to
non-governmental forestry stakeholders,          non-governmental forestry stakeholders;
improving the business environment and           supported the capacity building of this
capacity for private sector and communal         organizations; monitored and supervised the
sector sustainable forestry investment);         implementation of co-financed subprojects,
                                                 supported private sector and communal sector in
                                                 business development plan for sustainable forestry
                                                 investment
(ii) Policies and strategies for forestry sector Policies and strategies were developed, widely
developed and agreed with principal              discussed consensus established and made fully
stakeholders;                                    operational
(iii) program of pilot subprojects executed, (1) 49 subprojects were executed
results evaluated and integrated into long      (2) 25 subprojects evaluated
term forestry planning.                         (3) initial findings were incorporated to the
                                                National Development Plan
                                                (4) second-round evaluation conducted and
                                                evaluation will be included in the new rural
                                                development program (PRORURAL) under
                                                preparation




Additional Outcome/Impact indicators
                           Unit of      Planned             Actual            Actual/      OBSERVATIONS
       IMPACT           measurement       (EOP)                             Planned (%)
     INDICATORS
   Diversification of  Number of          2500               3500              140      3500 farms with
      production       farms with                                                       introduction of 3
                       productive                                                       silvo-pastoral models
                       forestry and                                                     and 4 agroforestry
                       agroforestry                                                     models
                       systems
                                                     The project had an
   Reduction of Soil                              impact on the reduction
        Erosion                                    of soil erosion through:
                                                        1. Procasitas/
                                                       Environmental
                                                    Vulnerability Project
                                                     2. Reforested Area
                                                       3. Agroforestry
                                                         Subprojects
                                                  4. Training of Producers




                                                  - 29 -

Additional Outcome/Impact indicators
                          Unit of      Planned          Actual            Actual/     OBSERVATIONS
      IMPACT           measurement      (EOP)                           Planned (%)
    INDICATORS
                           Farms                 Improvements were                 1. Rehabilitation of 355
Improvement of           integrated                 made in water                    farms in the basin of
Quality, Availability                           management on 450                    the Casitas Volcano,
and Efficiency in                               farms to improve the                  30 farms in Jicaral,
Water Use                                      quality, availability and             and 52 farms in Las
                                                efficient use of water                    Segovias.
                      Water collection   25               52               208        52 water collection
                           basins                                                        ditches were
                                                                                      established in Las
                                                                                           Segovias
                       Drip irrigation   12               30               250         30 drip irrigation
                          systems                                                       systems were
                                                                                   established, integrated
                                                                                     with pumps & water
                                                                                        storage tanks
                      Ha of             1500             1886              126
Reduction of          secondary
Deforestation         forest under
                      management
                      Ha of forestry    8000             9798              122
                      and
                      agroforestry
                      plantations
                      Forestry policy     1                1               100
                      and legislation
                      documents
                      Consumption of                       2                       The consumption of
Reduction of          concentrated                                                 concentrated feed per
Production Costs in   feed                                                         cow per day was
Silvo-Pastoral        (kg/day/cow)                                                 reduced from 4.2
Models                                                                             kg/cow/day before the
                                                                                   project, to 2.2
                                                                                   kg/cow/day after the
                                                                                   project mainly through
                                                                                   the use of forage,
                                                                                   protein banks
                      Milk production                  US$0.12                     Milk production costs
                        costs (US$)                                                were reduced by 44%
                                                                                   from US$0.27/kg
                                                                                   before the project to
                                                                                   US$0.15/kg after the
                                                                                   project
                         Savings in                   US$11,473                    Total savings per farm
                       nutritional diet                                            in nutritional diet were
                          of cattle                                                approximately 50%,
                       (US$/Farm/yr                                                from US$24,225.9
                                                                                   before the project to
                                                                                   US$12,752.5 after the
                                                                                   project




                                              - 30 -

         Output Indicators:

OUTPUT INDICATORS              Unit of     Planned         Actual            Actual/       OBSERVATIONS
                           measurement      (EOP)                            Planned
                                                                               (%)
    COMPONENT: 1
  Forestry Investment      Organizations     25               70               280   Reports on OPIFS activities.
    Promotion Office          assisted                                               List of organizations assisted
functioning since the first                                                           and related to PROFOR is
 year of the project and                                                                        attached
         providing          TA sessions      252             624               248   An average of 13 monthly TA
   non-governmental                                                                       sessions carried out
    demand services          Field visits    126             144               114     An average of 3 technical
                                                                                       assistance visits made to
                                                                                         farms, subprojects or
                                                                                              organizations
 International Advisory     TA missions       5                9               180
Council providing advice Fairs attended       3                6               200
and technical assistance      Vertical        2                9               450
    to the sector and        Integration
   supporting forestry        Projects
      development
  Specific investments          US$                 US$30 million directly             Source: FAO, UE. 2003
attracted, contributing to                        invested in forestry sector
sustainable management                             US$20 million in private
  and growth of forest                                 and community
areas under management                                   investment
 Definition of Identified    Investment       1                1               100  A forestry investment proposal,
  Investment Priorities       Proposal                                                 prioritized by the private
                                                                                         sector, was prepared
Promotion of Nicaraguan     International     3                6               200
  Forestry Products on          fairs
  international market      Participating    12               34               283
                            businessmen
    Voluntary forestry      Proposal of       1                1               100   National Forestry Certification
 certification introduced     standards                                             Standards prepared, validated
       and certified                                                                 in the field, and submitted to
                                                                                            FSC for approval
                           Working group      1                1               100     CONICEFV (Nicaraguan
                                                                                     Council on Voluntary Forestry
                                                                                     Certification) established as a
                                                                                     working group recognized by
                                                                                                   FSC
                           Units certified    3                8               267   3 forestry management units
                                                                                      certified, 2 custody chains
                                                                                     certified, and 3 pilot units in
                                                                                       process of being certified
                            Businessmen       3                6               200     6 businessmen trained in
                               trained                                                    forestry certification




                                                     - 31 -

 OUTPUT INDICATORS            Unit of      Planned            Actual           Actual/       OBSERVATIONS
                         measurement       (EOP)                               Planned
                                                                                 (%)
       Knowledge            Web page          1                  2               200      www.profor.gob.ni and
 Dissemination through     created and                                                       www.opifs.com.ni
  Forestry Information       operating
 System, publication of
technical documents, and
         training          Visits to web   15,000             20,566             137
                               page
                        Users integrated     750               1265              169   User network used the 2-way
                            in network                                                 network to disseminate and
                                                                                             obtain information
                            Technical         12                 8               67      Technical documents on
                            documents                                                    principal achievements in
                                                                                         terms of innovation and
                                                                                        introduction of technology
                                                                                           have been edited and
                                                                                       published. These documents
                                                                                       are in addition to the products
                                                                                         of specific consultancies
                         Training events      60                97               162
    Improvement of       Business plans       4                  6               150
competitiveness of wood    in execution
  furniture companies        Furniture        2                  3               150
                         finishing shops
                            introduced
                         National lumber      2                  3               150
                         fairs carried out
   COMPONENT: 2
 Policies and strategies   Documents          1         Nicaraguan Govt.         100
   for forestry sector                                Forestry Policy 2002
 developed and agreed                                 Forestry Development
  with the sector's key                                      Strategy
          actors                                      Forestry Development
                                                      Law #462 year 2003
                                                      Regulation of Forestry
                                                         Law, year 2004
                                                     Forestry regulations and
                                                      procedures, year 2004
 Environmental Forestry                   Developme    Studies of national
        Services                             nt of   potential and formulation
                                          market-orie of 3 private projects in
                                             nted         the process of
                                           Carbon    negotiations for financing
                                           Capture
                                           Strategy




                                                       - 32 -

OUTPUT INDICATORS          Unit of       Planned             Actual            Actual/      OBSERVATIONS
                        measurement       (EOP)                                Planned
                                                                                 (%)
 Forestry Concessions                   Developme      The following were
                                          nt of a          carried out:
                                         forestry      1. The regulation of
                                        concession   Forestry Concessions
                                        manageme        2. A Concession
                                        nt strategy    Monitoring Manual
                                          for the   3. A study of the viability
                                           State       of co-investments
                                         Forestry (Businessmen/Communiti
                                        Administrati           es)
                                            on
                                        (ADFORES
                                            T)
     Preparation of      Forestry Map        1                  1                100   Forest Map was prepared and
Nicaragua's Forestry Map                                                                    published in 2000
     and volumetric     Forest valuation     1                  1                100  The forest valuation document
     quantification       document                                                        was published in 2001




                                                      - 33 -

Component 3 Selected indicators

Activity                            Unit of        Planned             Actual/plann
                                  measurement       (EOP)     Actual     ed (%)
Study on the potential of carbon
sequestration                      # of study         1         1          100

Design pilot projects for carbon
marketing                         # of projects       3         3          100

Forest districts established      # of districts      2         10         500
Establishment of control posts     # of posts        12         6          50
Elaboration of forest map of
Nicaragua                              #              1         1          100

Plants produced                      Plants         6,065,760 6,973,511    115
Plants produced                      Plants         2,743,097 2,841,744    104
Nursery technologies validated         #                    3         3    100
Total Reforestation Area                                6,329     9,799    155
Areas of pure plantations
established                         Hectares            2,469     3,144    127

Area of pine plantations
established                         Hectares              530       484    91

Area of crops in furrows
established                         Hectares               36        20    56

Area of fruit plantations
established                         Hectares              267       594    223


Area of Taunya plantations
established                         Hectares              917     1,944    212



Area under mixed Timber-
yielding cacao farms established    Hectares              150       302    201


Area under mixed Timber-
yielding coffee farms established   Hectares              735       972    132

Silvopastoral area established      Hectares               80       358    447

Area of protein banks established   Hectares              140       312    223
Area under soil conservation
established                         Hectares              878     1,150    131

Total Area of Forest
Management                                             16,027    38,210    238

Area under pine forest
management                          Hectares           10,295    14,895    145

Area under latifoliate forest
management                          Hectares            5,167    19,664    381

Area of secondary MB                Hectares              385     2,788    724
EOP -- End of Project




                                            - 34 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                     Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                     Estimate        Estimate     Appraisal
                 Component                         US$ million     US$ million           94.81
TA to Private & Communal Sector Forestry                   2.7              2.56        160.77
Assistance to Forestry Sector Institutional                1.3
Reform                                                                      2.09         77.30
Pilot Subproject                                          10.0              7.73        113.00
Project Administration                                     1.0              1.13         90.07


       Total Financing Required                           15.0         13.51          90.1



 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
 equivalent)
                                                       Procurement Method1
   Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB        Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00          0.00        0.111         0.00       0.111
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.100)       (0.00)      (0.100)
2. Goods                             0.00         0.223        0.234         0.00       0.457
                                    (0.00)        (0.150)     (0.200)       (0.00)      (0.350)
3. TA (Consultants,                  0.00          0.00        3.477         0.00       3.477
training and studies)               (0.00)        (0.00)      (3.200)       (0.00)      (3.200)

4. Subprojects                       0.00                      10.00         0.00       10.000
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)      (5.000)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00                      1.200         0.00       1.200
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.350)       (0.00)      (0.350
   Total                             0.00         0.223        15.022        0.00       15.245
                                    (0.00)        (0.150)     (8.850)       (0.00)      (9.00)




                                            - 35 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
  equivalent)3
                                                 Procurement method Actual/Latest estimate
          Expenditure categories
                                            ICB        NCB     Method1
                                                                   Other2        NBF         Total

  Goods                                        -          0.17             0.31                   4.80
  Works                                        -                           0.23                   2.23
  Consultant Services and training             -                           4.15                   4.15
  Sub Projects (Grants.)                       -                           3.85                   3.85

  Operating Cost                               -                           1.13                   1.12
                                               -
  Total                                        -          0.17             9.46                   9.63
      1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
         contingencies.
      2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
         services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
         assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project,
         and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
       3 Includes only Bank credit procurement methods implemented.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of
      Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate         Appraisal
                         Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.   Bank      Govt.  CoF
                                                                                                      .
TA to Private &           2.2       0.26       .24       2.30      0.26            97.39     102.88
Communal Sector
Forestry
Assistance to Forestry    1.1       0.19       .01       1.81      0.28            119.56    143.64
Sector Institutional
Reform
Pilot Subproject          5.0        .05       4.50      3.72      0.13     3.88   94.54     256.77 86.2
Project Administration    0.7       0.50       0.25      0.68      0.45            93.83     90.18

Total                      9          1         5        8.51      1.12            99.70     112.17




                                               - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/26/1997                2    LEAD OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/10/1997                2    NRM SPECIALIST (1) FAO/CP
                                             (1)
              02/12/1998                2    ECONOMIST (1); NRM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/23/1998                2    ECONOMIST (1) FORESTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/05/1998                4    NRM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIT (1)
              07/02/1998                1    FINANCIAL MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/10/1998                1    FAO/CP (1)
              11/25/1998                4    ECONOMIST(1); NRM
                                             SPECIALIST (1); COUNSEL
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision

              05/10/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJ.           S               S
                                             ASSIST (1)
              10/23/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); CAI        S               S
                                             MEMBER (3); NRM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/01/2000                2    NAT. RES. MGMT. SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             CIPAV COLOMBIA (1)
              03/06/2000                9    ECONOMIST (1); NATURAL           HS             HS
                                             RES. MGMT. SPE (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CAI MEMBER (2); NRM
                                             SPECIALIST (1); CAI
                                             MEMEBER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                                             (1)
              09/04/2001                1    CAI MEMBER, FORESTRY (1)         HS             HS
              04/15/2002                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             FORESTRY (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCES (1); FINANCE (1)
              04/15/2002                2    SR. ECONOMIST (1);               HS             HS
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1)
              04/15/2002                5    SR. ECONOMIST (1); SR.           S               S



                                              - 38 -

                                                 BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);
                                                 FORESTRY SPEC. (1); NATL
                                                 RES MGMT SPEC (1);
                                                 FORESTRY SPEC. YP (1)
               07/21/2002                    1   FOREST SPECIALIST (1)               S          S
               06/10/2004                    2   TM/ FORESTRY SPECIALIS              S          S
                                                 (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                 (1)


 ICR
               10/21/2004                   1     Operations Officer (1)             S          S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  40.5                          152.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       4.5*                          30.9*
  Supervision                                 90.5                          286.1
  ICR                                         20**                            43.2
  Total                                      155.5                          512.7
* Difficult to get the true cost of appraisal & negotiations since the pre-appraisal was deemed
sufficient to serve as an appraisal.
*Estimates per the work plan.




                                                  - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

In addition Missions Aide Memoires and Project Supervision Reports and several documents and
studies within PROFOR, the following specific documents were used

1. FAO. 1999. State of the World Forests.
http://www.fao.org/documents/show_cdr.asp?url_file=/docrep/W9950E/W9950E00.htm.

2. FAO website specifically
http://www.fao.org/documents/show_cdr.asp?url_file=/DOCREP/004/Y1997E/y1997e0f.htm.

3. Melvin Guevara. 2004. Estudio de tendencias y perspectivas del sector forestal en América
Latina al año 2020: Informe Nacional ­ Nicaragua. FAO. 2004.

4. Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 18653-NI.

5. PROFOR. Encuentro Nacional Silvopastoril la Forestaría para la reconversión de la ganadería ­
Sistemas silvopastoriles en Rivas. .

6. Tania Ammour. 2004. Innovaciones y Aprendizajes: Experiencias del Programa Forestal de
Nicaragua (PROFOR). Centro Agronómico Tropical de Investigación y Enseñanza.

7. The World Bank. 1991 Forestry Strategy.

8. The World Bank. 2004. Sustaining Forests ­ A Development Strategy.

9. UN. Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development. 2002. Johannesburg, South
Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002. Plan of Implementation. Paragraph 45.

10. http://ods-dds-ny.un.org/doc/UNDOC/GEN/N02/636/93/PDF/N0263693.pdf?OpenElement




                                            - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

                                        INFORME DE CIERRE
       PROYECTO DE PROMOCION INVERSION EN FORESTERIA SOSTENIBLE DE
                                  NICARAGUA (PROFOR), Cr. 3161-NI

RESUMEN EJECUTIVO

                                           INTRODUCCIÓN

En el año de 1997 el Gobierno de Nicaragua, solicitó al Banco Mundial apoyo técnico y financiero para el
desarrollo forestal. Como resultado de esta solicitud se formuló el "Proyecto de Promoción a la Inversión
en Forestería Sostenible", mejor conocido como PROFOR, el cual entró en efectividad el 25 de mayo de
1999 y culminó el 30 de junio del año 2004. El PROFOR surgió como una respuesta a la demanda del
Estado y el sector privado y comunitario que buscaban alternativas de desarrollo económico sostenible en
el aprovechamiento del potencial que los bosques nicaragüenses y tierras aptas para la reforestación
comercial poseen. El Gobierno, con el apoyo del Banco Mundial y otras agencias de desarrollo, ya estaba
desarrollando, una estrategia de conservación de áreas protegidas y descentralización, con los proyectos
Corredor Biológico el Atlántico (CBA) y PROTIERRA, para el desarrollo de municipios rurales,
considerándose que hacía falta una iniciativa económica forestal, centrada en el sector privado y
comunitario.

En el sector forestal interactuaban, estableciendo relaciones de mercado, no siempre en el marco de la
legalidad, una multiplicidad de actores: madereros tradicionales, empresas forestales, indígenas,
campesinos pioneros de los frentes de colonización de zonas de frontera agrícola, inmigrantes
desempleados, ex- militares del Ejército de Nicaragua y la Resistencia Nicaragüense, que habían visto en el
bosque un manera rápida de obtener ingresos, en regiones donde la pobreza crítica y el desempleo han sido
un flagelo secular. Situación particularmente grave en la Costa Atlántica del país (RAAN y RAAS) El
Departamento del Río San Juan y el Departamento de Nueva Segovia.

Sin embargo a pesar del potencial forestal, históricamente este sector constituía la cenicienta de la
economía nacional con un poco más del 1% del PIB y apenas con el 4% de las exportaciones. El sector
forestal en Nicaragua había estado localizado durante casi 20 años en el sector institucional ambiental y no
era considerado un rubro productivo importante por el ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería (MAG). Por
otra parte a pesar de importantes experiencias en materia de Desarrollo Forestal en Nicaragua, impulsadas
primero por el Instituto de Recursos Naturales y el Ambiente (IRENA) y después por el Ministerio del
Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales (MARENA), con el apoyo de varias agencias internacionales, en
particular la Agencia Sueca para el Desarrollo Internacional (ASDI), dichas experiencias no fueron
asimiladas en su verdadera intensidad por el emergente sector privado, dado el entorno institucional forestal
predominantemente estatal y conservacionista, separado de la política agropecuaria y de los actores
privados.

Entre otros Importantes logros y experiencias, en materia forestal, se debe mencionar la creación del
Servicio Forestal Nacional, (que data de la década de los ochenta), la formulación y ejecución parcial del
Plan de Acción Forestal (PAF-NIC) en el marco de la Estrategia de Conservación, Ordenamiento
Territorial y Plan de Acción Forestal (ECOT-PAF) preparado en el Gobierno Chamorro Barrios
(1990-96), el Programa Forestal Campesino del IRENA, las dos fases del Programa Socio ambiental y
Forestal MARENA-BID, el Proyecto Fondo Silva MARENA-ASDI etc. y el Proyecto Agroforestal Los
Maribios FAO-HOLANDA. Estas iniciativas constituyeron valiosos antecedentes del PROFOR, que



                                                   - 43 -

fueron tomadas en cuenta en su formulación e implementación.

1.       EL ENTORNO DEL PROYECTO.

A finales de 1990 el Ministerio de Agricultura de la época estaba consciente del entorno difícil que
enfrentaba el desarrollo forestal privado, por la falta de una cultura forestal sostenible, institucionalizada e
interiorizada en el Estado, en el ministerio en particular, y en la sociedad nicaragüense en su conjunto.
Cuando se inició el Proyecto, no existía una política de fomento forestal sostenible, el marco jurídico era
frágil, obsoleto e incompleto y el marco institucional muy débil y pobre, con casi ninguna presencia en las
regiones de mayor actividad y potencial forestal. Las instituciones del sector público forestal (MARENA y
luego INAFOR) tenían un enfoque excesivamente estatista y conservacionista en la teoría, estaban
orientadas bajo el principio de comando y control, obstaculizando con una gran cantidad de trámites
burocráticos e interminables requisitos, la poca actividad forestal legal, estimulando en los hechos la
ilegalidad y la informalidad en el sector forestal, sin tener la capacidad real del control en el territorio. Esta
situación había creado una situación muy vulnerable y propicia para el fomento de prácticas muy
discrecionales en su actuar, que facilitaban la existencia de una amplia red de corrupción administrativa
incontrolable, en la que históricamente han participado toda suerte de autoridades a lo largo de la cadena
forestal de producción y comercialización, con graves pérdidas fiscales y del recurso forestal. Estimaciones
del Banco Mundial del 2002-2004 estimaban las pérdidas de Nicaragua, por ilegalidad forestal entre 30 y
50 millones de dólares anualmente. Nicaragua se había convertido en una fuente barata de recursos
forestales tropicales nativos, para los países vecinos del norte y del sur, así como de varios países del
caribe cuyos recursos forestales casi habían desaparecido.

Para el período en que se inició el PROFOR, se carecía de modelos validados de desarrollo forestal
sostenible, que sirvieran de referencia a los productores y otros actores importantes del sector forestal. Las
políticas agrícolas y ganaderas tenía un fuerte sesgo anti-forestal, promoviendo la especialización y el
monocultivo tradicional agrícola y ganadero extensivo, o en el mejor de los casos ignorando el componente
arbóreo en los sistemas productivos agropecuarios, no existía ni un solo programa de fomento a las
inversiones forestales comerciales, con enfoque al sector privado y no había existido innovación tecnológica
en plantaciones forestales y de manejo forestal, desde muchas décadas atrás. Las plantaciones forestales
existentes estaban orientadas con propósitos ambientales o para la producción de leña y otros energéticos.
La integración entre la actividad primaria forestal, la industria y la segunda transformación era
prácticamente inexistente. La certificación forestal internacional, los incentivos forestales y el pago de
servicios ambientales del bosque, solamente eran un concepto general sin ninguna posibilidad de aplicación.


Existía un gran desconocimiento del mercado internacional forestal y de los cambios tecnológicos en la
manera de hacer negocios en el mundo globalizado. Nicaragua había estado ausente de las ferias forestales
internacionales. La mayoría de las exportaciones de los productos forestales eran de madera aserrada, sin
mayor valor agregado, y de la misma manera para el mercado interno. Esta situación se agravaba por la
existencia de regulaciones y prohibiciones excesivas a las exportaciones y al comercio interno, que llegaron
al extremo de establecer una mora o veda indefinida al corte y comercialización de la caoba y el cedro real,
las dos especies de mayor valor comercial. En los años de veda forestal se incrementaron el corte y las
exportaciones ilegales de estas especies. El concepto de inversión forestal sostenible era un nuevo
paradigma internacional, aun poco conocido y experimentado en la realidad mundial, mucho menos a nivel
nacional.

2.       OBJETIVOS
2.1.     El objetivo de largo plazo del proyecto es mejorar el manejo forestal y el desarrollo del sector


                                                      - 44 -

privado.

Con la ejecución del proyecto se inició un proceso de inversiones forestales y agroforestales orientado
claramente a mejorar el manejo de los recursos forestales. El mejoramiento del marco institucional y legal
para el desarrollo forestal a partir de las reformas impulsadas por el PROFOR, que incluyeron el
fortalecimiento institucional del MAGFOR, el INAFOR, MIFIC y otras agencias públicas, se fundamenta
en la promulgación de una política y ley forestal lograda con el consenso de los principales actores
públicos y privados del sector. Estas reformas institucionales están permitiendo atraer nuevas inversiones
en el campo forestal y tienden a remover obstáculos y armonizar los intereses del desarrollo forestal
privado con el marco de políticas nacionales, fiscales, agrícolas, tecnológicas, etc. Por los resultados
alcanzados por el PROFOR en materia de políticas, leyes, reglamentos, estrategias, intercambio de
experiencias a nivel nacional, regional e internacional, validación de modelos productivos de desarrollo
forestal sostenible, apertura de nuevos mercados e introducción de nuevas tecnologías, es posible afirmar
con propiedad que el proyecto se orientó adecuadamente a la consecución del objetivo de largo plazo.

A manera de ilustrar la orientación del proyecto para alcanzar este objetivo, se debe mencionar la
importancia de haber incluido a una muestra representativa de comunidades indígenas con alto potencial
para el desarrollo forestal, a las actividades de manejo, aprovechamiento, transformación y
comercialización de productos maderables y no maderables del bosque, con una magnitud que representa
un impacto socioeconómico y ambiental positivo considerable, que incluyó más de treinta mil hectáreas
bajo manejo forestal con orientación hacia la certificación internacional.

La incorporación de un importante número de productores ganaderos organizados en asociaciones
regionales y nacionales, a iniciativas de desarrollo silvopastoril que han revolucionado el manejo de fincas
ganaderas, con la inclusión del elemento arbóreo a la cadena productiva, mejorando la alimentación, las
condiciones ambientales y la economía empresarial a nivel de fincas.        Estas experiencias han penetrado
tanto en el sector ganadero que las fincas demostrativas se están multiplicando espontáneamente a través de
un proceso horizontal de transferencia técnica entre los ganaderos.

Otro aspecto relevante lo constituyó la introducción de tecnologías avanzadas de producción de plantas de
alta calidad para mejorar las plantaciones forestales. A partir de la ejecución del PROFOR Nicaragua
queda preparada con una experiencia validada y documentada para desarrollar programas de plantaciones
a gran escala utilizando tecnologías modernas.

La ocurrencia del huracán Mitch y la destrucción masiva ocasionada a nivel nacional y particularmente
alrededor del volcán Casitas, que ocasionó la muerte de más de tres mil personas, sirvió de ocasión para
que el PROFOR con el apoyo de FAO, pusiera en práctica un programa de restauración ambiental y social
en las microcuencas más afectadas y desarrollara toda una metodología práctica de manejo de emergencias
con propuestas forestales y agroforestales replicables en situaciones similares. Esta experiencia ha
generado lecciones aprendidas para reducir la vulnerabilidad ante los desastres naturales, de manera
participativa con la población afectada y las diferentes agencias involucradas. Como caso concreto de
aplicación de estas experiencias, el PROFOR contribuyó notablemente a la preparación de una estrategia
regional de restauración social y ambiental en los once municipios de la zona seca de León y Chinandega,
con enfoque agroforestal.

2.2.     Objetivo de desarrollo del proyecto: mejorar la capacidad local privada y pública y
desarrollar alternativas para orientar a largo plazo el desarrollo forestal en Nicaragua

Dadas las condiciones de Nicaragua se considera que dicho objetivo fue claro, importante para el país y


                                                    - 45 -

realista. Durante las evaluaciones realizadas a lo largo del proyecto se mantuvo dicho objetivo, así como
los componentes del proyecto, como parte de la estrategia para alcanzar dichos objetivos. Este objetivo se
cumplió a cabalidad ya que, como consecuencia del desarrollo del proyecto, resulta evidente que las
capacidades locales, tanto públicas como privadas, han mejorado en muchos sentidos, tanto en la
formulación y ejecución de iniciativas de desarrollo forestal sostenible, como en la capacidad de
negociación y resolución de conflictos y desarrollo de un dialogo constructivo entre el sector privado
comunitario y el Estado.

Por otra parte, el PROFOR coejecutó con un gran número de organizaciones privadas y comunitarias y con
productores individuales organizados, 49 Subproyectos forestales y agroforestales que cubren todo el
espectro social y ecológico del país y que hoy constituyen verdaderos modelos de referencia o vitrinas con
capacidad de ser replicadas a mayor escala.       Estos Subproyectos de co-inversión constituyen junto con
otras experiencias organizacionales, de asistencia técnica y empresarial, verdaderas alternativas para el
desarrollo forestal de Nicaragua. Además, en el marco del PROFOR, se formuló y aprobó la nueva política
y ley forestal y se definió una estrategia, que orientan a largo plazo el desarrollo forestal en Nicaragua.

3.       Descripción de los Componentes y sus Principales Impactos

Los componentes del proyecto fueron cuatro, tres de carácter sustantivo o técnico y uno de apoyo. Estos
componentes permanecieron durante toda la vida del Proyecto, lo que constituyó una fortaleza para el logro
de los objetivos del mismo. El grado de ejecución de los componentes del proyecto y su impacto en los
objetivos del mismo, demostraron que su identificación fue razonable y que existió la capacidad para
ejecutarlos por parte de las agencias de implementación del proyecto, incluyendo la capacidad gerencial,
administrativa y financiera.

Cada componente estuvo orientado a apoyar la ejecución de acciones y desarrollar procesos para fomentar
el desarrollo del sector forestal de Nicaragua. Los componentes fueron:

La Doctora Tannia Amour en su estudio sobre Innovaciones y Aprendizajes: Experiencias del Programa
Forestal de Nicaragua (PROFOR) Septiembre 2004, identifica que el PROFOR, acorde con la propuesta
inicial del proyecto, ha trabajado a diferentes niveles: nacional (marco legal e institucional, sectorial
(forestal)   e Inter.-sectorial (interfase con la agricultura), ambos en la cadena de producción-
transformación- comercialización, local en diferentes regiones del país a través de sub proyectos,
organizaciones de productores y productores individuales. Adicionalmente, PROFOR incorporó
universidades y otras instituciones de educación.

Sus líneas de acción se concentraron en: apoyar reformas legales e institucionales en el ámbito
gubernamental, fortalecer las capacidades empresariales del sector forestal privado/no gubernamental con
asistencia técnica, financiera, capacitación y visitas a eventos y centros especializados, financiar
Inversiones para los procesos de aprendizaje e innovación en forestaría sostenible en reforestación de uso
múltiple, en plantaciones mixtas y puras con diferentes tecnologías de viveros, control y prevención de
incendios, planes de manejo, Sistemas agroforestales y silvopastoriles, manejo sostenible de bosques
naturales y secundarios en pinares y latifoliados, desarrollo de productos forestales con procesamiento y
comercialización, Estudios de investigación (producción, mercadeo) asociados a los temas anteriores.
Atención a emergencias, desastres naturales y obras de conservación

La Dra Amour reafirma en su estudio que desde el inicio, PROFOR fue considerado como proyecto de
piloto y de aprendizaje:




                                                     - 46 -

i)       piloto porque fue concebido como un "ensayo" para su potencial replicación a mayor escala; y
ii)      de aprendizaje para probar metodologías y formas de incentivar y aplicar el manejo forestal
considerando las diferentes dimensiones económica, técnica/productiva, social/organizativa,
institucional/ de políticas.

Un elemento central que motivó el diseño y financiamiento del PROFOR fue el reconocimiento que
"numerosas reformas propuestas (de proyectos de reforestación y forestales en general) en el pasado
(...) no han sido ni adoptadas ni efectivamente implementadas debido a la falta de un cuidadoso análisis
participativo o procesos que lleven al establecimiento de los marcos apropiados para los incentivos". Se
reconoce entonces la necesidad de "primero pasar por un proceso de aprendizaje adaptativo antes de
efectuar inversiones mayores".

                   Es importante señalar que en todos los componentes y acciones relevantes, los actores
públicos y privados participaron de manera efectiva en el diseño e implementación de los mismos, lo que
constituyó una gran fortaleza en la apropiación del proceso y los resultados y permitió mantener los
objetivos originales a pesar de los cambios institucionales acaecidos durante la vida del proyecto. Por otra
parte desde el inicio el PROFOR se planteó con claridad su carácter de transición, a la formulación y
ejecución de un Programa Nacional Forestal de mediano y largo plazo (PROFORESTAL).

3.1.     Componente A: Asistencia Técnica al Sector Privado y Comunitario:

El objetivo específico de este componente de Asistencia Técnica al Sector Privado y Comunitario, fue
establecer capacidad y mecanismos para movilizar fondos y promover el espíritu empresarial para hacer
realidad las oportunidades de un manejo forestal más efectivo y mejorado. Para este fin PROFOR creó una
Oficina de Promoción de Promoción de Inversiones, asistida por un Consejo de Asesores Internacionales
(CAI) de reconocido prestigio, que logró interiorizarse dentro del sector público, privado y comunitario y
desarrollar un nuevo enfoque de competencia y planes de negocio orientado hacia el mercado y potenciales
emprendedores.

OPIFS en conjunto con el CAI y la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP), trabajó para poner en
contacto al sector privado empresarial forestal nicaragüense con el mercado internacional e inversionistas
extranjeros. Los mecanismos fueron: la participación de Nicaragua en las seis ferias forestales
internacionales más importantes en Europa, EEUU y Centroamérica, giras a cinco países (Canadá, Costa
Rica, Bolivia y Honduras) de 30 personas en intercambio de experiencias y visitas de 11 empresarios
extranjeros en busca de establecer relaciones de negocios y co-inversión (joint venture).

Los empresarios reconocieron la necesidad de mejorar la capacidad competitiva del sector forestal, a través
de la introducción de nuevas tecnologías, generar productos de mayor valor agregado, introducir la
certificación forestal y organizarse para buscar sinergias, economías de escala y responder a las demandas
de productos forestales. Estas actividades de modernización, competitividad y alianzas estratégicas
generaron inversiones en las empresas participantes por encima de los US$ 2 millones de dólares y el
incremento significativo de sus exportaciones.

OPIFS desarrolló instrumentos de apoyo al servicio del sector privado y comunitario, tales como: (i) el
Sistema de Información Forestal (localizado en sitio web, con más de 21 mil visitas) que permitió mantener
contacto con inversionistas y compradores; y (ii) asistencia técnica nacional e internacional para apoyar los
procesos y acciones, a fin de mejorar la capacidad de producción y exportación de productos forestales. Sin
embargo a pesar de estos logros y beneficios tangibles, el sector privado al finalizar el proyecto no asumió
los costos de funcionamiento de la OPIFS, como inicialmente se había planteado, manteniendo el principio


                                                    - 47 -

que el fomento forestal es responsabilidad del Estado y que el rol del sector privado es la producción de
bienes y servicios para el mercado. Igual suerte han sufrido en Nicaragua otras instancias de promoción y
fomento a la inversión y a las exportaciones.

Uno de los factores claves de éxito, fue la promoción de alianzas estratégicas con 48 instituciones
científicas, técnicas y empresariales y participación multi sectorial directa con PROFOR, lo que permitió
establecer una red de relaciones inter e intra institucional y de coordinación efectiva de trabajo,
capitalizando la experiencia, el conocimiento y las fortalezas de las organizaciones para contribuir a
cumplir las metas e institucionalizar el aprendizaje y las experiencias desarrolladas. Siete organizaciones
internacionales directamente relacionadas con el sector forestal sostenible (FAO, CIPAV, SOCODEVI,
PAMPEV, CATIE, WWF, y GTZ) 10 instituciones de gobierno (INTA, MARENA, alcaldías, 2 gobiernos
regionales, INPYME, INAFOR, MIFIC, CONADES), seis instituciones educativas, mas de 30 productores
y empresas del sector privado, 10 ONG`s, mas de 10 asociaciones de productores y 12 comunidades
indígenas reflejan la participación activa de todos los actores forestales alrededor de esta experiencia piloto
de innovación y aprendizaje, lo cual permite una base sólida para garantizar la sostenibilidad de las
experiencias desarrolladas. El impacto principal de este sistema de alianzas del PROFOR consistió en el
nacimiento y funcionamiento de una red independiente con fines de cooperación horizontal en materia de
asistencia técnica, capacitación, negocios, etc.

3.2.     Componente B: Apoyo a la Reforma Institucional

El objetivo de este componente fue impulsar reformas institucionales y legales en las instituciones del
sector público forestal nicaragüense, que faciliten el proceso de inversiones en forestería sostenible por
parte del sector privado nacional e internacional. Estas reformas incluyeron procesos participativos en la
implementación de los procedimientos y políticas forestales, la formulación de la política nacional de largo
plazo para el desarrollo publico, privado y comunal del sector forestal, desarrollar capacidad institucional
para ejecutar políticas, normas y procedimientos y la formulación de una legislación e investigaciones
apropiadas sobre actividades forestales para la captación de carbono y mercadeo de servicios ambientales.
Adicionalmente se apoyó con equipos electrónicos y de oficina, medios de movilización terrestre y acuática,
consultorías y estudios básicos, sistemas de información, edificios, casetas para el control forestal,
capacitación, asistencia técnica, etc. para facilitar el proceso de inversiones en forestería sostenible por
parte del sector privado nacional e internacional y para monitorear y regular el uso de los recursos
forestales (Ver anexo de matriz de indicadores)

El PROFOR promovió y contribuyó a la formación de la Dirección de Política Forestal del MAG-FOR y
asistió a este Ministerio en la elaboración, consulta y aprobación de una nueva política forestal en base a
un proceso participativo con organizaciones y entidades del sector forestal, municipios y la sociedad civil.
Esta política fue aprobada por el Gobierno y publicada. También promovió y participo directamente en el
proceso de formulación, consulta y aprobación de la nueva Ley Forestal, la cual fue aprobada en el mes de
septiembre de 2003.

Se asistió a INAFOR en sus procesos de reforma institucional, incluyendo la desconcentración en diez
Distritos Forestales, con apoyo en equipamiento y operaciones, y algunos otros apoyos puntuales (ej.
control del brote del gorgojo del pino, control de incendios forestales, etc.). En todo este tiempo, es
evidente que INAFOR ha logrado un mayor cambio en su imagen, filosofía y en la manera de enfrentar las
reformas y manejar la institución. También apoyó la introducción del Sistema de Seguimiento de Trozas (
log sourcing) orientado a hacer realidad (i) la verificación del origen de los productos forestales durante su
procesamiento y (ii) facilitar la certificación forestal y la cadena de custodia. En dos distritos forestales en
los que se aplicó la experiencia de seguimiento de trozas, con la participación ciudadana y de autoridades


                                                      - 48 -

locales, en Nueva Segovia y la región Atlántico Norte (RAAN) la actividad ilegal se redujo hasta en un
90%, lo que demostró la efectividad del sistema, con grandes beneficios ambientales y fiscales para el
sector forestal.

La administración de 1.5 millones de hectáreas de bosques del Estado, y el fortalecimiento institucional de
ADFOREST, requirió de la asistencia al MIFIC por parte del PROFOR, en materia de concesiones
forestales, mediante el fortalecimiento de su marco regulatorio e instrumentos de monitoreo y seguimiento.
También desplegó un plan de capacitación en manejo de bosques comunitarios para técnicos del nivel
central y de las regiones autónomas del Atlántico nicaragüense.

El proyecto ha financiado estudios que han servido de base para la propuesta nacional y las negociaciones
internacionales sobre el mercado de carbono. La inserción de Nicaragua en el mercado internacional del
carbono en el marco del Acuerdo de KIOTO, requirió de asistencia al CONADES-MARENA para
desarrollar los estudios sobre las potencialidades ambientales del sector forestal y la preparación de
iniciativas de proyectos forestales (MDL), potencialmente financiables en el mercado de fijación de
carbono. A nivel interno el proyecto apoyó la divulgación nacional e internacional de las metodologías,
iniciativas y proyectos forestales para aprovechar el emergente mercado internacional carbono.

3.3.     Componente C: Subproyectos Pilotos

El objetivo de este componente, fue desarrollar y probar metodologías y actividades innovadoras y nuevos
mecanismos para encontrar soluciones a los problemas prioritarios del sector privado y comunitario
forestal. Los resultados de la co-inversión para el aprendizaje e innovación de los Subproyectos fueron el
aprendizaje mismo de las lecciones aprendidas, la adaptación y/o ampliación de algunos componentes en el
tiempo real, basado en la experiencia adaptables a necesidades de los productores y soluciones locales.

PROFOR, a través de OPIFS, co-financió 49 Subproyectos de aprendizaje e innovación que fueron
aprobados de una demanda de 180 propuestas. Por cada Subproyectos ejecutado se obtuvo un promedio de
2.7 propuestas.    Estos 49 Subproyectos incluyeron cinco con comunidades indígenas. Este proceso
significó desarrollar una amplia convocatoria, a nivel nacional y la participación de diferentes entidades de
los cuales se incluyeron: Organizaciones de dueños de bosques, cooperativas, productores y empresas del
sector privado, comunidades indígenas, ONGs, universidades e instituciones del sector público.

Los Subproyectos significaron poner bajo manejo forestal un área de 38,210 hectáreas de bosque natural y
secundario, reforestar 3,628 ha. de plantaciones puras y desarrollar 6,170 ha. bajo esquemas agroforestales
y silvopastoriles; además de promover iniciativas de integrar el manejo forestal a la industria para agregar
valor a sus productos forestales. El proceso de selección fue transparente, participativo y tuvo una
cobertura adecuada de eslabones en la cadena de producción forestal. Además los sub-proyectos son un
esquema de cofinanciamiento en que los beneficiados contribuyeron un 49.2% del costo total de este
componente.

3.4.     Componente D. Administración del proyecto:

La Unidad del Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP) fue responsable de coordinar la implementación del
mismo. La UCP coordinó de manera efectiva la ejecución del Proyecto, según establecido en el acuerdo
legal y los planes operativos, teniendo bajo su responsabilidad las unidades técnicas de la OPIFS,
Monitoreo, adquisiciones y contabilidad. La UCP desarrollo una estrategia de comunicación directa, a
través de talleres nacionales y reuniones con grupos representativos, para promover el conocimiento de las
potencialidades, resultados del proyecto y lecciones aprendidas, leyes y regulaciones en el sector forestal.


                                                    - 49 -

Se editaron para su publicación 8 libros conteniendo los resultados de las principales actividades y temas
desarrollados por el PROFOR. Además se produjeron varios Discos Compactos (CDs) conteniendo valiosa
información documental para su difusión, destacándose la experiencia de rehabilitación de las cuatro
microcuencas más afectadas por el Mitch, a través del Subproyecto PROCASITAS, del PROFOR
coejecutado con FAO, el de mayor magnitud con US$ 1.2 millones de dólares de inversión.

También implementó exitosamente en conjunto con la OPIFS, el proceso de convocatoria, selección,
evaluación e implementación de los Subproyectos del sector privado y comunitario. La UCP preparó
planes operativos anuales, coordinó las misiones del Banco Mundial, y organizó talleres y eventos para la
divulgación de los avances del proyecto a nivel nacional e internacional y representó al Proyecto ante las
instancias de gobierno, organizaciones y representantes del sector privado y comunitario forestal. LA UCP
supo manejar los diferentes escenarios derivados del entorno político nacional que generó el cambio de
cinco ministros y cuatro directores de INAFOR en menos de cuatro años.

3.4.1. Seguimiento y Evaluación

La UCP estableció un sistema informatizado de monitoreo y evaluación independiente y de campo que
incluyó 41 Subproyectos con más de cien indicadores, diseñado y operado por el Centro Agronómico
tropical de Investigación y Enseñanza (CATIE) que funcionó exitosamente y que apoyó en forma eficaz el
componente de Subproyectos. Este sistema incluye indicadores de corto y largo plazo para objetivos
generales y específicos. Entre los beneficios del sistema se señalan el aporte de información para conocer
los avances de ejecución de los proyectos del sector privado y comunitario, y documentar los logros en
materia de innovación y aprendizaje. También apoyó con información relevante el sistema de información
forestal (SIFOR) del PROFOR y su posterior integración al Sistema de Información Agropecuaria (SIA)

3.4.2. Aspectos Financieros, Desembolsos y Adquisiciones

Considerando la sumatoria de fondos AIF y de Gobierno, la ejecución del PROFOR logró un 101% de
cumplimiento de ejecución, explicado por un incremento en el fondo del gobierno de un 12%.

Como se puede apreciar en el reporte financiero adjunto, el PROFOR ejecutó el 99.7% de los fondos AIF
asignados al proyecto, de los cuales un 28 % fue dirigido a la promoción y asistencia al sector privado y
comunitario, un 20 % a la asistencia a la reforma al sector público, un 44% a los Subproyectos de
innovación y aprendizaje y sólo un 8% a las actividades de la Unidad Coordinadora del proyecto tal como
se planificò.

Todo el proceso de adquisiciones fue supervisado por funcionarios del Banco Mundial. Una misión de
evaluación (post-review) del proceso de adquisiciones del proyecto el 10 de marzo de 2004 concluyó que el
manejo de los procedimientos ha sido satisfactorio. Los aspectos de desembolsos fueron supervisados en
varias misiones del Banco, encontrando resultados satisfactorios.

4.       Enfoque de Género.

Se incluyó el enfoque de género en la formulación de los Subproyectos, y se logró una fuerte participación
del núcleo familiar en los mismos, destacándose la participación de la mujer en el programa forestal
indígena en el establecimiento de viveros y plantaciones, así como en la introducción de las nuevas
tecnologías de viveros modernos con bandeja y compostaje. También fue muy importante el papel de la
mujer en la fabricación de productos de artesanía forestal. Así mismo, se destacaron mujeres en el nivel
técnico y profesional en la preparación de tesis universitarias de investigación y validación de tecnologías


                                                    - 50 -

forestales en el manejo del Bosque Tropical Seco. En las unidades técnicas y administrativas del PROFOR,
también se destacaron mujeres en cargos estratégicos (Contabilidad, adquisiciones y administración).

5.       Lecciones Aprendidas

Para que el sector forestal sea valorado como parte del sector rural es esencial considerarlo en el sentido
ampliado incluyendo: el enfoque en la cadena productiva, los sistemas forestales, los sistemas
agroforestales, los sistemas silvopastoriles.

Las ferias, visitas a empresas internacionales y seminarios sobre el tema de transformación, y
comercialización han demostrado ser útiles para motivar los empresarios. Esta experiencia mostró a su vez
que los elementos claves a mejorar para fortalecer el sector privado empresarial son el fortalecimiento de
las capacidades de los empresarios en gestión de mercado y en negociación.

La articulación entre mercado-transformación/valor agregado de productos- producción, es una estrategia
clave para el éxito del desarrollo forestal. Para mejorar la competitividad se requiere la conformación de
alianzas horizontales (entre diferentes actores del mismo eslabón) y verticales (entre diferentes eslabones).

El apoyo al marco legal e institucional para el manejo forestal en comunidades indígenas, la capitalización
de la presencia de ONGs en los territorios, promover la alianza de comunidades indígenas con empresas de
transformación) han demostrado ser estrategias efectivas para viabilizar el manejo forestal en las zonas
indígenas.

En particular, la atención simultánea a los temas de tenencia y control sobre los recursos, la claridad en las
responsabilidades y derechos del Estado y de las comunidades, el análisis de la distribución de los ingresos
entre las partes como incentivo para el manejo forestal, y la generación de experiencias técnicas del manejo
forestal basado en una clara identificación del mercado son cuatro elementos determinantes del éxito del
manejo forestal en comunidades indígenas.

La sostenibilidad y continuidad de los procesos de certificación requieren profundizar sobre el rol de
Consejo Nicaragüense de Certificación Forestal Voluntaria (CONICEFV) como instancia para motivar la
certificación, difundir los resultados, gestionar apoyos externos para la capacitación y sensibilización de
empresarios e instituciones del Gobierno.

La articulación de diferentes instancias que vienen a enriquecer la institucionalidad del sector forestal
(además de gremios, empresas, e instituciones públicas) es un reto para el futuro del desarrollo forestal de
Nicaragua. Para lograr cambios sostenibles, se requiere de tres elementos centrales: el desarrollo y la
capitalización de experiencias de campo; el empoderamiento institucional niveles y la voluntad política, de
continuidad en las decisiones.

Las dos estrategias de actuar directamente con productores y a través de co-ejecutores han sido acertadas y
responde a las realidades organizativas y de capacidades de gestión del sector. Es posible movilizar
productores individuales ­predominantes- en el sector forestal         y en forma organizada cuando las
actividades coinciden con sus intereses y con la lógica de funcionamiento de sus sistemas de producción.

Atención a la Demanda: El criterio es correcto. Sin embargo, es necesario establecer criterios de selección
de beneficiarios en base a zonas agroecológicas específicas, potencial organizativo y producción orientada
por el mercado.

La Promoción de inversiones y negocios financiados desde el sector privado no ha sido viable en Nicaragua


                                                    - 51 -

para ninguna actividad productiva. El sector forestal no iba a ser la excepción. Por el contrario, el sector
privado apela a la información de mercado desde el Estado y a reglas del juego claras (impuestos,
incentivos, financiamiento, arreglo institucional con costos de transacción mínimos como la ventanilla
única). Este es el mejor incentivo esperado. Para otro tipo de acciones, los empresarios apelan a su
madurez y autonomía. La promoción de actividades forestales debe incluir el objetivo de diversificación de
las unidades productivas; más aun si se pretende inducir alternativas forestales novedosas.

Las convocatorias desarrolladas a nivel local y regional son efectivas para motivar y sensibilizar los
actores en el tema de manejo de recursos forestales y agroforestales como alternativas de mejoras de sus
sistemas de producción. El co-financiamiento en proyectos forestales demostró ser un mecanismo viable
para potenciar al sector forestal, y generar una conciencia empresarial. Su implementación debe ser flexible
y ajustarse a las condiciones culturales y financieras de los productores. (caso de las comunidades
indígenas)

La implementación de proyectos comunitarios debe estar vinculada directamente a las organizaciones
territoriales autóctonas y no ser sustituidas mecánicamente por organizaciones funcionales hechizas porque
una vez que finaliza el proyecto desaparecen. Esta es la experiencia del PROCASITAS. En el territorio de
este proyecto existen organizaciones campesinas que pudieron fortalecerse con la presencia del Proyecto
pero no ocurrió así.

La mejor experiencia para ejecutar fondos se desarrolló en el proyecto PROCASITAS estableciendo
presupuesto por obras calendarizadas para ser ejecutadas en base a desembolsos parciales y en base a
parámetros de calidad, costos y recomendaciones técnicas. Si una obra no reunía esos parámetros, el
financiamiento se suspendía.

La planificación, el monitoreo y la evaluación son procesos complementarios. La planificación y diseño de
los proyectos debe estar acorde a las premisas de innovación y sostenibilidad. En este caso, el sistema de
monitoreo tuvo que reformar la planificación de los proyectos para introducir aspectos de calidad e
innovación. El monitoreo y evaluación a cargo de un equipo independiente facilita esta actividad, al darle
transparencia y objetividad.

La estrategia organizativa adoptada para la ejecución de fondos demostró ser eficiente desde el punto de
vista financiero. Se utilizaron fondos equivalentes a un 8% como estaba planificado. Debe tomarse en
cuenta que la ejecución alcanzó el 99.7% de los fondos disponibles originalmente.

6.       La Sostenibilidad

Dado que la mayoría de las actividades desarrolladas y los logros alcanzados en cada uno de los
componentes del proyecto fueron planificadas y ejecutadas de manera conjunta con los beneficiarios y
obedecen a las prioridades establecidas por los mismos, tanto en términos económicos como técnicos
orientados por la demanda, es altamente probable que los beneficiarios mantengan y amplíen estos logros.
También se considera que la sostenibilidad de los Subproyectos de co-inversión es altamente probable
debido a que en su proceso de formulación se consideraron los criterios clásicos de factibilidad a mediano y
largo plazo y a que los productores y empresarios han invertido recursos propios compartiendo riesgos. En
el caso particular de los Subproyectos de innovación y aprendizaje, forestales y agroforestales, al
incorporar la producción de bienes y servicios para el mercado, combinando acciones de corto y mediano
plazo bajo una visión empresarial, se espera que la dinámica económica convierta los logros inducidos por
el PROFOR en actividades de negocios sostenidas y con perspectivas de crecimiento.




                                                    - 52 -

Por otra parte, la existencia de organizaciones de fomento productivo en el ámbito rural ­algunas con
apoyo financiero y técnico del Banco Mundial- está permitiendo que muchos beneficiarios del PROFOR
encuentren alternativas de continuidad en el corto plazo para sus iniciativas implementadas. Entre estas
organizaciones se encuentra el IDR y la FUNICA con la recién creada ventanilla forestal promovida por el
PROFOR, y el MARENA con proyectos como el POSAF y el fondo ambiental.

El MAGFOR por su parte, con el financiamiento de una donación japonesa a través del Banco Mundial
(PHRD), se encuentra preparando un programa nacional de desarrollo rural (PRORURAL) con un enfoque
sectorial de base amplia (SWAP), el cual contempla un subprograma forestal de largo plazo -20 años-
(PROFORESTAL) con un enfoque de cadena en el marco del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (PND). Este
subprograma de Desarrollo Forestal se encuentra en la fase de formulación y está previsto para iniciar en el
año 2005.

7.      La Gestión del Banco Mundial en el periodo del Proyecto.

De manera general, la gestión del Banco Mundial se considera positiva y clave en el desempeño del
Proyecto, en el cumplimiento de los objetivos y resultados alcanzados. Un aspecto a resaltar fue la buena
relación que se logro establecer entre la coordinación del proyecto y los funcionarios y técnicos del BM.
Sin embargo, algunos aspectos que afectaron en alguna medida la efectividad del Proyecto son las
siguientes:

7.1.    Cambio de Task Manager durante la ejecución del proyecto. La sustitución del Task Manager
un año y medio antes de la finalización del Proyecto y los cambios en la estructura administrativa que
separaron las funciones de adquisiciones, desembolsos y contabilidad de las funciones tècnicas, siendo
apoyadas por el Banco, generaron dificultades, principalmente por el manejo de la memoria e información
del Proyecto, los mecanismos de seguimiento y comunicación, las relaciones con las autoridades del país y
los stakeholders.

7.2.    Instrumentos de evaluaciones periódicas y finales. Las evaluaciones anuales y de medio término
efectuadas por el BM durante la ejecución del Proyecto no se enmarcaron en los modelos y formatos
establecidos para la evaluación final (ICR). Esta empezò en el mes de cierre del proyecto. Esta situación
impidió la construcción de los indicadores de impacto y los registros sistemáticos que facilitarían la
evaluación final. Como producto de estas limitaciones, se requirió un esfuerzo extraordinario para
recopilar y sistematizar los indicadores.

7.3     Ausencia de Estrategia de Comunicación. El proyecto adoleció de una estrategia de comunicación
que facilitara la divulgación sistemática y oportuna de los resultados y generar sinergias y apoyo político
durante la ejecución del mismo. Esta ausencia de estrategia se debió principalmente porque el Banco
Mundial no aprobó las gestiones del Proyecto en tres ocasiones para diseñar e implementar dicha estrategia
de divulgación y comunicación. Ello dificultò la comprensión del carácter piloto de innovación y
aprendizaje y generò resistencia al accionar del proyecto.




                                                    - 53 -

- 54 -

