Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. 18653-NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION (US$9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
December 9, 1998
Central America Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Cordoba LC
USS1.00  =   11.05 Cordoba
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC                 Atlantic Biological Corridor Project
AFONIC              College of Foresters
APL                 Adaptable Program Loan
ATLMP               Agriculture and Technology Land Management Project
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEI                 Import Export Center
CONADES             National Commission for Sustainable Development
CONAFOR             National Forestry Council
CQ                  Consultants' Qualifications
EA                  Environmental Assessment
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
FLIC                Proposed Forestry Leaming and Innovations Credit
FSC                 Forestry Stewardship Council
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GEF                 Global Environmental Facility
GON                 Government of Nicaragua
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Agency
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
INAFOR              National Forestry Institute
IS                  International Shopping
MAGFOR              Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
MARENA              Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment
MIFIC               Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce
MHCP                Ministry of Finance and Public Finance
NBF                 Not Bank Financed
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NEAP                National Environmental Action Plan
NFIP                National Forestry Investment Program
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
NS                  National Shopping
NTFP                Non Timber Forest Products
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PROTIERRA           Rural Municipalities Project
QCBS                Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RAAN                Autonomous Atlantic Regions of the North
SFIPO               Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office
SiC                 Sector Investment Credit
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
TA                  Technical Assistance
TOR                 Terms of Reference
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
WWF                 World Wildlife Fund
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Team Leaders: Luis Constantino and Paola Agostini



It is clearly worth noting the observation (still true) made several years ago in a SIDA report on
the forest sector (de Vylder, 1992):
"Demandfor commercial timber... is not a main factor of deforestation in Nicaragua, trees are
not being cut down because they are valuable, but rather because they lack commercial value.
Unless a good marketforforestry products can be developed, trees will be continued to be looked
upon as obstacles to agriculture, and be cut down or burnt down, since they represent no
economic benefit for the landowner or shifting cultivator."



Republic of Nicaragua
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. F'roject components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summaiy Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
I. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Maiin Credit Conditions



1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Disbursement conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary and Project Timetable and Output
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Annex 4.      Pilot Subprojects
Annex 5.      MAGFOR Rural Development Strategy and National Environmental Plan: The
Forestry Sector
Annex 6.      Indigenous People Development Plan
Annex 7.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 8.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 9.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 10.    Documents in Project File
Annex 11.    Statement of IBRD and IDA Credits
Annex 12.    Ministerial Resolution
Annex 13.    Country at a Glance
List of Tables
Annex 3.
Table 1: Principal Actors
Table 2: Roles of Key Actors by Component
Annex 4.
Table 1: Project Geographic and Thematic Priorities for Pilot Subprojects
Table 2: Subproject Financing Criteria
Annex 5.
Table 1: National Environmental Action Plan: priority interventions in the forest sector and
IDA assistance
Annex 8.
Table 1: Prior Review Thresholds
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table 3: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
List of Maps
Map no.29637 Nicaragua Natural Forest Cover



Republic of Nicaragua
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America Country Management Unit
Date: 12/09/98                                      Task Team Leaders: Luis Constantino and Paola Agostini
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo      Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: 52080      Sector: Rural and Environment  Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Credit        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ I Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan      [X ] Credit      [  Guarantee        [I Other ISpecifyl
For Credits/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDR):6.4 million
Proposed terms:                        [x]  Multicurrency      [I  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [    Standard Variable  [ I  Fixed             []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5
Service charge: 0.75
Financing plan (US$):
Source       Local                Foreign             Total
Government            1.0                                  1.0
Beneficiaries         3.8                 1.2               5.0
IDA            6.5                2.5               9.0
Total          11.3                3.7              15.0
Borrower:
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Estimated disbursemenits (Bank FY/US$M):   1999       2000        2001       2002      2003
Annual    1.00        3.04       2.76        1.20      1.00
Cumulative     1.00       4.04       5.80       8.00      9.0
For Guarantees: NA                               []  Partial credit    [I Partial risk
Project implementation period: 1999-2002 Expected effectiveness date: March 30, 1999
Expected Closing Date: March 30, 2003



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
1. The project development objective of this Sector Investment Credit is to improve local capacity
(private and public) and develop alternatives to address long term forestry issues in Nicaragua. The
importance of the forestry sector is even greater now given the tragic events of Hurricane Mitch. These
effects in fact were compounded by the deforestation caused by human development, expansion of the
agriculture frontier, and unsustainable human activities. The establishment of a basis for improved
forestry management will be started by promoting environmentally sound private sector investments,
improving the business environment, reducing the perception of risk in forestry sector activities, and by
helping to define forestry institutional policies and reforms through a participatory process. This project
would be the first phase of a longer-term effort to improve forestry management and private sector
development. Subsequent Government efforts to implement the Program could eventually be supported
by an Adaptable Program Credit (APC) and other donors. The project is expected to: (a) provide
technical assistance to private and communal sector forestry through the creation and operation of the
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office (SFIPO), supported by an International Forestry
Advisory Panel; (b) provide technical assistance to newly created National Forestry Institute (INAFOR),
to the Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce (MIFIC), to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAGFOR), and the National Commission for Sustainable Development (CONADES) in
promoting investment in sustainable forestry and reforestation; (c) launch an assistance program to
private/communal forestry entrepreneurs through matching grant financing of Pilot Subprojects. The
three and a half year project would be executed in a participatory manner in order to build the capacity,
consensus, and constituency necessary for successful implementation of the long-term program. A
monitoring and evaluation system would be established to measure the learning and innovation process,
and facilitate the incorporation of lessons and experiences into the future investment program. The
philosophy of the project, and project activities, will be based on the following guiding principle: (a)
promotion of public-private sector partnerships; (b) use of market-based instruments to achieve
sustainable forestry objectives; and (c) extensive involvement of civil society in policy reform.
2. Performance indicators measuring progress towards achieving the development objective would
include: (a) the SFIPO fully functioning, providing demand-driven services to non government forestry
stakeholders, improving the business environment and capacity for private sector and communal sector
sustainable forestry investment; (b) policies and strategies for forestry sector developed and agreed with
principal stakeholders by year 4; and (c) the program of pilot subprojects executed, results evaluated and
integrated into the long term forestry planning.
3. Outputs of the projects are: i) increased access to "know how", best practices, applicable technology,
and financial resources among key end-users in the forestry sector; ii) more effective participation by
non-government stakeholders' in the formulation of forestry sector policy and in the public sector's
strategic decision-making processes; iii) more effective facilitation by the public sector support of
private and communal forestry development activities.
4. Indicators of project output would include: (i) Stakeholders' satisfaction on response and results from
their requests for assistance on obtaining forest sector information, access to technology and markets,
training, and financing; forestry certification standards developed and disseminated; new financiers
investing in forestry projects; (ii) Jointly developed policies & strategies for forestry sector; (iii) At least
9 subprojects completed, results evaluated and integrated into public sector strategy for forestry
development.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17496   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 1998



Page 3
5. Develop the rural sector, consolidate growth for private sector development, and strengthen
environmental protection are the sector related CAS goals. In particular the project is mentioned in the
CAS in page 13 where it is stated: "IDA will also assist in the preparation of a project to promote rational
forestry development by the private sector". In fact this project supports several specific goals identified
by the CAS. Most notably, they include improving natural resources (environmental) management;
developing the private sector; and promoting decentralization. The Government and the CAS appreciate
the necessity of improving the country's natural resources management because the natural resources are
critical for the sustainability of the country. Initially the project was conceived as a component of Land
Management 11 (in the pipeline), but then during the Consultative Group meeting in April the Government
requested a forestry project justified by the importance of the forestry sector for Nicaragua's
development, and the urgency for reforestation and land rehabilitation activities after Hurricane Mitch. A
forestry project is needed because: 1) the institutional capacity of the private sector and of the government
needs to be built up in preparation for a large scale program; 2) the forestry sector in Nicaragua is a
promising territory for which viable, technical, financial, social and environmental solutions are not yet
known; 3) the necessity to pilot potentially good sustainable forestry development effort in situations
where the time is right and the ground has been laid through local initiatives and partners efforts.
Experimentation and piloting are needed to determine the best policy and technical solutions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
6. Major sector issues. Forestry in Nicaragua has been well researched and has received substantial
multi- and bi-lateral assistance. Due to the war and rapid political changes over the past two decades very
little (with some exceptions) had been done to transform the considerable body of knowledge into
concrete actions affecting the management of forests. Throughout this time, Forestry has been a primarily
public sector initiative with a heavy focus on increasing public expenditure into the sector to improve
management and achieve conservation and sustainability. Unfortunately, this strategy has yet to bear fruit
after almost twenty years and direct investments in public sector forestry of (conservatively) over US$45
million. In this context, one of the major issues currently facing the Republic of Nicaragua in terms of
forestry management is the lack of entrepreneurial expertise to take advantage of existing opportunities
for a more effective, productive, and sustainable management of forest and land resources. Nor does
there exist any credible forestry sector institution to facilitate and promote the management of forestry
resources by non-government stakeholders. As of 3 September 1998 some of the responsibilities for the
forestry sector have been shifted to the newly created National Forestry Institute (INAFOR). INAFOR's
creation under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAGFOR) is in response to the Law of the
Modernization of the State (published 3 June 1998 in the Gazette) which absolved the Ministry of
Environment (MARENA) of its responsibilities for all but the regulatory and oversight environmental
aspects of Iforestry, passing them to MAGFOR. In this new institutional scenario, MAGFOR is
responsible for the productive forests in all the national territory, MARENA for the enforcement of the
environmental regulations and the Minister of Economy (MIFIC) for the concessions policy on state
lands. INAFOR, a semi-autonomous forestry agency, will plan and execute forestry policies and
programs. [NAFOR's design and operating regulations will need to be prepared by MAGFOR. This
project will provide immediate assistance to MAGFOR and INAFOR and assist in the latter's
strengthening in facilitating and promoting private (non-government stakeholders) investment in
sustainable forestry.
7. The uncertainty of title is also one of the main sector issues. Lack of formal definition of indigenous
rights is a source of tension in the Atlantic region and poses risks for the project's long-term success.
Moreover, definition of indigenous rights is an essential condition to help manage the forest and to
improve the sustainability of natural resource management, both key objectives of the Forestry Project
and the Atlantic Biological Project. It is important to note that land tenure is a prerequisite to the
implementation of a sustainable forestry policy for the country and the Atlantic in particular. The
Government plans to address the issue of indigenous groups' rights to land and natural resources, the first
step of which will be the adoption of a law and procedures for the demarcation of indigenous land. IDA
will assist the Government with financing for technical assistance needed to clarify the property rights of



Page 4
indigenous peoples. A draft legislation for the demarcation of indigenous land has been submitted to
Congress, and this is only the first step of a long-term strategy for demarcation and titling.
8. An example of conflicts over land are the concessions (forestry and mining) that were given for the
Atlantic coast without taking into account the indigenous peoples' rights. The civil sector is aware of the
issue, and has been very active in resolving it. Some concessions were withdrawn because of the active
involvement of the international community, local NGOs and the indigenous leaders. The project will
work directly with MIFIC to help resolve this issue, developing the appropriate policies.
Background
9. Forests. Since 1950 forest cover has been reduced from 7 million hectares to an estimated 4.3 million
hectares (PAF, 1992). In 1985, one author (Peters, 1985) estimated the rate of deforestation to be 0.1
million ha/yr. Other authors estimates range from between 0.07 million ha/yr. in 1990 (Utting, 1993) to
about 0.125 million ha/yr. for the period 1981 to 1990 (FAO, 1993) and 1991 (Merlet et al, 1993).
According to the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), in 1994 the demand for deforestation was
at 0.1 million ha/yr. and, according to a study commissioned by the Swedish bilateral assistance (de
Camino, 1997) continues today at a rate between 1.6 and 3.9% per year of the remaining forests. Land
classified as suitable only for forestry usage occupies about 6.2 million ha; divided as 1.8 million ha for
conservation and 4.4 million ha for sustainable use. Some 2.5 million hectares of these lands are
deforested and being used for extensive livestock production or are abandoned and under mixed
grass/shrubs. Of the remaining forest areas about 88% or 3.8 million hectares consists of a humid,
tropical forest cover type within which there is very little positive management experience to draw upon.
Another 0.50 million ha is under pine forest, the majority of which is classified as having productive
potential, and for which there exists some technical base for sustainable management. See Annex 5.
According to 1990 data (utilized by the NEAP) the structure and classification of Nicaragua's forests was:
Table 1. Forest Structure and Classification
POTENTIAL FtNCTION ('000 HA)
FOREST TYPE           PRODllCTION      PROTECTION      CONSERVATION         TOTAL
Broadleaf
*  Dense - harvestable          1,100
*  Intervened - Restoration     1,303
Subtotal                        2,130             600              1,070            3,800
Pine
*  Potentially Productive        300
*  Low Productivity              170
Subtotal                         470               30                                500
Total                 2,600             630              1,070            4,300
Specific, priority issues include:
10. Deforestation - the main value of forest in Nicaragua has been in its conversion to agriculture. As
such, the "expansion of the agricultural frontier" is reported to be the principle cause of deforestation.
The greatest pressures are in the Atlantic and some parts of the Central zone. Unsustainable human
development activities are the cause of deforestation in the Pacific; they also worsened the effects of
Hurricane Mitch in the departments of Leon and Chinandenga. At current rates it is estimated that only
10 to 15 years would be required to eliminate the remaining areas of productive broadleaf forests
(PAA/NIC, 1994). The end of the war and return of peace to the near-forest zones and demobilization of
a large number of soldiers (both government and contras) in the early 1990s has apparently contributed
significantly to an increase in the rate of conversion. The expansion of agricultural lands and forest
conversion also have roots which lie in: i) lack of economic incentives for forest management; ii) low
productivity and non-sustainable agricultural practices; iii) poorly defined land tenure; iv) lack of
alternate employment; and (v) a strong agricultural tradition where forests are considered an obstacle and
little or no tradition of forest management.



Page 5
11. It is clearly worth noting the observation (still true) made several years ago in a SIDA report on the
forest secitor (de Vyider, 1992):
"Demand'for commercial timber... is not a main factor of deforestation in Nicaragua; trees are not being
cut down because they are valuable, but rather because they lack commercial value. Unless a good
market forforestry products can be developed, trees will be continued to be looked upon as obstacles to
agriculture, and be cut down or burnt down, since they represent no economic benefit for the landowner
or shifting cultivator. "
12. Forest: management - the traditional system for forest management in Nicaragua has been to remove
only the valuable species with no subsequent consideration of damage to the residual stand or for follow
up management and/or control. In this system forest was not treated as a renewable resource, it was
simply mined for its value. Beginning in 1993 forestry regulations have been in effect which require
forest management plans to be approved prior to harvesting. Since then more than 290 forest properties
and 0.19 million ha of forest have had plans approved (de Camino, 1997). The regulations have also
separated within government the normative and administrative functions over forest. The system is,
however, yet incipient and weak. Development of regulatory capacity has been taking place within the
context of structural adjustment and reduction of the state. Government forestry personnel are few;
trained technical staffs are limited in number, and they are concentrated in Managua rather than in the
areas where the forests exist. There are still very few examples where forests are being intentionally
managed under sustainability objectives. The situation is relatively much worse in the humid tropical
forests where information, technical systems, and trained personnel to manage the forests are generally
lacking. 1Trend data on forest cover and forest use is lacking for much of the humid tropics. Management
data on resource abundance, distribution and regenerative capacity is almost completely missing. Some
90% of the forest areas with approved management plans are in the humid tropical forests, where the
technical base for determining sustainable harvesting limits and mitigating harvesting impacts is quite
weak. The situation in the pine forests is relatively better. An acceptable technical guide for pine forest
management has been developed and is being successfully applied; such a tool does not exist for the
broadleaf forests. Within the pine forests of the north there are some area inventories and an active
process is underway to inventory others. More than ten thousand hectares have had management plans
developed in the last 2 years, and efforts are ongoing by non-government actors to sustainably manage
forest on something more than a pilot scale; including a joint effort by associations of forest owners and
saw millers and municipal governments (in the pine forests ofNueva Segovia) to develop a zonal master
plan for suistainable pine forest management.
13. Fuelwood - in 1992 about 60% of net energy consumption came from fuelwood (57%) and charcoal
(I%); almost 99% of which went for residential use (PAA/NIC, 1994). According to the PAF (1992),
wood fuel represented about 95% of the average US$ 149 million annual value of forestry products in the
early 1990s. Whether or not fuelwood harvesting constitutes a forest degrading activity in some locations
is unknown. What is certain is that fuelwood production and harvesting is unmanaged and risks exist of it
becoming a forest degrading activity. Harvesting and sales of wood fuels constitutes a significant income
generating activity among the rural poor. Fuelwood is in short supply near densely populated urban
centers and prices have been reported as being high. However, near densely populated areas in the
Pacific zone (i.e. Leon) there are indications that fuelwood is currently priced as if it were abundant.
Given the large areas of land being allowed to reconvert to woody vegetation, fuelwood may indeed be
more abundant than previous reports.
14. Fire - is a major problem throughout the country where recurrent burning (primarily for agricultural
purposes) is a major contributor to forest degradation and failure of reforestation efforts. Annually, some
200,000 ha were reported as effected in 1992, dropping steadily to 83,000 ha in 1995. Since 1995,
however, it is reported that fire is on the increase, partly due to reductions in GON efforts. During the
current (1998) dry season, the effects of El Nifio-related drought have contributed to a massive increase in
forest fires, including within the humid tropical forests of the Atlantic and Rio San Juan. Fires have been



Page 6
so severe that the international airport in Managua had been closed several times in the months of
April/May 1998 due to loss of visibility to smoke and the incidence of respiratory illnesses is reportedly
increasing in the capitol.
15. Government strategy. A major goal of the Government is to reverse the trends of natural resources
degradation and ensure that the Nicaragua forestry contributes to, rather than impedes, social and
economic development. To meet this goal the Government intends to: (a) develop and adopt legal, fiscal,
and institutional reforms for forestry management (i.e. regulation of INAFOR); (b) undertake projects to
help implement the reforms (the approved Rural Municipalities Project 1, the Atlantic Biological Corridor
Project (ABC), the Agriculture and Technology Project I; the proposed Rural Municipalities Project 11,
Agriculture and Technology Project 11, and this proposed Forestry Project; etc) and (c) improve the
business environment for private sector development.
16. The Government has already initiated important actions towards accomplishing these steps. These
actions include, for example: (a) approving and publishing the Law of Modernization of the State (June 3,
1998) in which the responsibilities for policy formulation for the forestry sector shift from the Ministry of
Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (see para.6). ; (b) approving the Atlantic
Biological Corridor GEF project which establishes priorities for biodiversity conservation within what
constitutes the vast majority of Nicaragua's remaining natural forests; and (c) submitting to the Assembly
a law to define the process of land and natural resource titling and demarcation for the indigenous people
of the Atlantic Coast and solve some potential land issues over forestry.
17. Although Government efforts are numerous and important, they are also insufficiently coordinated
and targeted, not based on up-to-date scientific data, and often not founded on widespread stakeholder
participation. Several recent Government attempts to reform the legal framework - most notably the
forestry policy' and proposed indigenous law- faced opposition on technical grounds and because of
insufficient public consultation. These experiences have taught Government the necessity of basing
reforms on technically solid initiatives that have been prepared with appropriate stakeholder
participation. However, despite this knowledge and intent, the Government does not now have the
institutional capacity to gather the necessary technical knowledge, manage the policy reform process, and
prepare a coherent strategy for forestry management reform that would improve the business environment
for the sustainable development of the sector. Initial steps to consult with the private sector and the civic
society on how to resolve the sector issues were taken during the project preparation. Two workshops
were organized to discuss reforestation issues and the participation of the private sector in forest policies.
One of the early conclusions of this consultation process was the necessity to have an objective third party
that would bring together the supply and the demand of the forestry sector in Nicaragua, helping with the
commercialization, the new technologies and the new markets for the sector. This project would help
establish such an office (Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
18. Sector issues to be addressed. The project would address the lack of an action program to improve
the forestry sector environment and jump-start the development of the sector through initiatives by non-
government stakeholders while assisting Government in the definition of the newly created National
Forestry Institute and its policies and relations with the private and communal forestry sectors ( including
aspects relevant to potential for development of carbon sequestration mechanisms). To address the lack
of an action program to improve the environment for the development of the sector, technical assistance
will be provided to make operational a Sustainable Forestry Promotion Office that will stimulate and
inform the discussion of viable options for improving forestry management. The office would be a key
element to build the institutional capacity to facilitate and promote private investment (land, in-kind,
capital, research demanded by stakeholders related to improving the technical basis for sustainable,
The proposed Forestry Law is now in Congress, but it will be withdrawn to be reviewed to make it consistent with
the Law of Modernization of the State. It also needs revisions on the concessions policy.



Page 7
productive forestry) in sustainable forestry activities, to test innovative approaches, and to capture and
disseminate sustainable management experiences. Further, the project would assist GON in seeking to
build consensus on the appropriate mechanisms and public investments for coordinated and sustainable
forestry management.
19. Strategic choices. The structured subproject and participatory approach to be used in this project
would reduce the risk of failure, increase the chances for widespread support for implementation, and
enhance awareness on alternatives for sustainable natural resource management. The context for these
approaches are the numerous reforms which have been proposed in the past and which have neither been
adopted nor effectively implemented due to the lack of careful, participatory analyses or processes which
lead to establishment of proper incentive frameworks. The justification for these approaches is the need
to avoid the risk that another failed attempt will seriously undermine the possibility of enacting real
reform. The Government recognizes the need for careful and participatory analysis and the importance of
establishing a proper incentive framework to guide private sector activities. Both the Government and
IDA also recognize that the country should first go through this "adaptive learning" process prior to
undertaking any major investments. This project would define the key policy and institutional reforms
and investment priorities. Adoption of these reforms could be preconditions for IDA consideration of a
possible A PC2.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description)
Conponent                Category       Cost Incl.    % of      IDA-      % of IDA-
Contingencies   Total   financing    financing
(US$M)                (US$M)
Technical Assistance to Private and  Consulting       2.7          18%      2.2          24%
Communal Sector Forestry by SFIPO    Services,
Goods,
Training,
Recurrent/
Operating
Costs
Public Sector Forestry Assistance to  Consulting       1.3          9%      1.1          12%
MAGFOR-INAFOR-MIFIC-               Services;
CONADES                            Training,
Recurrent/
Operating
Costs
Pilot Subprojects                  Grants for         10.0         67%      5.0          56%
Subprojects
(TA, goods
and works);
Administrat:ion                    Goods;              1.0          7%      0.7           8%
(PCU)                              Consulting
Services;
Recurrent/
Operating
Costs
Total                                                 15.0        100%      9.0         100%
Project Component 1: Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry.
2An expected requirement of the APC will be that the Indigenous People Demarcation Law be enacted and
noticeable progress made in demarcation.



Page 8
20. The component would finance technical assistance, training, workshops, studies, office equipment
and supplies, vehicles, and operational expenses. This component would initiate a broad range of
practical activities in the forestry sector and ultimately lead to an improved use and management of the
forest and forest resources. In order to mobilize funds, entrepreneurial spirit and expertise and to capture
the opportunities for a more effective and productive sustainable management of the forest and land
resources in Nicaragua, the project would finance TA and related costs for:
*  assistance to develop certification of environmentally sound forestry practices (forest
certification) as a mean to achieve sustainable forestry management and reaching new
markets - development of national criteria, training of certifiers, and pilot certification cost-
sharing.
*  promotion and facilitation of sustainable private investments;
*  transfer and introduction of appropriate technologies and best practice;
*  integration of small holders into the productive process by developing financial and economic
incentives;
*  identification of key public investments to facilitate private activities
* establishment of a forest sector information system
* marketing and commercialization outreach program
* a capacity building outreach program for sustainable forestry
* promotion and facilitation of reforestation and land rehabilitation activities
- education and communication of sustainable forestry management
21. To provide the assistance and specific support the project would finance consultant services, equipment and
administrative expenses of the Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office (SFIPO), to be created by
Ministerial Resolution under MAGFOR. Its action and work program would be guided by anadhoc Steering
Committee, to be established by MAGFOR, which represents both Govemment and non government stakeholder
interests.
22. The SFIPO's terms of reference would be to mobilize expertise and funds, provide up-to-date internal and
external information on the sector, establish local, regional and international connections to investors and
sources of technology. The SFIPO main task would be to manage existing information, facilitate access to
information (e.g., through the internet), establish contacts and provide services to potential investors, national
and international institutions and the government. Within the three-year project timeframe it is expected to
attract investments and foment development activities. It should also become a major technical force in the
development and preparation of sectoral investment plans. In the short-term,SFIPO's institutional relationship
to the newly created INAFOR would be as a link between government regulators and private sector and
communal investors. It would: (i) operate within the context of GON's forestry policies, (ii) assist INAFOR and
MAGFOR by ensuring that the private and communal sector were well-informed of the normative and
regulatory frameworks; (iii) promote compliance with the normative and regulatory frameworks through its
actions with the private sector; but (iv) its priorities and specific work programs would be defined by its Steering
Committee, to whom it would ultimately be answerable. In this fashion SFIPO will assist INAFOR and
MAGFOR to avoid the dilemma posed by the conflicting promotion and regulation mandates suffered by many
Forestry departments. In the medium term, the Government might no longer need to maintain this office, under
a scenario of SFIPO evolving into a private sector supported organization like Nicaragua's UNICAFE (an
autonomous technical assistance entity financed by and which responds to coffee producers) which also
provides services like that of CEI (mport-Export Center - a non-profit organization).
23. The project's success is greatly based on ensuring a proper orientation from the start-up phase of both the
SFIPO and the project. To assist GON and the project to develop the needed clear, strategic vision of how the
forestry sector's potential might be achieved within a sustainable development context, the project would
finance the establishment of an International Forestry Advisory Panel (IFAP); this would also have the
benefit of lowering both project monitoring and initial technical assistance costs to a minimuni. The IFAP's
3 This model was already successfully tested in the National Afforestation Project in China.



Page 9
assistance would be provided directly, flexibly and in custom tailored fashion (and at a much lower cost than
normal for international or bi-lateral assistance). The Panel would be comprised of at least three world-class
experts on forestry sector development and sustainable management. They will bring in additional expertise as
required (including biodiversity specialists and indigenous people specialists). The Panel would meet twice in
project year one and at least once a year thereafter. Importantly, the Panel would be in permanent contact with
the project through the Intemet, in order to answer questions or provide contacts to required sources of expertise.
Project Cornponent 2 - Assistance To Forestry Sector Institutional Reform.
24. The project would finance technical assistance, training, studies, workshops, public consultations, and
publications for providing support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock under its new legal
mandate as the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MAGFOR), to its newly created National
Forestry Institute (INAFOR), and to the Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce (MIFIC).
MAGFOR is in charge of designing forestry policies, technical and administrative norms and procedures;
INAFOR is responsible to implement forestry policies technical and administrative norms and
procedures; and MIFIC is responsible for designing forestry concessions policies, technical and
administrative norms and procedures. In addition, the component would provide technical assistance to
the National Commission for Sustainable Development (CONADES), to research forestry initiatives and
their carbon sequestration market potential. The sub-components are:
- Assistance to INAFOR and MAGFOR to: (i) create internal capacity for the development of
forestry policy, norms, and procedures; (ii) assist in the elaboration of a strategy to develop a
national forestry policy and related norms, and procedures; and (iii) to implement a participatory
process to build consensus and gamer strong support around the development of a forestry
strategy. One expected outcome from these activities would be the development of a proposal for
forestry sector investment which includes specific commitments from the principal non-
governmental forestry sector stakeholders on their roles and contributions to the forestry sector
development process. A secondary benefit of the process would be expected in terms of a
significantly enhanced situation as regards participation, communication and conflict
management between distinct interests in the involved regions.
*  Assistance to MIFIC: to develop the rules and regulations for forestry concessions in public land
given the new functions established by the Law of Modernization of the State for the Ministry of
Economy. The financing will be utilized for studies, workshops and technical assistance.
-  Assistance to CONADES: to assist them in the development of the enabling national policy
frannework for forestry activities for the carbon sequestration market. The financing would be
utilized for technical assistance, studies, workshops for coordination and priority setting,
representation in international meetings, and promotion of forestry offsets in Nicaragua.
Project Component 3 -Pilot Subprojects:
25. The objective of this component would be to develop and test innovative activities and new
mechanisms for finding solutions to priority forestry sector problems, including innovative models for
reforestation and land rehabilitation, forestry resource management (certification, ecolabeling), increasing
decentralization of forestry functions, public-private sector partnerships, creative financing mechanisms
for sustainable forestry management and reforestation. To achieve this objective, the project would
finance, on a cost-sharing basis, a program of grants to private sector, non-governmental organizations,
communities and rnunicipalities to carry out the pilot sub-projects which included specific actions for
monitoring and evaluating the results of implementation. The eligibility, terms and conditions will be set
forth in the Subprojects Manual would be adopted as a condition of disbursement of subprojects. The
specific pilots to be supported would include the following: (a) Private/Communal Forestry Initiative
Subprojects and (b) technology introduction and verification subprojects, for example:



Page 10
* Private and communal sector forestry initiatives within which eligible subprojects would be those that
had the potential to be replicated programmatically on scales significant to departmental or regional
forestry resource management and its forestry-products based economy. The experiences to be
gained through the financing of these initiatives would assist GON to better refine the role of
government in the facilitation and promotion of forestry investments, i.e., to "test the market" prior to
committing to larger, risky, or potentially, distorting schemes. The types of subprojects expected
would include: sustainable forestry at the agricultural frontier; planning and development of tropical
broadleaf forest resources; planning and development of pine forest resources; multiple-use
reforestation; secondary forest management; incorporation of timber, non-timber, and fruit species for
shade coffee plantations. The types of activities included under the subprojects would be such things
as: achieving eligibility for certification of forestry and forestry products; forest fire management and
protection; natural forest management; tree nurserying; planting and management of trees either in
pure or mixed stands, or individually as part of agroforestry or silvopastoral systems; non-timber
forest product management and utilization; shade coffee plantation management; secondary forest
management and reforestation for fuelwood production; vertical integration of smallholder producers
and wood-based microenterprises; and enhancing forest enterprise business management and
marketing and commercialization capacity. Other activities or costs eligible for grant financing would
include: technical assistance for subproject formulation; direct costs for grant administration; training
and technical assistance; small purchases of goods and equipment justified for technology
introduction and training purposes or for public good content (e.g., fire fighting tools); small works
and infrastructure justified for public good content (e.g., fire watch towers and fire ponds, control
posts, cooperative solar wood dryers); maintenance, operational and logistical costs. Each subproject
will monitor, evaluate and disseminate results, including optional assistance to the local govemment
to hold annual municipal workshops for local forestry sector coordination.
Technology introduction and verification initiatives within which eligible subprojects would be
those with the potential to provide results in the short term to the resolution of key technical
constraints to the financially-viable management of forestry resource by non-government
stakeholders and to the forestry-products based economy and with potential to be disseminated on
scales significant to the departmental or regional levels. Preliminary areas of interest have been
identified as: (i) reforestation improvement (clones, seeds, provenance's), planting stock
improvement, seed source certification, nursery improvement (root trainers, planting media),
plantation establishment, native species; (ii) natural forest management improvement - simplified
management planning for smallholders, low-impact harvesting of wood and non-wood products,
improved methodologies and practices for stand inventories, silvicultural techniques and
protection against fire and pathogens and; (iii) processing and product improvement -- reduction
of waste and environmental damage associated with processing of forest products; improving
quality and value-added of forest product output; use of non wood forest products. Activities
eligible for grant financing would include: refinement of subproject formulation; direct costs for
grant administration; training and technical assistance; salaries of field assistants; goods,
equipment, and consumables required for research and analytical purposes; small works and
infrastructure directly related to the financed research (e.g., fencing of research plots, protected
storage sheds, demonstration-scale models for technology verification); monitoring and analysis;
results dissemination; and maintenance, operational and logistical costs.
Project Component 4. Project Administration
26. This component would finance the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The PCU would have overall responsibility for project
administration, coordination between MAGFOR and other relevant government institutions (MARENA,
MIFIC, MHCP, CONADES, and INIFOM), procurement and disbursement, and meeting IDA's reporting
requirements. A small office consisting of a Project Coordinator, Procurement and Disbursement
officers, secretary, and other support staff (i.e., driver, cleaner) would be financed along with required
office equipment, vehicle, minor works for office rehabilitation, and operational budget. The office will
be allowed to bring in additional expertise as required. Financing would also be provided through this



Page I I
component for the meetings of the Project Steering Committee, annual independent financial and
technical audits amd for internal evaluation for mid-term and final reviews.
2. Key pol'icy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
27. As noted above, the project would support, as part of policy formulation in Component 2, the
organizational design of the Forestry Institute regulations, clarify its role and the role of GON in promoting
sustainable forestry activities by non-government stakeholders. In addition, it would identify key reforms
in the legal, institutional and fiscal framework affecting the forestry sector and the GON's ability to provide
an enabling environment for sustainable forestry initiatives by non-government stakeholders. The project
will also support MIFIC in developing rules and regulations for forestry concessions in public land. The
Forestry Law now in Congress will need to be revisited to make it consistent with the Modernization of the
State Law (published in the Gazette on June 3, 1998). Funds from the Rural Municipalities Project are
available for these revisions.
28. In addition, the project would support SFIPO in evolving into a private sector supported organization
like Nicaragua's CEI (Import Export Center - non profit organization), or UNICAFE - an autonomous
technical assistance entity financed by and which responds to coffee producers.
3. Benefits and target population:
29. The major benefit of this project would be that it would create the basis for a longer-termn forestry
program to reverse natural resources degradation and improve the potential for private sector leadership in
developmenit of sustainable forestry initiatives in Nicaragua. The lack of a program not only undermines
sustainable development, but also affects especially the country's poorest citizens.
30. The immediate target population of this project would consist of members of the private sector and
non-governmental organizations, forest and land owners (e.g., groups of small and medium-sized owners,
communities - including indigenous, cooperatives) and central and local-level Government officials that
are involved in aspects of natural resources and forestry management. The project would benefit women
by particularly addressing and reaching women with TA, training, workshops and subprojects. However,
a much wider target population would be reached through the participatory process and communication
campaign implemented during the project. It is intended that the process of developing the Forestry
Institute should provide the opportunity for all key stakeholders to participate through their
representatives and thus potentially benefit from the outcomes of the process. Staffing of SFIPO will be
done to be responsive to indigenous peoples and gender considerations.
31. The project would benefit indigenous peoples by particularly addressing and reaching indigenous
communities with TA, training, workshops and subprojects as will be stated in the Operational Manual
and in the Subprojects Manual. Grant for subprojects for economic (forestry production) activities will be
given in areas where land titling issues have been resolved. To avoid unduly prejudicing the project
against working in the Atlantic, during the course of the project implementation the SFIPO would seek
assistance of organizations (e.g. WWF) who have established presence in the Atlantic and ample
experience in the forestry sector to promote the development of subprojects in areas and with
communities in RAAN and RAAS where conditions would allow implementation (see Annex 6
Indigenous IPeople Development Plan).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
32. The proposed institutional structure is: MAGFOR as implementing agency, a PCU directly dependent
from the Minister, and the SFIPO created under the PCU by Ministerial Resolution. The PCU would be
4 Annex 3 provides details of the institutional and implementation arrangements.



Page 12
responsible for the execution of those activities which are for the Government and SFIPO for those which
are for the private sector to implement. The SFIPO will respond to its Steering Committee for its annual
plan and budget (see organigram). The PCU and the SFIPO will be created by the same Ministerial
Resolution, and the Steering Committee by an Inter-Ministerial Resolution.
33. The PCU established in MAGFOR will handle procurement; disbursement; accounting; contracting;
project monitoring and supervision; meeting GON and IDA reporting requirements; arrange supervision
and evaluation visits and meetings of International Forestry Advisory Panel; project coordination (as per
recommendation of the Financial Assessment).
34. The Steering Committee will be composed of the Ministers of MAGFOR, MARENA, MIFIC,
MHCP, private sector and civil society representatives, including indigenous people of the Atlantic Coast;
the Project Coordinator will be the secretary of the Steering Committee and will participate in the
meetings with no right to vote. This representative body would assist to ensure project orientation
balances demands of principal stakeholder groups. In this role, the Committee would ensure close inter-
institutional collaboration on the project, oversee the work of the SFIPO, approve its annual plan, and
program the budget. Most of the monitoring would be carried out by the International Advisory Panel of
Experts created and financed by the project5.
35. A coordinating committee would meet at least once quarterly to ensure the project's consistency with
sectoral policy framework, ensure adequate coordination between the Minister of MAGFOR, INAFOR,
the Policy Unit and the Project, and to review and recommend approval of the project's annual operating
plan. The members of this committee would consist of: (i) the Minister of Agriculture (or any other
person he might delegate for the purposes of this committee), (ii) the Director of Policy Unit of
MAGFOR, (iii) the Director of INAFOR, (iv) a Technical Advisor from the Ministry of Agriculture, and
(v) the Project Coordinator.
5 World Bank supervision would be done in association with supervision and preparation missions for PROTIERRA
1, ABC, Agricultural Technology and Land Management 1, GEF Atlantic Biological Corridor Project, and
proposed PROTIERRA 11 and Land Management 1I projects.



Page 13
Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Forestry
(MAGFOR)
STEERING
CO M  M  ITTEE                                                                                    ........................................................
I MAGFOR                                                                                   Coordinating Committee
... ..................  .............. .
I MIFIC                                                                                   (MAGFOR, INAFOR, Policy
I MARENA                                                                                   Unit, PCU)
I MHCP
I Industrial Sector
I Forestry Sector
I Banking Sector                                              Project Coordination
I Agriculture Sector                                               Unit (PCU) ordnationa
I Indigenous People                                               .U ........C.. .U.)...                                       Forestry
Secretary (PCU)                                                                                                                A L,
K   PRIVATE SUPPORT    >                                                                  (       SUPPORT PROGR
l  SFIPO                                                                uppor              /Supl ort to                          Suppor    o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MF                                                                   MAGORINF                                 DE



Page 14
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
36. As indicated in the CAS, developing the rural sector through rational exploitation of the country's
abundant natural resources and consolidating growth through private sector development are two of the
most important elements of Nicaragua's development agenda. A weak policy framework and a weak
business environment are two of the major impediments to sustainable forestry in Nicaragua and to the
development of the private sector (small and medium enterprises). Options explored with the Government
included: (a) preparing a technical assistance project; and (b) including the activity within the proposed
IDA-financed Second Rural Municipalities Project to improve policy and institutional capability for
natural resource management. This technical assistance project was rejected, given the need for swift
project preparation and execution, and the lack of prioritized action plans and investment programs.
Inclusion of the project in the proposed IDA-financed Second Rural Municipalities or the second
Agricultural Technology Projects was rejected because this arrangement would have severely diluted the
impact of the project on the private sector since they are mainly directed to municipalities. The SIC was
chosen as the preferred alternative because it was the best-suited instrument to address the critical lessons
learned from previous IDA-financed projects of a similar nature; it would enable timely and flexible
execution; it would provide sufficient funds to gather the necessary information and conduct a nation-
wide participatory policy reform process; and because it could set the basis for subsequent forestry
interventions. The Project preparation team concluded that a SIC would be the most appropriate
instrument to address the issues and recommendations listed above. The project is intended to be the first
phase of a longer-term program. It will carefully monitor the use of technical assistance to ensure
institutional strengthening. It is designed in a manner to facilitate flexibility, and it will encourage the
Government to adopt reforms that embody the principles of public-private partnerships, decentralization,
and a strong role for communities and local organizations in environmental policy reform and
management.



Page 15
2. Major rerated projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                    Project              Latest Supervision (Formn 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed in LAGC region
Haiti Forestry and Park Protection      S                 S
Technical Assistance
Argentina Forestry Development          S                 S
Argentina Native Forests and            S                 S
Protected Areas
Mexico Community Forestry               U                HS
Mexico Forestry Development             U                U
(completed)
Uruguay Forest Products Transport       S                 S
Brazil Forest Resources Management
Bank-financed in Nicarcagu
PROTIERRA.                        Implementation
Atlantic Biological Corridor Project    Implementation
(GEF)
Agricultural Technology and Land  Implementation
Management
Other development agencies in
Nicaragua
IDB                        Reactivation of Rural Production   approved 10.97
USAID                      BOLFOR Project                        8/26/93
IP/DO Ratiings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons iearned and reflected in the project design:
37. Lessons have been learned from Bank financing of a variety of related forestry projects executed
throughout Latin America and elsewhere.
38. Bank experience preparing Forestry Plans underscore the importance of widespread and meaningful
participation (the private sector was especially left out, while the communities were included) for the
success of policy reforms. Furthermore, Bank lessons indicate that expanding knowledge of problems
through careful analytical work is a prerequisite for achieving results. The design of this project reflects
both of these lessons.
39. An important source of additional lessons is the Environment Department's recent report,
Environmental Capacity Building: A Review of the World Bank's Portfolio, December 18, 1997 (draft).
Although this Review focused on institutional development components of environmental projects, the
bulk of the recommendations are relevant to this LIC project as it essentially concerns reforming
institutions. The findings and recommendations of the Review relevant to the Project are excerpted
below:
"Findings: Changing and influencing institutions fundamentally involves changing
institutional cultures, the knowledge base, and informal modes of interaction, more than
simiple organizational structures, legal and regulatory frameworks, or office hardware.
Such efforts are inevitably slow and gradual, and they are likely to encounter resistance



Page 16
from established interests. The challenge of strengthening environmental institutions is
further complicated by the cross-sectoral nature of environmental problems, the lack of
knowledge and understanding of the issues which are typically new in the countries, and
the fact that the institutions being strengthened or charged with implementing the projects
are typically very young, often without clearly defined institutional responsibilities.
Recommendations: (a) Governments must have ownership and be fully committed to
projects, involving beneficiaries, interested parties, and the public more generally, so that
public pressure and accountability of institutions are present; (b) technical assistance is
only successful if skills and technical expertise are actually absorbed by beneficiary
institutions; (c) projects should support longer term programs, piloting of initiatives, and
be designed as a series of "building blocks", with the specific objectives being defined as
the project develops, as institutional capacity is gradually built, and as the Bank increases
its knowledge about institutions; (d) the Bank needs to better understand the history and
politics that guide institutional decisions, to build a strong consensus with local
governments and institutions about the importance of the proposed efforts, to ensure the
capacity to absorb the proposed assistance, and to ensure the commitment by
governments; (e) task managers must have the incentives to pursue long term processes
with environmental institutions, with small and slow disbursements, and with not many
obvious and visible changes; (f) it is important to create partnerships and cooperation in
the institutional development process between the beneficiary agency and other agencies
involved with environmental issues, such as universities, industries, NGOs and other
government agencies; (g) the current, positive universal trend of institutional
development towards decentralization, partnerships, and more direct involvement by
local stakeholders must be continued; and (h) since most of the ideal ex ante conditions
will not be met at the beginning, environmental institutional development projects have
to be simple and flexible.
4. Indications of borrower commitnment and ownership:
40. Given the economic importance of forestry and the strong link between forestry, the environment, and
human life (recently showed by Mitch) a sustainable forestry agenda enjoys widespread support within
the Government, the President included. There is long-standing interest on the part of the new
Government for Bank support on sustainable development issues, and several factors indicate borrower
commitment and ownership: (a) strong support from the Minister of Economy, the Minister of
Environment and the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry who signed an agreement to coordinate for the
project and declared the institutional arrangements consistent with their mandates under the new law (see
Annex 12); (c) positive support demonstrated at five project preparation meetings with relevant
Government agencies; (d) a reforestation management workshop was held in July 98 with more than 150
participants (the acta from the workshop will be published by the EU); and (e) the Government is
proceeding with its reform agenda for the modernization of the state and has submitted an indigenous
people (Atlantic Region) land demarcation draft law to the Assembly. Finally, this Project Appraisal
Document has been prepared jointly with staff of MAGFOR.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
41. The value added of Bank support in this project lies both in the coherent IDA and GEF supported
natural resource strategy for Nicaragua (the key element of which are financed through the Rural
Municipalities Project and the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project), in the Bank support for the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, and in the Bank experience with promotion of sustainable natural
resource management, promotion of private sector development, technical assistance for forestry policy
reform within and outside the region, and in its role as an independent broker among competing
government agencies.



Page 17
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic.
42. Emphasis is placed in Nicaragua on the potential for plantation forestry and reforestation, especially
in the Pacific and Central zones. A recent study (Molino, 1998) concludes that there are some 2.5 million
ha, suitable for productive reforestation, which had been cleared for agriculture and livestock and are now
abandoned. ODf these only some 2%, or 55,000 ha have been planted. The study estimated that more than
300,000 ha of these lands are near roads and ports. Nicaragua has tested species such as teak, laurel,
pochote, gmelina and several eucalyptuses which grow rapidly and have established or growing markets.
One private investor has established almost 2,500 ha of eucalyptus for energy and chip production and is
beginning to receive expressions of interest from as far away as Japan for provision of chips. Other
investors, both large and small (farmer's cooperatives) are also taking note of the emerging opportunities.
Emphasis is placed in Nicaragua on the potential for plantation forestry and reforestation, especially in the
Pacific and C'entral zones and to the environmental benefits linked to reforestation. On the processing
side, some ol'the emerging opportunities identified (Molino, 1998) include:
(a)    Potential to save more than US$ 26 million yr'' in petroleum import costs for power
generation by taking full advantage of the existing biomass co-generation scheme being operated
in Le6n by the Ingenio San Antonio. The five-year expansion potential is estimated to allow for
up to a US$80 cost savings by incorporating fallow lands and local landowners and small farmer
cooperatives into the scheme.
(b)    Unutilized sawmill and wood preservation potential for small diameter pine (thinnings) to
substlitute for importation of rebar and small structural and non-structural members, promoting
both employment and pine management as well as improving the anti-seismic characteristics of
small dwellings.
(c)    Development of pine timber standards and classification capacity, and drying capacity to
increase value of domestic and export market.
(d)    Development of wood-based products for (organized) small business-based exportations
to reduce loss of precious woods into the local construction markets and develop outlets for non-
traditional species.
2. Financial.
43. The current project has not been subjected to a financial analysis as its immediate objectives and
outputs would primarily be institutional and human resource-related. From this perspective the important
economic questions are related to the existence of potentials and identification of efficient paths for
realizing potentials.
44. Forestry certification is expected to have financial impact in terms of price premium for certified
wood and access to new specialized markets.
45. Some elements for a financial analysis of the sector follow.
46. In terms of productive forest resources, in 1996 the annual allowable cut from pine and tropical
broadleaf forests was estimated to be 386,000 mi3; of which 70% was officially reported as having been
harvested. Assuming a relation of I m3 of standing volume to 0.5 m3 sawnwood volume, two-thirds of
the timber harvested was exported as sawnwood, earning Nicaragua about US$21million. The allowable
cut is estimated only from those areas with approved forest management plans, which in 1996 covered
about 0.18 million ha. There are an estimated 1.0 to 1.4 million ha of potential production forest which
could be brought under productive management in the medium term; 0.3 million of which are pine
forests. Currently, pine from natural forests accounts for about 70% of the volume and 60% of the export
values. Less than 10% of the potentially productive pine forest are currently under management plans.



Page 18
47. There exists a clear opportunity in the medium term to increase the economic contribution from pine forest.
Concurrently, the pine forests are also located in the highest poverty areas of the country where sustainable
agricultural alternatives are few (Nueva Segovia, RAAN). Technical and environmental constraints to
sustainable management of pine forests are relatively straightforward compared to those in the humid tropical
broadleaf forests. Also, within what are the bulk of the potentially productive humid tropical broadleaf forests,
current conditions -- social (land tenure conflicts), institutional (lack of capacity for management or
enforcement), and physical (poor access, lack of infrastructure) - would make investment in sustainable forestry
at other than the community-level extremely risky.
48. On the other hand, recent financial analysis (Neuschwander and Tapia, 1998) concluded that reforestation is
not an attractive activity in the absence of government subsidies on the order of 50% to 60% due to "little
transparency in the markets and low prices for standing timber" To this can also be added technical failures
(poor germplasm, nursery and plantation management techniques) which reduce potential productivity.
Improved practices could likely increase productivity (and returns) on the order of 15% to 35% in relatively few
years. A priority for government should be first to establish to what extent assisting to resolve market and
technical failures could stimulate reforestation. These would offer a much lower cost alternative than moving
toward direct subsidies for areas where productive reforestation has potential.
49. Fiscal impact: Because project activities would terminate at the end of the project period, their fiscal
impact would arise only from counterpart funding requirements, which are estimated at $790,000 over the
three-year life of the project. These requirements would have a negligible impact on the overall fiscal
situation.
3. Technical:
50. There is limited technical and managerial expertise within MAGFOR and other Government agencies
charged with addressing sustainable forestry issues and private sector development. Therefore, the
project would contract local and foreign expertise to conduct the complex studies and analytical work.
Simultaneously, Government staff would be responsible for participating in all key tasks (e.g. preparing
terms of reference, identifying priority issues, studies, and pilot activities, analyzing the results, and
establishing the Forestry Institute) to ensure that the project strengthens the capacity of MAGFOR and
other relevant Government entities.
4. Institutional:
51. The executing agency for the project would be MAGFOR, which is the agency mandated to
coordinate forestry policy by the newly published legislation on the Reform and Modernization of the
State (June 3, 1998). This agency is perceived by other Government agencies to be legitimate, credible,
and independent in considering the reforms of government institutions. MAGFOR has been the executing
agency for one other IDA financed project (Agriculture and Technology Land Management project).
MAGFOR is experienced in providing overall supervisions to such project.
52. The proposed institutional structure is MAGFOR as implementing agency, a PCU directly dependent
from the Minister, with two programs one for the Government (that will be executed by the PCU) and one
for the private sector (that will be executed by the SFIPO, to be created by MAGFOR under the PCU).
The SFIPO will respond to a Steering Committee for its annual plan and budget (see organigram). The
PCU and SFIPO will be created by the same Ministerial Agreement, and the Steering Committee by an
Inter-Ministerial Resolution.
53. Annex 3. provides details of the institutional and implementation arrangements.
5. Social:
54. The present proposal relies on the extensive and intensive social consultations, and stakeholder
analysis carried out for IDA financed Rural Municipalities project, the GEF-financed Atlantic Biological



Page 19
Corridor project, a series of six consultations carried out with principal stakeholders groups during
preparation, and field visits to meet with potential project participants. The Social Assessment of the
Rural Municipalities Project of the Atlantic Biological Corridor is still valid and relevant and is included
in the project files. An Indigenous People Development Plan has been prepared with interventions to
ensure their participation in the development of the forestry police to be supported by the SIC (see
Annex 6). The project would benefit indigenous people by particularly addressing and reaching
indigenous communities with TA, training, workshops and subprojects. Grant for subprojects will be
given in areas where land titling issues have been resolved. To avoid unduly prejudicing the project
against working in the Atlantic and in view of the lack ofjuridical personality of most of the
communities, during the course of the project implementation the SFIPO would seek assistance of
organizations (e.g. WWF) who have established presence in the Atlantic and ample experience in the
forestry sector to promote the development of subprojects in areas and with communities in RAAN and
RAAS where conditions would allow implementation. All potentially eligible areas have been identified
as have principal stakeholders (see Annex 4). As part of the detailed development of project activities
within both priority areas and thematic programs, more detailed stakeholder analysis will be carried out
within the specific areas of project intervention. The analysis of critical social issues, including
mechanisms to address them acceptable to IDA, would be carried out during the course of
implementation. This would include the mechanisms to ensure indigenous peoples participation in the
development and implementation of the forestry strategy. Consultation will be linked to the launching
and consultation for the ABC project. Furthermore, all subproject activities would include prior
consultations with the municipal councils of the concerned municipalities. No subprojects would be
financed over the objections of the local authorities. Indigenous People specialists will be represented in
SFIPO, the Advisory Panel, the Steering Committee and INAFOR and MIFIC.
6. Environmental:    Environmental Category      [] A   [X] B   [I C
55. The proposed Nicaragua Forestry Project would be implemented with a coherent IDA and GEF-
supported natural resource strategy for Nicaragua, the key elements of which are (and will be) financed
through the Rural Municipalities Project and the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project. The project is likely
to be environmentally highly beneficial. By promoting sustainable natural forest management, the project
is expected to increase the perceived value of keeping lands under forest, rather than converting them to
agriculture or pasture. Deforestation, advance of the agriculture frontiers, and forest burning are
continuing in Nicaragua. In particular, the project would initiate forest certification activities in
Nicaragua, contributing in this way to the goals of the newly established World Bank-WWF Alliance for
Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use. The project would primarily provide technical assistance and
institutional strengthening to promote the management of native forest and to reforest cleared areas. From
an environmental standpoint sustainable natural forest management systems, promoted by the project, are
preferable (in terms of biodiversity and soil and water conservation) to any agricultural or pasture
systems. The project would promote the management of non-timber forest products (NTFP), whose
development would have relatively minor environmental impacts, while providing an economic incentive
to maintain tlhe natural forest. Environmental expertise (forest ecology and biodiversity) will be
represented in SFIPO, in the International Advisory Panel, and in the Steering Committee. The forest
information system will include relevant data on how specific forestry practices can be modified to
accommodate biodiversity conservation and other environmental concerns.
56. Subprojects. In absence of environmental safeguards, intensified management of natural forest can
adversely affect biodiversity. Also, poorly managed logging practices can increase erosion and
degradation of waterways. In order to minimize these issues subproject financing will include obligatory
environmental analysis and will comply with the same rules and guidelines established for subproject
scoping and approval developed for the IDA-financed Rural Municipalities Project. The process for
environmental review of sub-projects is discussed in the project's Environmental Analysis (EA) report
"Sistema de Procedimientos Ambientales para la Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal" . The environmental
review of subprojects will be carried out by SFIPO for all subprojects, and by SFIPO and MARENA for
projects greater than US$ 75,000. In particular the subprojects will be analyzed in terms of how they
might affect biodiversity (degradation of habitat), soil (soil erosion) and water (degradation of streams)



Page 20
and livelihood of indigenous peoples, and preventive measures will be required. The projects will have to
be consistent with the Municipal Environment and Land Use Plan . The subprojects will be classified as
1) category I - subproject without negative environmental impact; does not require EA; category II) -
subprojects with limited environmental impact; requires an EA; category III) - requires a full
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and environmental management plan to be approved by
MARENA.
57. The following measures would also be taken to reduce risks and avoid or mitigate any potential
negative impact: 1) subprojects with environmental risk would include a TA plan; 2) subprojects would
include environmental education programs; 3) annual review of the subprojects would include an
environmental audit. The requirements for further criteria for environmental approval of any potentially
sensitive subprojects will be assessed as part of project implementation and in accordance with relevant
Bank environmental guidelines. Subprojects promoting non-timber forest product utilization will not
promote any unsustainable exploitation, particularly of species that are legally protected or threatened.
7. Participatory approach.
58. The social learning and participatory approach of the project would ensure the participation of a wide
range of members of the private sector, representatives of NGOs, women and local indigenous people
communities, and central and provincial-level Government officials who are active in management of
natural resources and the environment. The pilot activities would be designed specifically to ensure
participation from civil society. A participatory methodology would be developed and employed as the
key mechanism to identify policy reforms. The eventual adoption of the legal, fiscal, and institutional
reforms identified by the project would necessitate the involvement of the key executive and legislative
political leaders of the country. Consultations will be linked to the launching and consultations of the
ABC project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
59. Recognizing the importance of incorporating learning into the project as it advances, special emphasis
would be given to monitoring and evaluation of project activities (e.g., studies, social assessments, pilot
activities) in order to ensure the incorporation of important lessons into the work of the Forestry Institute.
The purpose of the project would be to create the basis for a sustainable management framework, and
further investments would depend upon Government commitment to implement and maintain this
framework. In addition, this project would enhance the Government's capacity to manage forestry
planning and coordinate forestry management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Increasing private and communal investments in forestry  H  Project is kept small and utilized as a short term leaming
activities may not result in improved management of        instrument from which to better understand critical
forestry resources or contribute significantly to          interventions required to achieve objectives; key long
achieving the social, environmental and economic           tenm output of project is development of a National
conditions required to sustain.                            Forestry Investment Program based on non-government
stakeholders' informed participation.
GON commitment to improved forestry management     M       Project works directly to assist GON in defining the new
may not remain strong and adequate political will not      institutionality for forestry under modemization of the
exist to support consensus building and enhanced roles     state and would place very strong emphasis on the
of non-government stakeholders in forestry sector.         organization and creation  of fora within which
government would engage civil society in definition of



Page 21
future directions for the forestry sector.
Conflicts among principal stakeholders may preclude       M        Build   upon   consensus/negotiation   mechanisms
achievement of reasonable consensus on a program of                established by non-govemment stakeholders during the
priority actions ancl investments.                                 development of the (pending) Forestry Law; include
orientation and training seminars for key stakeholder
groups  (esp.  marginalized   groups)  and  their
representatives to allow them to develop informed
opinions prior to their participation in multi-stakeholder
fora
Conflicts over resources are bringing back into active    S        The project will attempt to work with communities that
fighting some armed groups.                                        have the titles to their land, including groups of ex-
combatants that have titles to land and need technical
assistance to manage their forest. A post-conflict expert
will be part of the core team in every supervision
mission.
Annex 1, cell "froim Components to Outputs"
The project may not be managed in an effective and        H        Establish PCU (and SFIPO) within MAGFOR with clear
timely manner because of the limited capacity of                   TORs, hire proven Project Coordinator, and other
MAGFOR                                                             technical experts. Build on existing institutions and
activities wherever appropriate.
Non-forestry  sector policies (i.e., agricultural, land   H        All institutions and sectors (including the private) would
tenure, fiscal) could present insurmountable obstacles to          participate in the identification of needs for policy reform
forestry sector development.                                       and would do so in organized fora where stakeholder
interests would be more transparent, increasing the
likelihood of wide consensus and adoption of reforms.
Furthermore, public participation in the leaming process
is likely to lead to greater environmental awareness and
____________________________________________      better compliance.
Background studies would not effectively contribute to    M        Draft TORs for key studies would be finalized prior to
new strategy, reforrns or better practice.                         effectiveness, studies would be monitored, a monitoring
and evaluation system would be put in place, and clear
mechanisms for incorporating results into the program
____________________________________________                      would   be  established.
Pilot activities would not effectively contribute to      M        Pilot activities would be selected according to
strategy, reforms or better practice.                              predetermined criteria and standard procedures detailed
in Regulations. The pilot activities will be review by the
Intemational Council of Expert to make sure that they
contribute to better practice.
Overall Risk Rating                                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
60. Forestry is perennially a conflictive sector, especially productive aspects having to do with harvesting
of natural forests in unclear land tenure rights. During the implementation of the project the potential for
such controversies will be managed through three key elements: (1) harvesting within humid tropical
forests would be contemplated only in land where there is no conflict over land ( poor communities and
cooperatives on small-scale activities within the Rio San Juan, and some communities in RAAN); (2) one
of the main elements of the project is to create a broad, national dialogue on needed actions to stimulate
non-government stakeholder sustainable forestry management; the outputs from these dialogues will
guide project intervention; and (3) project interventions would be transparent, all investments and
activities would be posted both on the internet as well as made available to any interested parties in the
local languages (Spanish and indigenous people languages).
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a)    PCU, SFIPO and Steering Committee should have been established, under TOR acceptable to
IDA, and MAGFOR shall have appointed a director of the PCU, and the sub-director and at least
one technical experts of SFIPO;
b)    MAGFOR shall have adopted an Operations Manual acceptable to IDA for all project activities
other than the pilot subprojects.
c)    A Financial Management System satisfactory to IDA shall have been adopted by MAGFOR for
the administrative, financing, and accounting control of the project. The following actions should
have been completed: hiring accountant, disbursement and procurement officers; preparation of a
manual of accounting procedures;
2. Other dated covenants and disbursement conditions:
a) No disbursements will be made against subprojects until MAGFOR has adopted the Subprojects
Manual, acceptable to IDA, to govern the selection, implementation and monitoring of the
subprojects.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. (Draft TORs for major technical assistance will be prepared by effectiveness.)
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):



Page 23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The proposed Nicaragua Forestry Project, in addition to complying with all applicable Bank
policies, would be implemented within a coherent IDA and GEF-supported natural resource
strategy for Nicaragua; the key elements of which are financed through the Rural Municipalities
Project (Credit No.2918-NI) and the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project (Project Identification
No.: NI-GE-41790
Task Team Leader/TasI  anager: Paola Agostini and Luis Constantino
Seor Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Page 24
Annex 1
Republic of Nicaragua: Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office
Project Design Summary
NARRATIVE SUNIMARY          KEY PERFORMANCE            MONITORING AND       CRITICAL AsstTUMiPTIONs
X_______ _  INDICATORS          EVALIIATION
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Develop the rural sector,    Significant increase in   Project-sponsored       Increasing private and
consolidate growth for private   private and communal  assessments             communal investments in
sector development, and     investments in sustainable                         rural activities will result
strengthen environmental    rural development                                  in improved management
protection                                                                     of natural resources and
contribute significantly to
achieving the social,
environmental and
economic conditions
required to sustain them.
Long Term Development       (i) Specific investments   Reports from project    (APL objective to Goal)
Objective:                  attracted that contribute to    consultations and  Conflicts between
Improve forestry management   sustainable economic     workshops               forestry and non-forestry
and private sector development  development and improved   Project monitoring and    sector policies (i.e.,
forest resource management.  evaluation and progress   agricultural, land tenure,
(ii) Substantial consensus  reports.              fiscal, and other
reached by stakeholders on                        economic development)
forestry development                              can be
strategies and policies.                          resolved/minimized such
that they do not present
insurmountable obstacles
to forestry sector
development.
Project Development         (i) Policies & strategies for   (i) Official MAGFOR  (Development Objective
Objective:                  forestry sector developed &    strategy and policy  to Global Objective)
Improve local capacity (private  agreed with principal sector   documents;     GON commitment to
and public) and develop     stakeholders by year 3.    documentation of        improved forestry
altematives to address long  (ii) SFIPO fully functioning   consultations with  management remains
term forestry issues in     by year one and providing    principal stakeholders  strong and the political
Nicaragua.                  demand-driven services to   (ii) Project progress  consensus among the
non-govemment forestry    reports and monitoring &   stakeholders is
stakeholders.             evaluation              maintained and the peace
(iii) Subprojects executed,                       process holds.
results evaluated and
integrated into long term
forestry planning
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Development
i) Increased access to "know  (i) Stakeholders' requests for  Project progress reports;   Objective)
how", best practices, applicable  forest sector infommation,  periodic consultations  Active participation by
technology, and financial   technology, markets,       with stakeholders and   GON agencies, private
resources                   training, and financing;   potential financiers;   sector/civil society in
ii) Improved effective non-  Forestry certification    Project monitoring and  pilot activities and
government stakeholder      standards developed and    evaluation; stakeholder    program development.
participation in sector policy  disseminated.          surveys.
and strategic decision-making.   Interest expressed by  Intemational Forestry  Conflicts among principal
iii) Improved public sector  financiers in investing in  Advisory Panel reports.   stakeholders will not
support for the development of  forestry projects                              preclude achievement of
private and communal forestry  (ii) Jointly developed                          reasonable consensus on
activities.                 policies & strategies for                          policies and strategies in
forestry sector.                                  priority areas.
(iii) Subprojects completed,
results evaluated and
integrated into public sector



Page 25
NARRATIVE SUMMARY           KEY PERFORMANCE            MONITORING AND       CRITICAL ASSuMPTIONS
_______  _________        INDICATORS               EVALUATION
strategy for forestry
development.
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs:                    Project progress reports;   (Components to Outputs)
components:                 (i) Total: US$ 2.7 m.      results of monitoring and
(i) Technical Assistance to  1. Establishment &        evaluation; SFIPO       SFIPO can be established
Private and Communal Sector   operation of SFIPO       information system;     and maintained with top
Forestry                    2. Comprehensive Forestry   Intemational Forestry  quality professional staff.
Information System        Advisory Panel reports;
3. SFIPO Outreach Program   technical and financial  SFIPO is allowed
3a. Marketing &          audits; Client surveys;    sufficient flexibility to
Commercialization        consultation records.   respond to client
3b. Capacity Building For                        demands.
Sustainable Forestry
4. Forestry Certification
Development
5. Intemational Forestry
Advisory Panel
(ii) Technical Assistance to  (ii) Total: US$ 1.3 m.                           New MAGFOR Forestry
Public Sector Forestry       1. Assistance to the                              Institute is not
MAG FOR Forestry Institute                        immediately
- MIFIC                                           overwhelmed by an
la. Capacity building and                        overly broad mandate and
studies for forestry policy                     legal responsibilities.
development, norms and
procedures.
lb. Analysis of
opportunities, participation
and consultation for
strategic planning.
2. Assistance to CONADES
for Carbon Sequestration
Mechanisms Office For
Forestry-Activities
(iii) Pilot Subprojects
(iii) Total: US$ 10.0 m
1. Private/Communal
Forestry Initiative
Subprojects
2. Technology Introduction
and Verification Subprojects
(iv) Project Administration
(iv) Total: US$ 0.7 m
1. Project Coordination
Office
2. Financial audits,
evaluation missions, final
review.






Page 27
Project Timetable and Outputs
YEAR I             |             YEAR2                             YEAR3                              YEAR4
____________________           Project Component I: Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry
1. Establishment & operation  SFIPO established and fully staffed   Specifc investments attractedequal  SFIPO converted from a project-based  SFIPO generating at least 50% of its
of SFIPO                   with professional personnel; service  to at least 25% of SFIPO annual    office to a legal entity.    total budget; proposal for 3 year
provision and outreach activities  operating cost.                                                    continuation of SFIPO services
initiated; register of clients and  SFIPO generating at least 25% of its                              developed with a minimum 50% co-
solicited services and service   annual operations budget; services                                   financing commitments from non-
provided functioning; successful  and client register demonstrate                                     govemment sources.
facilitation of at least one joint  minimum 200% increase over year 1;
venture and one marketing        client survey completed and SFIPO
agreement.                       action plan to upgrade/adjust services
under execution of at least three more
joint ventura and two more marketing
agreement.
2. Comprehensive Forestry   Information system designed.     Annual user survey and user profiles  Increased access of public to know-
Information System                                           completed.                       how, best practices, applicable
Operation                                                                                     technology.
3. Forestry Certification  Preliminary national criteria     Two nationals certified by FSC as    Two forest management and forest
Development                developed for broadleaf and pine  timber certifiers.               plantations schemes certified.
natural and submitted to FSC for
comment.
Project Co ponent 11: Technical Assistance to Public Sector Forestry
1. Assistance to the       Organizational design for Forestry    Global regional policies and  Proposal for Phase 11 private sector
MAGFOR Forestry Institute  Institute completed and approved;    strategies agreed between Institute    forestry program developed in
within three months of the date of    and private sector stakeholders;  participatory way (APC).
effectiveness, MAGFOR shall have
prepared a detailed plan, acceptable
to IDA, describing the participatory
process to be employed to develop
the policy reforms and strengthen the
Forestry Institute.
2. Assistance to MIFIC     Concession policy developed.      Participation of MIFIC in the design   Concession instruments in place to
of the forestry strategy.        support productive and conservation
uses of forests or forest by groups,
communities, local govemments, or
private businesses.



Page 28
YEAR]                              YEAR2                              YEAR3                                YEAR4
3. Assistance to CONADES.  Development of national priorities    Dissemination of national priorities   Intemational promotion of Forestry-
and procedures for forestry-related    and procedures for forestry-related    related Clean Development projects.
Clean Development projects.        Clean Development.
Project Components Pilot Subproects
1. Subprojects              5 projects initiated               10 projects initiated (15 total)   Subprojects completed, results
evaluated, and integrated into public
sector strategy for forestry
development (APC).
10 projects initiated (25 total)



Page 29
Annex 2
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
Project Description
Project Component 1. Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry - Total
cost US$ 2. 7 million (of which IDA financing is US$ 2.2 million).
I. The short-term objective of this component is to establish the capacity and mechanisms whereby
funds could be mobilized, entrepreneurial spirit encouraged and the required expertise brought to bear
to allow the realization of opportunities for more effective, productive and improved management of
forest and land resources in Nicaragua. This would be achieved through initiating a range of practical
activities in support of the demands of those non-governmental forestry stakeholders demonstrably
involved in forestry-related activities. The longer-term objectives of this component are to provide
the experience, knowledge, and organizational and institutional basis on which a scaled-up forestry
program could be based. The component would focus on achieving certain key outputs:
*  establishment of a service provision mechanism that responds to the needs of private and
comrmunall forestry stakeholders for improved access to relevant sector information, to
commercialization and marketing opportunities, to relevant technologies, and to needed capital.
*  development of an information system and network which supports the needs of private and
communal forestry stakeholders for improved access to relevant sector information and which
facilitates the expansion of non-government investments in the sector.
*  implementation of a first phase outreach and promotion program for: (i) the transfer and
introduction of relevant technologies and best practices for improved productive resource
management and (ii) for marketing and commercialization of forestry-related products in support
of mrarket diversification, expansion, transparency and provision.of incentives for improved
resource management.
*  development of a context and of a practical definition of 'environmentally sound forestry
practices' under Nicaraguan conditions, through supporting the development of forest
certiification as a mean to achieve improved forestry management and of reaching new markets.
*  generation of knowledge and experience on which to base future promotion and facilitation of: (i)
enviironmentally acceptable private investments in productive forestry, (ii) the integration of small
holders into the productive process through provision of appropriate services and
economic/financial incentives; and (iii) private activities through key public investments.
2. In order ltO achieve these key outputs the component would finance technical assistance, training,
workshops, studies, office equipment and supplies, vehicles, and operational expenses. The specific
activities for which these would be financed are:
Establishment and Operation of Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office
3. The project would finance the establishment and operation of a technical office whose mission would
be to provide services to private and communal forest sector stakeholders. Initially, the office
(Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office or 'SFIPO') would be constituted by Ministerial
Resolution directly under the Project Coordination Unit and its actions and work program would be
overseen by an ad hoc Steering Committee, to be established by the MAGFOR, which represented
both government and non-government stakeholder interests. In addition, the development and
execution of the SFIPO's work program would be guided by an International Forestry Advisory
Panel, to be established for this purpose by the project. The medium-term goal would be for the
SFIPO to evolve into an autonomous or semi-autonomous and self-financing entity capable of



Page 30
responding to the needs of its clients and of facilitating government's promotion of productive
forestry.
4. The SFIPO's terms of reference would be to mobilize expertise and funds, provide up-to-date internal
and external information on the sector, establish local, regional and international connections to
investors and to sources of technology. The SFIPO's main task would thus be to manage
information: facilitating access information (e.g., through the internet), establishing contacts and
providing services to current and potential investors, national and international institutions and the
government. Within the three-year project timeframe, it is expected to attract investments and foment
development activities. It should also become a significant technical force in the development and
preparation of sector investment strategies and plans. In the medium term, the Government m-ight no
longer need to maintain this office which action could be undertaken by private association like the
Import-Export Center (or 'CEI' -- a non-profit entity, with links to government through MIFIC,
which facilitates access to information and capital for agricultural investments) and UNICAFE (an
autonomous technical assistance entity financed by and which responds to coffee producers).
5. The SFIPO's main areas of action would include:
*  Promotion of private investments. The SFIPO would establish contacts with potential investors
around the world, facilitating access to and promoting development opportunities, providing
information relevant to the investor, organizing promotional seminars and promotional sessions
with investors and financial institutions.
*  Integration of smallholders into the productive process by developing financial and
economic incentives. The SFIPO would assist to define the types of custom tailored financing
and incentives required to meet the specific needs of smallholders for starting a productive use of
their available lands for producing fuel and small construction woods either for their own supply
or as cash crop for cottage industries, utility companies and sugar mills.
*  Transfer and introduction of appropriate technologies and best practices. The SFIPO has to
ensure that forestry and forest industries have knowledge of and access to up-to-date
technologies. The SFIPO would provide the links to research institutes, innovative corporations,
etc. Also, it would work to influence government to develop practical, economically justified and
efficient incentives and support systems to introduce new technologies crucial for the increase of
productivity and poverty alleviation.
*  Promotion of Forest Certification as a mean to achieve improved forestry management and
reaching new markets . The SFIPO would promote forest certification as a tool to provide
market incentive for improved forest management. Certification is one of the most rapidly
developing "soft policy tools" (i.e. non-regulatory mechanism) which can be used to help forest
sector move into line with the principle of sustainable development, playing a complementary
role to government policy. SFIPO would participate (but not execute, see below) in the process
of developing national standards for certification and the training of certifiers; it would also
manage a small matching grant fund which would be used to facilitate some initial experience
with actual certification of Nicaraguan enterprises.
6. The main instruments which the SFIPO would directly manage in order to exercises leadership in
these areas would be: (i) the development and operation of a comprehensive forestry information
system; and (ii) the implementation of a private and communal sector outreach program. These are
described below.
Development of a Comprehensive Forestry Information System
7. The SFIPO would set-up and operate a comprehensive information system on forestry in Nicaragua.
The system would provide access to relevant local and foreign information, knowledge, practices,
norms, policies, etc.. The system would be set up as a network and would link with existing
databases (e.g., the CEI's database of local cost's, policies, laws, etc. to facilitate development of



Page 31
feasibility studies and the social and technical information centers that WWF is assisting to develop).
The system would rely heavily on the Internet to facilitate direct dialogue with leading specialists of
private corporations, research institutions and international entities. The system would be established
followling consultations with key stakeholders on information, content, and accessibility. During year
3 of the project, the feasibility of the development of cost-recovery mechanisms would be explored.
Private and Communal Sector Outreach Program
8. In consultation with key stakeholders, the SFIPO would design and implement a technical outreach
and promotion program to begin the processes relevant to promoting and facilitating private
investments, better integrating smallholders into productive process, transferring and introducing
appropriate technologies and best practices, and promoting/facilitating Forest Certification. The
program would have two distinct elements:
*  Marketing and Commercialization Outreach  to assist the private sector to make links with
internal and external markets, thus creating incentives for investment and development of forest
product (timber and non-timber) based activities and enhanced management. The program would
include such activities as a participatory strategy development; study and business development
trips; marketing and commercialization studies; short courses and seminars; two annual Forestry
Trade fairs; promotion and technical assistance for development ofjoint ventures.
*  Capacity Building for Sustainable Forestry for the transfer and introduction of appropriate
technologies and best practices. This activity would include technical training for key
stakeholders (including short technical courses, seminars, study tours, etc.) and other technical
assiistance (e.g., bringing in expertise in sustainable forestry management and other technical
areas) to strengthen capacity in the private sector (primarily, though government would also be a
client). The medium-term vision of these activities would be to develop the human resources
required for the future forestry management programs to be established as a result of expected
outcomes.
Forestry Certification
9. In July Df 1997 a working group was established in Nicaragua to promote the development of
voluntary Forestry Certification as an alternative to improve the management of forestry resources
and access to (incipient, but developing) green markets. The working group comprises persons from
9 entities representing social (CEPAD, CEDAPRODE), environmental (NICAMBIENTAL, Project
BOSAWAS, Young Environmentalists) and economic (Camara Forestal, AFONIC, and CICAFOC)
interests. Currently WWF is assisting the group through the Forestry Stewardship Council's
Nicaraguan associate 'NICAMBIENTAL'; providing financing for development of draft national
standards (expected in late 1998). The project, through contracting arrangements handled by the
PCU, would assist and accelerate ongoing efforts through support for: (i) ongoing refinement of
standards for natural forest management (conifers and humid tropical forest), plantations, and
processing; (ii) promotion of certification and dissemination of standards; and (iii) training of national
certifiers. In addition, the SFIPO would utilize its programs to compliment promotion efforts and it
would also manage a small matching grant fund that would be used to facilitate some initial
experiences with actual certification of Nicaraguan enterprises. In this fashion, the project would also
contribute to the goals set by the newly established World Bank-WWF Alliance for Forest
Conservation and Sustainable Use certification.
International Forestry Advisory Panel.
10. In order to ensure a proper orientation for the SFIPO and the project, and to assist GON to develop a more
clear ancl strategic vision of the forestry sector's potential within a sustainable development context, the



Page 32
project would finance the services and related communications and travel costs of intemational consultants
to serve as members of an Advisory Panel. The Panel would comprise at least three world-class experts on
forestry sector development and sustainable management. They would also have at their disposal a small
technical assistance budget, allowing them to bring in additional expertise as required; one priority area of
which would be for indigenous forestry issues. The Panel would meet at least twice in project year one, and
at least once a year thereafter. The assistance could be provided directly, in a very flexible way and custom
tailored to the needs. More importantly, the Panel members would remain in permanent contact with the
project and SFIPO through the Internet to answer questions or provide contacts to other sources of
expertise. In addition, the Panel's recommendations would be on financing of subprojects or other technical
issues (requested as specified in the Operational Manual).
Project Component II. Public Sector Forestry Assistance - Total Cost US$1.3 million (of
which IDA financing is US$ 1.1 million).
11. This component would provide support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock under its new
legal mandate as the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MAGFOR) to strengthen the
'Institute of Forestry'. It will also provide technical assistance to MIFIC in designing a concession
policy for state-owned lands. In addition, the component would provide technical assistance to
CONADES, on the development of Nicaragua's potential to participate in the Clean Development
Mechanism accords developed in Kyoto. For the Clean Development Mechanisms, the project would
provide technical assistance to those activities relevant to the forestry sector. The project would
finance technical assistance, training, studies, workshops, public consultations, and publications in
order to:
*  Assist the MAGFOR and Institute of Forestry to: (i) create internal capacity for the development
of forestry policy, norms, and procedures; (ii) carry out priority studies and analysis in order to
develop specific forestry policy, norms, and procedures; and (iii) to implement a participatory
process to build consensus and gamer strong support around the development of government's
specific policies and strategic frameworks for private and communal sector forestry development
in priority regions. One expected outcome from these activities would be the development of a
forestry strategy which includes specific commitments from the principal nongovernmental
forestry sector stakeholders on their roles and contributions to the forestry sector development
process (this might be developed in an APC). A secondary benefit of the process would be
expected in terms of a significantly enhanced situation as regards participation, communication
and conflict management between distinct interests in the involved regions.
*  Assist MIFIC to: (i) review the Natural Resource Law; and (ii) develop the rules and regulations
for forestry concessions in public land given the new functions established by the Law of
Modernization of the State for the Ministry of Economy. The financing will be utilized for studies
and technical assistance.
*  Assist CONADES in the development of the enabling national policy framework, and
subsequently the norms and procedures to implement the policy, for the inclusion of forestry
activities within the evolving carbon sequestration and reforestation activities. The financing
would be utilized for technical assistance, studies, workshops for coordination and priority
setting, representation in international meetings, and promotion of forestry offsets in Nicaragua.
Project Component 111. Structured Learning Subprojects - Total Cost USS 0.0 million (of which IDAfinancing
is USS 5.0 million).
12. The objective of this component would be to develop and test innovative activities and new
mechanisms for finding solutions to priority private and communal forestry sector problems,
including: innovative models for reforestation and land rehabilitation, forestry resource management
(e.g., certification, ecolabeling of mixed forest/perennial crops, vertical integration of smallholders
and wood-based microenterprises); increasing decentralization of forestry functions, such as forest



Page 33
fire protection; enhancing product quality and increasing management, production and marketing
efficiency of forestry-based microenterprises; development of public-private sector partnerships; and
creative financing mechanisms for improved forestry utilization and management. To achieve this
objective the project would finance, on a cost-sharing basis (cash and in-kind), a program of grants to
private sector, non-governmental organizations and institutions, communities and municipalities to
carry out the activities (Pilot Subprojects) which also included specific actions for refinement of
proposals and subsequent monitoring, evaluating, and disseminating the results of implementation.
The learning generated through these initiatives would be expected to inform the development of
government's policies and strategic frameworks for private and communal sector forestry and serve
as a basis for design of incentive mechanisms to promote forestry investment.
13. The grants would finance subprojects of two types: (i) private and communal sector forestry
initiatives and (ii) technology introduction and verification initiatives. These would not be mutually
exclusiive categories, any one project might have elements of both types. Subprojects financing
would be provided as grants, awarded on a competitive, cost-sharing basis to local governments and
commtnities (with legal status) or associations, private sector and non-government entities with
demonstrable, interest in forestry resources utilization and management.
0  Private and communal sector forestry initiatives within which eligible subprojects would be those that
had the potential to be replicated programmatically on scales significant to departmental or regional
forestryi resource management and its forestry-products based economy. The experiences to be
gained through the financing of these initiatives would assist GON to better refine the role of
government in the facilitation and promotion of forestry investments, i.e. to "test the market" prior to
committing to larger, risky, or potentially, distorting schemes. The types of subprojects expected
would include: sustainable forestry at the agricultural frontier; planning and development of tropical
broadleaf forest resources; planning and development of pine forest resources; multiple-use
reforesitation; secondary forest management; incorporation of timber, non-timber, and fruit species for
shade coffee plantations. The types of activities included under the subprojects would be such things
as: achiieving eligibility for certification of forestry and forestry products; forest fire management and
protectlion; natural forest management; tree nurserying; planting and management of trees either in
pure or mixed stands, or individually as part of agroforestry or silvopastoral systems; non-timber
forest product management and utilization; shade coffee plantation management; secondary forest
management and reforestation for fuelwood production; vertical integration of smallholder producers
and wood-based microenterprises; and enhancing forest enterprise business management and
marketing and commercialization capacity. Other activities or costs eligible for grant financing would
include: technical assistance for subproject formulation; direct costs for grant administration; training
and technical assistance; small purchases of goods and equipment justified for technology
introduction and training purposes or for public good content (e.g., fire fighting tools); small works
and infrastructure justified for public good content (e.g., fire watch towers and fire ponds, control
posts, cooperative solar wood dryers); maintenance, operational and logistical costs. Each subproject
will monitor, evaluate and disseminate results, including optional assistance to the local government
to hold annual municipal workshops for local forestry sector coordination.
Technology introduction and verification initiatives within which eligible subprojects would be
those with the potential to provide results in the short term to the resolution of key technical
constraints to the financially-viable management of forestry resource by non-government
stakeholders and to the forestry-products based economy and with potential to be disseminated on
scales significant to the departmental or regional levels. Preliminary areas of interest have been
identified as: (i) reforestation improvement -- planting stock (clones, seeds, provenance's),
planting stock improvement, seed source certification, nursery improvement (root trainers,
planting media), plantation establishment, native species; (ii) natural forest management
improvement - simplified management planning for smallholders, low-impact harvesting of
wood and non-wood products, improved methodologies and practices for stand inventories,
silvicultural techniques and protection against fire and pathogens and; (iii) processing and product
improvement -- reduction of waste and environmental damage associated with processing of



Page 34
forest products; improving quality and value-added of forest product output; use of non wood
forest products. Activities eligible for grant financing would include: TA for subproject
formulation; direct costs for grant administration; training and technical assistance; salaries of
field assistants; goods, equipment, and consumables required for research and analytical
purposes; small works.and infrastructure directly related to the financed research (e.g., fencing of
research plots, protected storage sheds, demonstration-scale models for technology verification);
monitoring and analysis; results dissemination; and maintenance, operational and logistical costs.
14. The steps to be taken by the project for the implementation of this component would include:
* Preparation of the Operational Manual: The SFIPO, with the assistance of the International
Forestry Advisory Panel, would finalize the Subprojects Manual for the pilot activities program.
These regulations would describe the processes for selection, approval and administration of
activities, the eligibility criteria, the monitoring system and evaluation criteria, and the process for
disseminating the results. The project Steering Committee would review and approve the
Operational Manual and Subprojects Manual, which would subsequently be submitted to IDA for
its "no-objection". An Operational Manual would be prepared and adopted by MAGFOR before
the project becomes effective.
*  Subproject Promotion and Selection: The SFIPO would be responsible to promote the
development of subproject proposals by eligible entities and groups. Proposals would be
submitted to the SFIPO. The SFIPO would reject non-eligible proposals, and review and
competitively rank eligible proposals based on selection criteria detailed in the Subprojects
Manual and on technical merit. Eligible subprojects, ranked and with the SFIPO's
recommendations (and the Advisory Council's if requested by SFIPO) would be submitted to the
project Steering Committee for final selection on general merits. Subsequently all selected
proposals would be submitted to IDA for a 'no-objection'. In the case of "technology
introduction and verification initiative" proposals would be submitted to the International
Forestry Advisory Council before sending them to IDA for no-objection.
*  Selection Criteria would include: potential for programmatic replication on scales significant to
departmental or regional forestry resource management and its forestry-products based economy;
response to key constraints recognized as both relevant and of priority by concerned stakeholder
groups; acceptability to local stakeholders; cost-effectiveness as measured by participant versus
project co-financing; potential for financial sustainability; and existence of capacity to execute the
proposal. Eligible organizations would include the corporations, cooperatives and associations,
NGOs and other non-government entities in cooperation with pre-defined stakeholder groups,
municipal governments and communities and any combinations of these.
*  Subproject Formulation: Formulation would be the responsibility of the entity or entities
proposing the subproject. On the basis of an application form and a draft proposal document
subproject selection would be made. In the case of subprojects that would require further
preparation or refinement prior to implementation, the proposal could request financing for this
activity within the overall financing ceiling.
*  Financing:  Grants would be limited to a maximum of US$150,000 (unless otherwise approved
by IDA up to US$300,000), and individual pilot activities would have to be completed within 24
months. Grant recipients would be required to contribute at least 50% of the total subproject cost.
The beneficiaries' contribution could be in cash or in kind in the amounts specified by category in
the Subprojects Manual. It should be noted that the 50% requirement would pose no barrier to
the participation of poor stakeholders, as activities such as reforestation have labor costs on the
order of 60%. IDA would finance 100% (net of taxes) of the grants provided.
*  Supervision of the individual subprojects would be the responsibility of the SFIPO.
*  Monitoring and Evaluation: Each grant would have associated incremental financing for
monitoring and evaluation, not to exceed 10% of the total grant. Monitoring and evaluation
would be contracted to entities with the capacity to carry out the required activities (e.g.,
Universities, NGOs, private consulting firms, existing projects, etc.), which in some cases could
also be the subproject executor. The PCU would be responsible for the contracting of the



Page 35
monitoring and evaluation. The SFIPO and the contractor, with assistance from the International
Forestry Advisory Panel, would establish assessment indicators and criteria for the subprojects.
Outputs from the M&E would be turned over to the SFIPO and would contribute to their
supervision efforts. Annual independent financial and technical audits of subprojects would be
arranged by the PCU and financed from the PCU budget.
Diissemination of Learning From Pilot Subprojects Program: Each grant would include
incremental financing (not to exceed 5% of the total grant) for the grantee (or, where required,
contracted technical assistance) to document and disseminate information on the outcomes of
their pilot activities program. SFIPO would assist to ensure the quality of the documentation and
would make these results available nationally.
Project Comnponent IV Project Administration - Total Cost US$ 1.0 million (of wiicl IDA fnancing is USS0.7
million)
15. This component would finance the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The PCU would have overall responsibility for
projecit administration, coordination between MAGFOR and other relevant government institutions
(MARENA, MIFIC, MHCP), procurement and disbursement, and meeting the Project's reporting
requirements to IDA. A small office consisting of a Project Coordinator, Procurement and
Disbursement officers, accountant, secretary, and other support staff (i.e., driver, cleaner) would be
financed along with works for office rehabilitation, required office equipment, vehicle, and
operational budget (other personnel will be added as needed). Financing would also be provided
througjh this component for the meetings of the Project Steering Committee, annual independent
financial and technical audits, and for internal evaluation missions for mid-term and final reviews.



Page 36
Annex 3
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementing Agency.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MAGFOR) will be the implementing agency.
INAFOR, MIFIC and CONADES will receive technical assistance from MAGFOR. MAGFOR is the
agency mandated to coordinate forestry policy by the newly enacted legislation on the Reform and
Modernization of the State (effective September, 1998). This agency is perceived by other Government
agencies to be legitimate, credible, and independent in considering the reforms of government institutions.
MAGFOR has been the executing agency for one other IDA project (Agriculture and Technology Land
Management project). MAGFOR is experienced in providing overall supervisions to such project.
Project Coordination.
The project will be carried out by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will report to the Minister
of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The PCU will be responsible for two programs: one for the
Government (that will be executed by the PCU), and one for the private sector (that will be executed by
the SFIPO, to be created by the MAGFOR under the PCU). The PCU will respond to a Coordination
Committee composed of the Minister of MAGFOR, one Advisor, INAFOR, the Policy Unit and the PCU
for its annual plan. The SFIPO will respond to a Steering Committee for its annual plan and budget (see
organigram). The Steering Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forestry, and will include the Minister of Environment, the Minister of Economy, representatives of the
private sector and the civic society (including indigenous people representatives). The Coordinator of the
PCU will be the Secretary of the Steering Committee. A representative of MHCP will be attending the
meetings as well. The PCU and the SFIPO will be created by the same Ministerial Resolution and the
Steering Committee by an Inter-Ministerial Resolution.
Accounting, Financial reporting, and auditing arrangements
The PCU will have responsibilities for procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting. The PCU
will utilize financial management procedures that have been recommended by IDA. Prior to negotiation,
IDA conducted an assessment of and certification of these procedures, as required by OP/BP 10.02 and
the following pending actions will be taken by effectiveness: hiring of accountant, disbursement and
procurement officers, (paste from p.22(c)). IDA review focused, inter alia, on the accounting system in
use, the adequacy of internal controls, capacity of staff, arrangements for auditing and capacity to report
financial information to IDA in a way that meets project objectives.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PCU will establish monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedures acceptable to IDA. Procedures and
M&E will be guided by the Project Design Summary and the Monitoring Plan, to be detailed in the
Operational Manual. In order to ensure a proper orientation for the SFI PO and the project, and to assist GON
to develop a more clear and strategic vision of the forestry sector's potential within a sustainable development
context, the project would finance the establishment of an International Forestry Advisory Panel. The Panel
would comprise at least three world-class experts on forestry sector development and sustainable management.
Additional expertise will be brought in as required (especially indigenous people specialists and biodiversity
specialists). The Panel would meet at least twice in project year one, and at least once a year thereafter. The
assistance could be provided directly, in a very flexible way and custom tailored at a much lower cost than
international or bilateral organizations could do it. More importantly, the Panel members would remain in
permanent contact with the project and SFIPO through the Internet to answer questions or provide contacts to
other sources of expertise. In addition, the Panel's recommendations would be solicited by IDA prior to its 'no-
objections' on financing of subprojects or other technical issues. Project supervision mission will be conducted
by IDA twice a year beginning June 1999.



Page 37
TABLE 1. PRINCIPAL ACTORS
ENTIry                   DESCRIPTION                                                        PRINCIPAL FuNCTIONS
Organized groups; communities;   Primary clients of the  Subproject initiation and implementation; clients of outreach activities; participants in planning activities.
cooperatives; associations, private  project.
sector firms; municipalities
Cooperatives; associations, private  Interlocutors, service  Clients of outreach activities; representation of stakeholder groups; participants in planning activities; provide technical assistance
sector firms; municipalities; ONGs; providers, clients of  and services (incl. administration) in subproject initiation and implementation and client outrcach activities.
universidades; technical and    project for strengthening
research institutions.          activities.
Sustainable Forestry Investment    Service provider, responds P'romotion of private investments and forest certification; facilitation of access to appropriate technology and best practices;
Promotion Office (SFIPO)        to demands of primary    facilitation of access to financing (incl. joint ventures); assist to develop financial and economic incentives for smaliholder forestry;
clients and clients of  establish and comprehensive infornation system on Nicaraguan forestry; provide services and supervise contracts for technical
project for strengthening   assistance and training (outreach program) to strengthen institutional capacity for sustainable forestry; subproject promotion,
activities.             identification, selection, supervision and assessment: dissemination of subproject leaming. Responsible for component I and 3.
Intemational Forestry Advisory  Small group of           Ensure the proper orientation of the SFIPO and the project; assist GON to develop a clear, strategic vision of the forestry sector's
Panel                           intemationally known and  potential within a sustainable development context; provide technical recommendations regarding feasibility and appropriateness of
respected forestry sector   proposed subprojects.
specialists.
Project Coordination Unit       Small unit, charged by   Procurement; disbursement; accounting; contracting; project monitoring and supervision; meeting GON and IDA reporting
Minster of Agriculture    requirements; arrange supervision and evaluation missions and meetings of Intemational Forestry Advisory Panel; project
with project execution.    coordination. Lobbying activities in support of policy and legislation which support private investment incl. smallholder activities;
identification of priority public investments to facilitate private activities. Responsible for component 2.
Steering Committee              Representative body to    Project Steering Committee, composed Ministers of MAGFOR, MARENA, MIFIC, Ml ICP, private sector and civil society
ensure project orientation
balances demands of
principal stakeholder
groups.
Coordination Committee (ad hoc)   Representative body of    Project Coordination Committee composed of: Minister of MAGFOR, Advisor, INAFOR, Policy Unit and PCU Coordinator.
MAGFOR to ensure
proper orientation of PCU
work in MAGFOR.
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock  Ministry charged with  Responsible for project implementation.
and Forestry (MAGFOR)           coordinating policy for
productive rural activities,
including forestry.
Forestry Institute              Representative semi-     This Institute, created by the Modemization of the State Law, is responsible for overall policy inputs and coordination, a nd will
autonomous body under  receive technical assistance from PCU.
MAGFOR charged to
coordinate competing
interests of principal
stakeholder groups at the
national policy level.



Page 38
Ministry of Economy (MIFIC)    Ministry in charge of   This ministry will receive technical assistance from PCU on concessions policy.
giving concessions for
forestry, mines and
fisheries in state-owned
lands.
National Commission for        Stakeholders            CONADES oversees the work on clean development mechanisms.and will receive technical assistance by the project forjoint
Sustainable Development        Representative Body     implementation activities related to forestty.
(CONADES)
National Forestry Council      Stakeholders            The Council will serve as Board of Directors for the Forestry Institute and will approve the operational manual of the Institute.
(CONAFOR)                      Representative Body
composed by National
and Autonomous Regions
Govemment, Private
Sector, Civil Society and
Environmental NGOs



Page 39
TABLE 2. ROLES OF KEY ACTORS BY COMPONENT
PRINCIPAL AcroRs                                                        PROJECr COMPONENTS/SUBCOMIONENr S
Component 1.                             Component II.                                        Component 111.
Technical Assistance to              Public Sector Forestry Assistance                            Pilot Subprojects
Private and Communal
Sector Forestry
Organized groups;          Clients of SHIPO           Participate in proposal development, reprcsenting local  Initiators. investors, participants.
communities; cooperatives;                            interests.
associations, private sector
firms; municipalities
Cooperatives; associations,    Clients of SFIPO       Participate in proposal development, representing stakeholder  Initiators, investors, participants; provide assislance to organized
private sector firms;                                 interests.                                            groups; communities; cooperatives; associations, municipalities.
municipalities; ONGs;
universidades; technical and
research institutions.
Sustainable Forestry       Executes component I       Provides technical inputs.                            Executes component 3
Investment Promotion Office
(SFIPO)                                                                  .
Intemational Forestry      Technical advice SFIPO, PCU, and Steering Committee. Reviews and comments on annual work programs and outputs. In addition, reviews and comments on
Advisory Panel             proposals; recommends acceptance' rejection of technology introduction & verification proposals
Project Coordination Unit  Responsible for project administration, implementation, coordination, supervision and reporting. Approves all disbursements and expenditures. Executes
component 2.
Steerin Committee             .                                                                             Reviews proposals and gives "no-objection" to their financing.
Approves annual work
program PCU and budget. ,
Ministry of Agriculture,   Responsible for project implementation; productive rural sector policy - orientation and intersectoral coordination. Delegates implementation responsibility to
Livestock and Forestry     PCU. Interacts with Intemational Forestry Advisory Panel and IDA supervision missions on overall implementation progress and quality.
(MAGFOR)          ._
Forestry Institute (INAFOR)                           Recipient of technical assistance from the PCU and responsible
for producing the national forestry strategy by Year 3.
MIFIC                                                 Recipient of technical assistance from the PCU and responsible
for designing the concession policy for the forestry sector.   _
CONADES                                               Recipient of technical assistance from the PCU and responsible
I for starting Clean Development Mechanism in Nicaragua
National Forestry Council    Forestry sector policy - orientation and intersectoral coordination. Meets once a year to discuss the project and make recommendations.
(CONAFOR)                  The Council is the board of director of the Forestry Institute



Page 40
Annex 4
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
Pilot Subprojects
Eligibility Criteria
1. Geographic priorities are presented below. Criteria utilized to select priority areas included:
*   Regions identified as having significant potential for development of economically important
forestry activities.
*   For subproject investments, opportunity to work where definition of land tenure or conflict over
access to forest and land resources is not a constraint to private investment (cash and/or land
and/or "sweat" equity)6
*   Existence of organized groups or activities with clear, pre-demonstrated interest in forestry;
*   Existence of significant (relatively) private investment in forestry activities evident;
*   Potential for financially viable forestry investment; and
*   No immediate environmental conflicts between sustainable, productive forestry objectives
(agroforestry, forest management, or plantations) and forest conservation or protection objectives.
Table 1. Project Geographic and Thematic Priorities for Pilot Subprojects
LOCATION       OBJECTnVES            INDICATnVE OPPORTUNmES              PRINCIPAL STAKEEHOLDERS        JUSTIFICATION FOR
SaLECTION
Central        Sustainable     *   Organization and training of producer  Forest owners; subsistence  Agricultural frontier
Atlantic      forestry at the       groups                               producer households: forestry   advancing; presence of
Region:       agricultural          Fire management                      product buyers; local        biologically sensitive and
Nueva          frontier.       *   Technology improvement/transfer       communities; municipal       protected areas,
Guinea                         *   Marketing of small-scale forest business  govemments.              coordination within the
products                                                          Mesoamerican Biological
*   Testing of incentive mechanisms                                   Conidor and existing donor
projects.
Rio San Juan:   Planning and   *   Nurseries and plantation establishment    Local communities; forest  Existence of significant
San Carlos.    development of  *   Cooperative forest management         owners and cooperatives;     areas of potentially
El Castillo   tropical         *   Secondary forest management           loggers; sawmillers; exporters;  productive forest; existence
broadleaf forest  *   Forest fire control                 municipal govemments.        of forest industry
resources       *   Development of forestry organizations                              (secondary and tertiary
*   Conservation and management of                                    processors); supporting
protected areas by non-government                                 infrastructure; skilled and
stakeholders                                                     semi-skilled labor;
*   Agroforesty                                                       existence of significant
*   Value added processing for community                              private investment;
forest products                                                   presence of biologically
*   Forest management planning                                        sensitive and protected
*   Marketing of small-scale forest business                          areas.
products.
.             *   Testing of incentive mechanisms
Nueva          Planning and    *   Pine forest management                Local communities; forest    Existence of significant
Segovia       development of  *   Forest fire control                    owners and associations;     areas of potentially
pine forest     *   Training for forest management        loggers; sawmillers; exporters;  productive forest; existence
resources            associations                         municipal govemments.        of forest industry
*   Technology improvement/transfer                                   (secondary and tertiary
6 This criteria strictly applied could exclude the majority of RAAN from participation in subprojects. However, to
avoid unduly prejudicing the project against working in what is the most important area of natural forests in the
country, during the course of project implementation the SFIPO would seek the assistance of organizations
(e.g., WWF) who have established presence in RAAN and ample experience in the forestry sector to promote
the development of subprojects in areas and with groups in RAAN where conditions would allow
implementation (for example, communities that have titles to their land and are interested in managing their
forests are: Diez Comunidades, Haulover, Layasiksa).



__________                                     ~~~~~~~~~~Page 41                           _ ________
LOCATION       OBJECTVES              INDICATivE OppoRTuNnmEs              PRINCiPAL STAKEHOLDERS          JUSTIFICATION FOR
SELEcTnoN
a   Value added processing for pine forest                               processrs): suppOrting
products                                                           infrastrcture: skilled and
a   Forest management planning                                           semi-skilled labor.
*    Small-scale forest business                                         existence of significant
administration and management                                       private investment.
a   Mark-eting and commercialization of
pine forest products.
a   Testing- of incentive mechanisms      __________________________
Le6n,          Multiple-use     *   Nurseries and plantation establishment    Subsistence producer       Existence of significant
Chinandega,   reiForestation    *   Plantation and agroforestry            households: local             areas for resource
Meseta De                            management                            commnunities: municipal       development, supporting
Carazo,        Secondaiy        a    Management of natural regeneration    governiments: urban fujelwood   infrastructure: semni-skilled
foirest          a   Technology improvement/trasfer         users:, fuelwood buyer and    labor, existence of
management       *   Fuelwood management and mark-eting    wholesalers: ingenios (sugar    significant private
a    Fire management                       mills). coffee producers.    investment; high market
Inc-orporation   *   Value added processing for community                                 demand for fuelwood and
of timber' nion-      forest products                                                    tree products.
timiber, and fruit  a    Small-scale forest business
sp.-cies for          administration and management                                       Demand for technical
shade coffe~e    *   Mark-eting of small-scale forest business                            change to sustain
plantations           products.                                                           production:, high demand
a    Habitat/biodiversity enhancement                                    for reforestation, using sub-
s   Testing of incentive mechanisms                                      optimal technology: high
*   Vertical integration of smalholders and                              mark-et demand for
~~~~~~wood-based microenterprises                  _____________fuelwood and tree products
RAAN (Dies   Planning anid      a    Cooperative forest management          Local communities,           Existence of significanit
Comunidades   development of   -    Forest fire control                     demobilized soldiers, r-egional   areas of potential
IHaulover.     pinte and broad-   m    Marketing of small-scale forest busines   governments,            productive forests,
Layasiksa)7    leaf forest           products                                                            communitie-s with titles to
resources                                                                                 their land, communities
interested in managing their
forest resources.
2.  The following are intended as minimal eligibility criteria for purposes of clarifying the types,
locations ancd contents of subprojects to be financed as Pilot Subprojects during the three years of
projec-t exectltion (see Table 2). It is expected that these criteria will be changed and evolve over the
life of the project, based on experience and opportunity (MAGFOR will present yearly to IDA
approval for each eligibility change). Upon initiation of the project and the contracting of the SFIPO,
these subpro.Ject criteria would be amplified and finalized in the Subprojects Operations Manual. The
Subprojects Operations Manual would describe the processes for approval and administration of
activities, the eligibility criteria, the monitoring system and evaluation criteria, and the process for
dissemiinating the results. The Project Steering Committee and IDA would review and approve the
Subprojects Manual. Subsequent changes in the Subprojects Manual could be suggested by SFIPO or
the PCU on behalf of the Intemational Forestry Advisory Panel with subsequent approval by Project
Steerirng Committee and IDA.
Specific opportunities identified with the assistance of organizations (e.g., WWF) who have established presence in RAAN and ample
experierice in the forestry sector to promote the development ofsubprojects in areas and with groups in RANN where conditions
would allow implementation.



Page 42
Table 2. Subproject Financing Criteria
The criteria below are subject to yearly evaluations and changes based on implementation experience. All
changes will require a previous "no-objection " of IDA.
General         * In pre-defmed eligible areas
Criteria        * Maximum hvo year execution period
* Involving stakeholders with demonstrated interest and significant prior experience. or where significant
prior experience is not a constraint given adequate technical assistance
* Demand-driven and acceptable to local stakeholders
* Is not eligible for financing from another source
* Is technically. institutionally. and socially feasible and sustainable under local conditions
* Includes the necessary training and technical assistance to allow successful implementation and
sustainability
* No-objection from municipal council
Technical       * Potential for programmatic replication on scales significant to departmental or regional forestry resource
Criteria          management and its forestry-products based economy
* Responds to key constraints recognized as both relevant and priority by concemed stakeholder groups
* Financially sustainable. except for technology introduction and verification subprojects
* Cost-effectiveness as measured by participant versus project co-financing
* Existence of capacity to execute the proposal.
* Clearly identifies beneficiaries and mechanisms of participation for identification, design. and execution
* Includes no significant environmental risk
Equity Criteria  * A minimum of 30% of total financing directed to smallholders
Financing       * Financing ceiling of $150.000 (with exceptions possible on recommendation ofthe Project Steering
Criteria          Committee and no-objection from IDA)
* Minimum 50% beneficiary co-financing
Restrictions on      Funds may not be used for:
Fund Use        *   Activities in areas subject to land tenure or property rights conflicts.
* Practices or activities which promote resource degradation or contamination.
* Subprojects whose results are to create conditions which further marginalia or overburden any
component of the family or social group. in particular. women and indigenous people.
* Payment of taxes (direct or indirect) I
* Rental or purchase of lands, or titling.
* Payment of debts. dividends or for capital recovery.
* Purchase of stocks. bonds or other investment instruments.
* Consumer goods.
* Activities which are inappropriate to the experience level of the client without adequate technical
assistance.
* Religious or political activities of any kind.
* Any illicit or immoral activities.
* Purchase of vehicles without prior no-objection from IDA
* Purchase of goods for personal use
* Payment of salaries of staff of govemment or publicly-financed institutions



Page 43
Annex 5
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
MAGFOR Rural Development Strategy and National Environmental Action Plan: The
Forestry Sector
1. GON Priorities.    The Ministry of Agriculture's Rural Development Strategy (published in Sept.
1997), provides a macro-framework for the project's interventions. Specifically, the strategy calls
for:
(a)    Establishing a foundation for economic development of the forest industry under strict
management norms (e.g., certification) and consistent with national policies for rural
development.
(b)    Development of productive natural forest management:
Short to Medium term: Emphasis on the pine forests of Nueva Segovia and RAAN to
develop sawtimber, and potentially, chip markets.
Long term:  Tropical broadleaf forests of the Atlantic.  Prior to investment in
development of forestry potential, first resolve issues related to: (i) demarcation and
titling of indigenous lands; (ii) demarcation of public forest lands; (iii) forest and
biodiversity inventories; (iv) management planning; (v) definition of the legal and
regulatory framework for investment in forest industry based on tropical broadleaf
forests; and (vi) definition of mechanisms to avoid forest and environmental deterioration
as a function of management and harvesting (e.g., forest certification).
(c)    Sustainable forestry to include management and conservation of protected areas (including
Forest Reserves and Forest Genetic Reserves through strengthening of the National System of
Protected Areas and the development of the Atlantic Biological Corridor.
(d)    Reforestation: promotion of large-scale reforestation in the Pacific with a participatory and
poverty-alleviation focus.
(e)    Development of Forest Industry: promote gradual development of value-added processing.
In addition to specific forest sector policies, the strategy proposes a broader context within which forestry
investments can be facilitated and carried out in a lower risk policy and regulatory environment. These include:
(a)    Financial Services: Reform of financial regulatory system to allow for long term investments,
land leases and crop-based guarantees (ongoing with Japanese assistance);
(b)    Accelerate regularization of land tenure, giving priority to those areas in conflict (e.g.,
indigenous lands) and with high productive potential (expected with IDA and GEF
assistance);
(c)    Opening and expansion of markets through shared risk for activities designed to penetrate
new markets with nontraditional products, including developing a program with Ministry of
Foreign Relations to identify new markets, promote Nicaraguan products, and collect market
intelligence.
(d)    Facilitatating foreign investment through reform and updating of existing legal framework
(Law 127 and Decree 37-91), giving priority to investments that improve access to (i)
technology, (ii) modem production systems and (iii) foreign markets.
3. Project Thematic and Geographic Priorities.    Prioritization of areas for project intervention draws
heavily on the outputs from the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (1992), the National Environmental
Action Plan (1994), consultations with the relevant government ministries (MAGFOR, MARENA,
MIFIC), private sector (Camera Forestal, representatives of forest businesses, campesino forest owner
associations), bi-lateral donors (e.g., SIDA, DANIDA, JICA) and  NGOs  (PROLENA,



Page 44
NICAMBIENTAL). The National Environmental Action Plan called for the following priority
(thematic) interventions in the Forestry Sector, in order of importance:
Table 1. National Environmental Action Plan: priority interventions in the Forestry Sector and
IDA assistance.
Existing or
Proposed IDA
Objective                       Goal                         Recommended Actions               Assistance'
I. Regulate the use of forest  Remove policy-based incentives to   Clarify tenure situation and ownership of forest ATLMP,
lands                      the conversion of forest to      by indigenous peoples                    PROTIERRA,
agricultural lands.              Define lands for forestry usage and delimit    ABC
state forest lands
2. Promote forestry and    Control the advance of the       Eliminate the requirement of "improvements"  PROTIERRA.
agroforestry development   agricultural frontier            for agricultural credit                  SFIPP
along the agricultural frontier                             Establish financial mechanisms to promote
plantations and agroforestrv production.
3. Bring natural forest under Bring under productive management: Develop and disseminate management  SFIPP
sustainable management and   265.000 ha of pines: 150.000 ha of   systems for productive forest management.
promote plantation         broadleaf forests and 40.000 ha of    Make landowners responsible for the
development               tropical diy forest               management and regeneration of their forests.
Establish financial mechanisms for natural
forest management
4. Develop a modem and    Increase the productivity of the forest Promote private sector investment through: (i)  SFIPP
efficient forest industry  industry in the export sector and  developing norms and procedures for foreign
generate employment, while      investment: (ii) strengthen forest owner
minimizing environmental impacts.  associations.
Promote the commercial use of altemative
species.
Promote and orient state and private
investment to rehabilitate the forest products
industry.
5. Save energy and improve  Increase the efficiency of use of  Promote the use of plantations as altematives   SFIPP
the efficiency of the use of    fuelwood by 10% to 15%/.    for energy
fuelwood                                                    Provide financing for plantations
Review polices on regulation and control
6. Improve the forestry    Approve the new Forestry Law     Harmonize forestry, protected areas.     ATLMP.
sector's legal and institutional  Clarify tenure of forest lands  agriculture and livestock, and agrarian refomn  PROTIERRA,
framework                  Develop the concept of utilizing trees legislation.                       ABC, SFIPP
(productive forest, plantations) as    Establish a high level unit to provide follow up
firancial guarantees.           to the TFAP.
Strengthen the state's forest administration
capability
._________________________      Disseminate the TFAP.
- There are currently three IDA and one GEF assisted projects in Nicaragua. all of which directly provide cross-support to specific actions
proposed in the forestry sector by the NEAP. They are: the "Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project", the "Rural
Municipalities Project". and the "Atlantic Biological Corridor Project": referred to in the above table as the "ATLMP", "PROTIERRA" and
"ABC" projects. respectively. The proposed Forestry project is referred to as the "SFIPP"



Page 45
Annex 6
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Ofrice Project
Indigenous People Development Plan
Summary of main characteristics of indigenous peoples in Nicaragua2
In 1993, the estimated indigenous population of Nicaragua was 231,727 inhabitants, representing
5.2 percent of the total. The greatest concentration of indigenous people is found in the Atlantic region
where Miskito, Sumu, Rama and Garifona peoples live. The Miskito, with over 110,000 people, are the
most numerous of indigenous peoples. In fact, in 1993, they represented over 58 percent of the population
of the North Atlantic region and close to 48 percent of the total indigenous population of the country. In
contrast, in the Pacific region, there are also several indigenous peoples, among them the Sutiaba,
Monimb6, Matagalpa, Sebaco and Jinotega, but they are not as numerous as those in the Atlantic.
In the heavily populated pacific and Northern regions indigenous groups have had for a long time to adapt
to the dominant non-indigenous populations and have lost access to some of their traditional and cultural
identity. In the Atlantic Coast, on the other hand, with a low population density and vast areas of pristine
habitats, indigenous peoples for the most part still have access to their traditional territories and have been
able to maintain the essence of their traditional lifestyles.
The Sutiaba population of about 36,000 constitutes 17 percent of the total population in the Department of
Le6n. The majority -approximately 23,000- live in urban areas and the remaining 12,000 live in rural
areas. Rural Sutiabas are spread over nine rural coniarcas, which are also populated by non-Sutiaba
residents. IRural residents currently occupy an area of approximately 580 square kilometers, which
represents a small fraction of previous Sutiabas' territory. Urban Sutiaba live in the traditional historical
site of the Sutiaba pueblo, on the western side of the city of Le6n and in twenty-four small urban
settlements to the North, South and West of the Sutiaba pueblo.
The Sutiabas have no experience managing forest areas nor has this concem been part of their tradition in
light of the more pressing need for survival. Sutiaba territory lacks important forest areas except for a few
patches of tropical dry woods. Forest destruction is caused mostly by cutting for domestic and
commercial firewood. Almost 82 percent of Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) participants use firewood for
cooking.
Natural resource management issues
A fundamental issue that needs to be solved in Nicaragua relates to indigenous land and natural resources
rights. Clarifying these rights could go a long way in contributing to economic growth in Nicaragua. Until
indigenous land and natural resources right issues are solved in the resource rich Atlantic it will be
impossible for Nicaragua to pursue careful exploitation and sustainable use of its minerals, forests and
fisheries. P:otential investors will be scared away, resource values will not be maximized, and conflict and
gridlock will prevent indigenous communities from benefiting fully from resource and GON from
enforcing important environmental regulations.
The indigenous patterns of natural resource management are still predominantly traditional, based on
subsistence needs. They combine shifting agriculture with hunting and gathering and fishing. Indigenous
communities have traditionally managed their natural resources and have been able to maintain their
forest, but population growth, coupled with increasing perceived material needs, have led them to
disregard their old customs and to extract resources non-sustainably. There is almost no forest
management in the indigenous communities with some notable exceptions, such as: Saupuka, in the lower
s For more detailed information please refer to documents in the project file.



Page 46
Rio Coco; Wasakin, a Mayagna community in Rosita; and Waspuk, where communities have made
significant efforts to manage their forests. In many communities logging rights are regularly sold to
outside entrepreneurs.
Livelihood patterns are Jfected not only by the increasing needs of the population in the context of a
shrinking resource base but also by the fact that trade in agriculture and forest products faces obstacles
such as long distances and the lack of roads. Where there are commercial activities, they are dominated
by intermediaries who have little competition and thus impose prices on producers and consumers alike.
Timber production is also affected by the lack of knowledge about the market and by the dependency of
communities on a few logging enterprises.
Improved natural resource management and development in these areas require a concerted effort, based
on technical assistance, training and focused investments, not only to improve production but to create
marketing channels so that people can sell under less exploitative conditions.
Description of Indigenous Communities Development Plan (US$ 500,000)
The Indigenous Communities Development Plan benefited from the preparatory work carried out with
indigenous communities by the Rural Management Program and the Atlantic Biological Project but has
not been extensively consulted (see page 48). Additional detailed background studies are available in the
Project Files.
The specific objectives of the plan are:
I) To build indigenous peoples' capacity for sustainable development by increasing training in social,
administrative, technical, and financial aspects, particularly focusing on forestry management. This must
build on the development experience of successful cases already implemented by NGOs and other
organizations and must be based on a strongly participatory approach with a suitable gender focus where
appropriate. This objective is to be realized through component one of the project (Technical assistance to
private and communal sector forestry).
Indigenous communities and organizations will be strengthened through technical assistance and training.
Special efforts will be made to use indigenous languages and appropriate media channels. Attention will
be paid to indigenous organizations' needs for training in the design and implementation of forestry
management projects. To this end, there will be support-focused studies and technical assistance on
management plan, environmental impact, financial analysis, and internal workshops among indigenous
communities to discuss issues of sustainable forestry use.
Budget amount: $200,000 USD
2) In addition to the activities specifically targeted at indigenous peoples described above, indigenous
communities will be one of the key target stakeholders for the Public Sector Forestry Component and will
participate in the participatory planning process associated with it (i.e. in the development of the forestry
policy and the design of the regulations of INAFOR).
Budget Amount: $150,000
3) Although the project component 3 (Subprojects) will give priority to areas where land tenure issues are
resolved, a particular attention will be given during the course of the project to target some communities
in RAAN where conditions would allow implementation with the assistance of organization (like WWF)
who have established presence in RAAN and have experience in forestry. Some of the target community
are the ones with title to their land (like Diez Comunidades, Halauvor, Layasiska). Communities with
demobilized soldiers that comply with the criteria of the Subprojects Manual will also benefit from the
subprojects. The Atlantic Biological Corridor project will also have forestry subproject in RAAN and
RAAS. Budget amount: $150,000



Page 47
Indigenous People Action Plan
During negotiations the GON and IDA delegations agreed on the following Action Plan and monitorable
indicators for the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. Consultation will be held with the Indigenous
communities and will be linked to the launching (scheduled for February 1999) and consultation for the
ABC project on this Indigenous People Development Plan.
Matrix I describes the impact of the project on indigenous peoples, and Matrix 2 describes the action
plan for the development of the indigenous peoples in the forestry sector.
Matrix 1: Impact Matrix
Activities         Geographic          Indigenous People         Potential Benefits to   Potential Negative Impacts
Focus               Presence                 Indigenous People    to Indigenous People
1. Technical       National            Potential Clients         *   Increased           Increase conflicts between
Assistance to                                                         understanding      communities over forest
Private and                                                          of the value of     resources and between
Communal                                                             the resources       communities and other
Sector Forestry                                                  *   Access to           stakeholders
information and
technologies
*   Strengthening
ability to
negotiate
11. Assistance to    National          Stakeholders              Better participation in
Forestry Sector                                                  policies and program
Institutional                                                    making
Reform
Ill. Pilot         Le6n                Sutiaba indigenous                                Increased perception of
Subprojects                            group are urban or                                marginalization of the
coastal - no forestry                            indigenous communities with
owners                                           regards to the forestry sector
Chinandega          N/A  Small, medium,
large farmers
N/A Small and
Meseta de Carazo   medium farmers
Nueva Segovia       N/A  Small farmers
Rio San Juan        N/A  Small farmers
.......................................... ...................................... ......... ............................... .............I............... ..............................I.................................
RAAN                Yes                      *   Increased           Increased conflict over
understanding      resources.
of the value of
the resources
* Access to
infornation and
technologies
* Increased
economic
welfare



Page 48
Matrix 2: Planned Action Matrix
Activities          Action               Date                 Implementing         Funding Source
responsibilities
1. Technical        Stakeholder analysis  2 in 1999 (one in   PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
Assistance to Private                    pines area and the
and Communal                             other in broadleaf
Sector Forestry                          area)
Training            2 courses throughout
the life of the project  PCU/MAGFOR      IDA
and
Workshops           2 in 1999
I in 2000           PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
11. Assistance to                        I in 1998
Forestry Sector     Public consultations   I in 1999
Institutional Reform                     I in 2000            PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
Communications in   1999
local language      2000
(radio, bulletins,                       PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
pamphlets)
3 experts visiting
Technical assistance   pines area and
on:                 broadleaf areas
*  Management       owned by             PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
plan            indigenous
*  environmental    communities,
impact          providing TA each
*  financial        year
analysis
1999
2000
Dissemination of                         PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
best practices in
local language
111. Pilot Subprojects  Sustainable forestry   One per year   PCU/MAGFOR           IDA
subprojects in
Pacific, RAAN and                        PIU/MARENA           GEF
RAAS
MAG FOR: Ministerio Agropecuario y Forestal
MARENA: Ministerio de Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
PCU: Project Coordination Unit
PIU: Project Implementation Unit



Page 49
Annex 7
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                 Local              Foreign        Total
------------- US $ millions -----------
1. Technical Assistance to Private and Communal Sector Forestry         1.7              1.0             2.7
11. Public Sector Forestry Assistance                                  0.8               0.5             1.3
111. Pilot Subprojects                                                 8.0               2.0            10.0
IV. Administration                                                     0.8               0.2             1.0
Total Project C'ost (including contingencies)                         11.3               3.7            15.0



Page 50
Annex 8
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Responsibilities
I.    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAGFOR) would be responsible for carrying out procurement of goods, works and services for
the project. Only minor works for office reconstruction and within the Subprojects may be required.
Procurement and disbursement technical assistance to the PCU should be provided by a qualified
individual consultant. The PCU would also be responsible for monitoring implementation progress,
reporting and logistics such as arranging visits for the members of the International Forestry Advisory
Panel (the Panel).
2.    The Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office (SFIPO) would be solely responsible for
evaluating proposals for the Sub-projects, making recommendations for selection of eligible Sub-Projects
to the Steering Committee, and monitoring their implementation.
Procurement Procedures
3.    Since this credit will be financed through IDA II donor resources, procurement will be limited to
IDA II contributing members and IDA/IBRD borrowers. As a result, goods, works and services supplied
from nationals of the following countries are not eligible for procurement:
* The Bahamas
* Bahrain
* Barbados
* Brunei Darussalam
* Cyprus
* Kuwait
* Quatar
* Singapore and
* United Arab Emirates
4.    In all other respects consulting services, goods and works financed by the Bank under this Credit
would be procured respectively in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (the Consultant Guidelines)
published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, and the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 and revised in September 1997 (the Guidelines).
5.    In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member countries" and
"member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and
"Participating Country". In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member
countries" and member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating
Countries" and "Participating Country". In addition to those listed in paragraph 3 of this annex, the
following are countries from which bidders, goods and services are not eligible to participate in
procurement financed by IDA:
* Andorra
* Cuba



Page 51
*  Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea)
*  Liechte:nstein
*  Monaco
*  Nauru
*  San Marino and
*  Tuvalu
Furthermore, withdrawals from the Credit Account for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities
for any import of goods are also prohibited if such payment or import, to the knowledge of IDA, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
the United Nations. At the present time, this prohibition applies to:
*  Iraq and,
* Libya
6.    There is no up-to-date Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Nicaragua and no
comprehensive assessment of the local regulatory and institutional frameworks for procurement was
conducted. MAGFOR has some experience with procurement under IDA projects and is familiar with
IDA requirements for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB procedures acceptable to the IDA for
the purposes of this project would include the use of documents based on the World Bank-issued
Standard Bidding Documents, with appropriate modifications. Details of shopping procedures, including
a format for requests for quotations, would be discussed during the Project launch workshop. The prior
review of the first contract of each type should also have the objective of further looking into and
agreeing to standard documentation and procedures to be used in subsequent procurement following the
same method.
Procuremeint Methods
Goods
7.    The Project would finance the procurement of vehicles, computers, office equipment and
furniture for the PCU and the SFIPO. Contracts for the supply of goods estimated to exceed US$50,000
equivalent up to US$250,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures. However,
only one NC'B package for procurement of vehicles estimated to cost US$89,000 equivalent is
anticipated.
8.    Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of
US$150,000 equivalent would be awarded following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. One shopping package for procurement of computers and a few for other
office equipment, furniture, audiovisual equipment, and air-conditioners are anticipated.
Works
9.    The Project would procure small works which consist of (a) minor rehabilitation and upgrading of
offices for thie PCU, and (b) surveys, remote sensing services, satellite imagery and aerial photography.
These small contracts (total US$111,000) would be awarded on the basis of lump-sum fixed price
contracts below US$50,000 in remote areas and direct contracting below US$10,000 in remote areas.
Consultant Services
10.   The project would finance technical assistance, studies and capacity building for sustainable
forestry development, and technical assistance to the PCU for procurement and disbursement. Technical
assistance would include the establishment and management of a comprehensive information system on
forestry, supervision of Sub-Projects, introduction and transfer of technologies and best practices,



Page 52
marketing and commercialization outreach, review of natural resource law and forestry regulations,
education and commercialization for sustainable forestry management. Contracts for firms estimated to
cost more than US$100,000 would be procured following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
process, in accordance with Chapter 11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
11.    A contract for the development of national standards for the certification of forestry products as
being from sustainable managed sources estimated to cost approximately US$75,000 and services under
subprojects of consulting firms to cost less than US$ 100,000 would be awarded to a firm following a
selection process based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), in accordance with Paragraph 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines. National standards should be based on the standards developed by the Forestry
Stewardship Council (FSC), the only internationally recognized body for certification of forestry
products.
12.   Individual consultants would be used for those that meet the requirements of 5.1 such as long-
term consultants to the SFIPO with extensive related experience, for example an Investment Specialist, a
Technology Specialist, a Rural Finance Specialist, an Information Specialist and an Economist, a
Biodiversity Specialist, an Indigenous Peoples Specialist, and a Communication and Education Specialist.
13.    Additional individual contracts financed by the project would include those with the members of
the Panel, studies, and consultation for strengthening of institutional mechanisms for forestry sector
investment and participatory development of a national forestry investment program. A qualified
individual consultant should be retained to ensure that the PCU has adequate procurement and
disbursement capacity to carry out its responsibilities efficiently.
14.   In order to accelerate project implementation, the Borrower intends to contract the procurement
and disbursement specialist, other consultants for the PCU, and other TA for the presentation of
workshops before credit signing. In such cases, retroactive financing may be available in accordance with
Paragraph 1.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, and as specified in paragraph 23 of this Annex.
Structured Learning Sub-Projects
15.   All grants to eligible beneficiaries, as defined in the Sub-projects Manual, would be awarded in
accordance with the procedures and criteria detailed therein. Award recommendations would be
approved by a Steering Committee and will require IDA's No Objection. The structure of the Steering
Committee will be agreed with IDA, but its composition will be representative of key Government (e.g.
MAGFOR, MIFIC, and MARENA) and private sector project stakeholders. The Council would provide
technical advice and guidance throughout the process to SFIPO and the Steering Committee. The minutes
of the meetings with the Panel and other communications between the Panel and involved parties would
be enclosed to the semi-annual reports to serve as an additional monitoring tool.
16.   Individual grants would not exceed US$150,000 equivalent, and standard grant agreements,
acceptable to IDA and to be included in the Subprojects Manual would be used to transfer grants funds to
selected implementing entities under conditions that ensure adequate implementation. All grants would
require a minimum investment of 50% of the sub-project cost from the beneficiary. Beneficiary
contribution would be either in cash or in kind.
17.    Approximately 80% of these Subprojects would require Technical Assistance for introduction of
new technologies, development of management plans, fire management, and certification. Approximately
10% is estimated to be required respectively for materials and supplies (e.g. shovels, simple fire fighting
equipment, and seeds) and small works (e.g. minor excavations and construction of towers for fire
prevention). All goods, works and services for the Subprojects shall be procured at a reasonable price,
taking into account also other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts thereof, and in case of services, of their
quality and competence of the parties rendering them, and such goods, works and services shall be used
exclusively in carrying out such subprojects.



Page 53
18.   Works for subprojects estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified dornestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. Direct contracting may be used to
procure works estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent in remote rural areas and where
competitive proposals cannot be obtained.
19.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to US$150,000 equivalent would
be procured f-ollowing shopping procedures. Goods packages estimated to cost more than US$50,000
equivalent, if any, would be procured following NCB procedures. However, no such packages are
anticipated al: this time.
Prior Reviewv of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
20.   Table I summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and IDA prior review. Any contract
awarded on a single-sourcebasis, assignment of a critical nature and amendments raising contract values
above the thresholds are subject to prior review.
Reporting
21.   Beginning with June 30, 1999, the PCU would prepare and forward to IDA semi-annual reports
on the status of implementation of the project in the previous semester. By November of each year,
beginning with December 1998, the PCU would prepare and forward to IDA an annual implementation
plan detailing project activities contemplated for the subsequent calendar year and any revision to the
Subproject Manual i(e.g. eligibility and priority criteria). The PCU would coordinate the preparation of
these reports with SFIPO and receive technical assistance from the Council, as necessary. Not later than
six months prior to project completion, the Bank, the PCU, SFIPO and the Council would collaborate in
producing (i) an operational plan, indicating how Project impact would be sustained; and (ii) an
Implementation Completion Report to assess project effectiveness and its contribution to sustainable
forestry investment in Nicaragua.
Disbursement
22.   The proposed credit would be disbursed over a three and a half year period with effectiveness
expected in MEarch 1999. The credit closing date would be March 30, 2003. IDA would finance 100
percent of foreign and local (ex-factory) and 80% of other local expenditures. Technical Assistance will
be financed at 100%. Operating costs would be financed at a declining rate of 100% up to an aggregate
amount of SDRI 10,000, and 60% thereafter. Works will be financed at 90%. Grants will be financed at
100%. The allocation of credit proceeds is provided in Table 3 of this annex.
23.   Disbursement would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring IDA prior review. For contracts and expenditures not subject to prior review,
including recurrent costs, disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
which supporting documents would be maintained by the PCU and would be made available to external
auditors and to IDA for staff reviews.
24.   Retroactive financing up to a maximum amount of SDR250,000 equivalent may be available for
contracts signed after May 1, 1998.



Page 54
Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing
25.   The PCU will utilize financial management procedures which will be established within
MAGFOR. IDA conducted an assessment of these procedures and prepared an action plan to address
deficiencies identified, as required by OP/BP 10.02. IDA review focused, inter alia on the accounting
system in use, the adequacy of internal controls, capacity of staff, arrangements for auditing and capacity
to report financial information to IDA in a way that meets project objectives. By effectiveness the
following will done in order to make the system fully satisfactory: an accountant as well as disbursement
and procurement officers have been hired, and a manual of accounting procedures has been prepared.
The assessment compared the financial capability of MAGFOR and the PCU of the Agricultural
Technology and Land Management Project to see if they could guarantee the quality of the services for
the Forestry Project. The conclusion of the assessment is that in both cases structural changes are needed
to comply with the World Bank requirements. It would take a lot of time, and it will be very expensive.
The suggestion of a certified Financial Analyst is that the financial administration of the project should be
done by the PCU. To ensure efficiency and quality an action plan was prepared, the main elements of
which are: (a) including the financial administration personnel in the PCU; (b) designing the financial
administration operational manual; (c) defining the administrative procedure for disbursement consistent
with the accounting system; (d) purchasing software for financial administration; (e) purchasing the
necessary computer with internet access and establishing the network; (f) hiring a public accountant and a
financial assistant; and (g) hiring an administrative assistant familiar with World Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures (the full text of the Financial Assessment is included in project files).
26.   The PCU would maintain separate records and project accounts in accordance with accounting
principles and financial management standards acceptable to IDA. In addition, the PCU would
consolidate all project records to prepare financial reports, which would reflect, inter alia expenditures
under the sub-projects. Supporting documentation would be kept by the PCU for at least one year after
the final disbursement of funds for the project.
27.   Project accounts would be audited annually by independent chartered auditors acceptable to IDA.
No later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the PCU would submit to IDA copies of audit
reports containing separate auditors' opinion on project accounts, SOEs, and the Special Account. The
Project Operating Manual would include Terms of Reference for the auditors, following the guidelines
included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting an Auditing Handbook.
28.   Technical audits of the Subprojects would be conducted separately and included in the budget for
each Sub-Project. Technical audits would check whether sub-project activities were completed in
accordance with the agreed methodology and work plan and whether resources were used appropriately
and efficiently.
Special Account
29.   A Special Account in US dollars may be established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA,
with an authorized allocation and initial deposit of US$750,000. Unless IDA should otherwise agree, the
authorized allocation is limited to US$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the credit
account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA as per section
5.02 of the credit agreement shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000. This amount is
consistent with expenditures expected during an average four months of project execution. The Special
Account would be replenished at least monthly to ensure liquidity of funds, and the replenishment
applications would be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in which the account is
established showing all transactions in the Special Account. The PCU would be responsible for opening
and managing the Special account.



Page 55
Annex 8
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table 1: Prior Review Thresholds (US$ Thousands)
Category            Contract Value   Procurement Method        Prior Review Limit
Frocurement for the
FCU and SFIPO
C;oods                  50 to 250              NCB                 First contract
< 50               Shopping              First contract
UJorks                  <50,000               Shopping                 None
Direct Contracting
Consulting Service       > 100                 QCBS                     All
by Firms                 < 100                  CQ                Review of TOR
Only
According to Section V
> 30        Of Consultants Guidelines        All
Individuals               <30                    .              Review of TOR only
Procedures for selection in
Sub-Projects              <150                Manual                     9
Goods                                         Shopping
<50                                      First contract
Works                                          NCB
>50            Three Quotations          First contract
<50                                      First contract
DC for works in remote
<10                  areas                  None
Consulting Services                            QCBS
by ]:irms                 >100                  CQ                      All
<100                                  Review of TOR only
Individuals                           According to Section V of
>30          Consultants Guidelines          All
<30       l                          Review of TOR only
9AII grant award recommendations would be subject to the Bank's No Objection.



Page 56
Annex 8
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                        Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB           Other        NBF
1. Goods
Vehicle, computers and                           223           234                          457
Office equipment                                 (150)       (200")                         (350)
2. Works
Rehabilitation Offices                                  22                            22
(20)                         (22)
Remote sensing and aerial                               89                            89
photography                                          (80)                          (80)
3. TA (Consultants, training and
studies)
3.477                        3.477
(3.200-1)                    (3.200)
4. Sub-Projects
10,000                       10.000
(5,000)                      (5.000)
5. Recurrent/Operating Costs
1200                         1200
(350)                        (350)
Total
223         15.022                       15.245
(150)       (8,850)                      (9.000)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
"Shopping procedures, community participation, and direct contracting, as applicable.
12 Quality and Cost Selection, Consultants' Qualifications and individual consultants Selected in accordance with
Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines.



Page 57
Annex 8
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table 3: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Categories                         Amounts                           Financing
(USS'000)
1. Goods                                        320                     100% FE/ 100% of ex-factory/
80% LE
2. Works and Other Services
(a) Rehabilitation Offices                  20,000
(b) Renmote.sensing and aerial               80,000                             90%
photo services                                                               100%
3. TA (Consultants, training and                2,910
studies)                                                                          100%
4. Grants ior Sub-Projects                      5,000
100% of the amount of the Grant
5. Operating Costs                               350
100% up to SDRI 10,000; 60%
thereafter
6. Unallocated                                   320
TOTAL                                           9,000



Page 58
Annex 9
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned                Actual
(At final stage)
$100,000              $80,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned                Actual
(At final stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4 months             9 months
First Bank mission (identification)              2/15/1998             2/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                       6/3/98               6/29/98
Negotiations                                      7/8/98               11/23/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/30/98              03/30/99
Prepared by: MAGFOR
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name:                                      Specialty:
Luis Constantino                          Task Manager
Paola Agostini                            Co-Task Manager - Economist
Jim Smyle                                  Natural Resources Specialist
Horst Wagner                               Forestry Specialist
Nicolette Bowyer                           Country Officer and Communication Specialist
Maria Teresa Delgado                       Economist
Douglas Graham                             Environmental Specialist
Valeria Junho-Pena                         Social Scientist
Maurizio Guadagni                          Decentralization Specialist
Mark Cackler                               Sector Leader ESSD
German Escobar                             Financial Analyst
Enzo de Laurentis                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg                      Senior Country Lawyer
Patricia Eyenga                            Assistant
Mike Kiernan                               Peer Reviewer- World BanklWWF
Robert Kirmse                              Peer Reviewer - ESSD
Luis Guasch                                Peer Reviewer - FPSI
Nicaragua based staff who worked on the
project included:
Mario De Franco                            Minister of MAGFOR
Noel Sacasa                                Minister of MIFIC
Carlos Arce                                Economist, MAGFOR
Mario Arana                                Financial Specialist, MAGFOR
Alvaro Montalvan                           Director, INAFOR



Page 59
Arnoldo Paniagua                            Agricultural Specialist, MAGFOR
Victor Tercero                             Technical Advisor, MAGFOR
Malvin Senteno                              Forestry-Environment Specialist, MAGFOR
Miguel Castellon                           Economist, MAGFOR
Jorge Luis Dubon                           Agricultural Economist, MAGFOR
Luis Olivas                                 Agronomist, MAGFOR
Fausto Cepeda                              Natural Resource Specialist. WWF
Rony Pont                                   Indigenous People Specialist, MIKUPIA
Karl Kehr                                   Forestry Products Specialist, MAGFOR



Page 60
Annex 10
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoire: Identification Mission, February, 1998
Aide-memoire: Preparation Mission, April, 1998
Aide-memoire: Pre-appraisal Mission, June 1998
Aide-memoire: Appraisal Mission, July 1998
Country Assistance Strategy for Nicaragua March 18th 1998, Report No. 17496
Letter from Mr. Mario De Franco (MAGFOR) requesting the project
Letter from Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada (MHCP) requesting the project
Letter from Mr. Noel Sacasa (MIFIC) requesting the technical assistance from the project
Nicaragua: Rural Municipalities Project August 1994, Report No. 15562-NI
Nicaragua: Atlantic Biological Corridor Project June 1997, Report No. 16535-NI
C. Other
Bautista Salas Estrada, J. 1993. Arboles de Nicaragua. INRA.
Barahona Najlis, Tupac - Consultant - Crisis, Arborizaci6n y Conservacionismo: Por que y c6mo
la gente se interesa por los irboles, November 1997
Ciesla, W.M. - Natural Resources Institute - Manejo de Incendios Forestales: Evaluaci6n de la
Capacidad Actual del Pais y la Necesidad de Apoyo Adicional, January 1997
CIPRES - El Sector Forestal y la Autogesti6n Campesina de los Bosques, October 1996
de Camino, R. - SIDA Consultant - Study on Natural Forest Management in Nicaragua, 1998
IRENA - Plan de Acci6n Forestal, August 1992
Lacyao C6rdoba, 0. and Eduardo Zamora Gonzilez - Consultants - Estudio de Caso Sobre la
Situaci6n de Especies Maderables No-tradicionales: Cooperativa Coopesan R.L. de San
Ram6n, Rio San Juan, September 1997
Leite Arieira, M. B. M. - Consultant - Nicaragua and the Western Region: Poverty and Soci-
Economic Conditions, August 1995
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock - A Road Map for Modernizing Rural Nicaragua, April
1998
Molinos, V.A. - FAO Consultant - Incrementando la Inversi6n Privada para el Desarrollo Forestal
Sostenible de Nicaragua, March 1998
Ortega, M. - Consultant - Estudio Sobre la Comunidad Indigena de Sutiaba: Departamento de
Leon, September 1995; Estudio Sobre la Poblaci6n Rural de Le6n y Chinandega, September
1995
PROTIERRA/MARENA: Propuesta de Ordanamiento Ambiental del Territorio - Technical
Report, September 1997
Rivas Leclair, Carlos. - Consultant INIFOM - Sistema de Procedimientos Ambientales para la
Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal



Page 61
Saienz Ruiz, R.and Aquiles Morales Silva - FUNDENIC - Decretos y Leyes Forestales de
Nicaragua, December 1997; Decreteos y Leyes de Areas Protegidas,
van den Broek, R. and Ad van Wijk - FAO Consultant - La generaci6n de electricidad a partir de
eucalipto en ingenios azucareros en Nicaragua, November 1997
Wagner, Horst. - Consultant - BTO report
*Including electronic files.



Page 62
Annex 11
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion OMce Project
Statement of Bank Group Operations in Nicaragua
IBRD Credits and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of November 25, 1998
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 35
Active Projects
NI-PE-40197     1999   GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA           FISE III                                 45.00        0.00        0.00              45.00         0.00        0.00
NI-PE-35753     1998   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA             HEALTH SECT II                            0.00       24.00        0.00              25.20          .53        0.00
NI-PE-53705     1998   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA             TRANSPORT II                              0.00       47.40        0.00              49.55         0.00        0.00
NI-PE-7777      1998   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA             FINAN SEC. ADJUSTMEN                      0.00       70.00        0.00              31.25        15.69        0.00
NI-PE-7790      1997   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA             RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                      0.00       30.00        0.00              21.25          .49        0.00
NI-PE-7788      1996   GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA           ROADS REHAB & MAINT                       0.00       25.00        0.00              15.48       11.57         0.00
NI-PE-35080     1995   GOVT. OF NICARAGUA                INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                      0.00       23.00        0.00               8.21          .54        0.00
NI-PE-7783      1995   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION             EDUCATION                                 0.00       34.00        0.00               8.32         4.40        0.00
NI-PE-7178      1994   GOVERNMENT                        HEALTH SECTOR PROJEC                      0.00       15.00        0.00               1.35          .96        0.00
NI-PE-7780      1994   GOVT OF NICARAGUA                 TECH & LAND MGMT                          0.00       44.00        0.00              12.70       11.15         0.00
Total                                                                                             45.00      312.40        0.00             218.31       45.33         0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 138.12               559.67              697.79
of which has been repaid:                   0.00              230.18              230.18
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 357.40               323.36              680.76
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                5.62                5.62
Of which repaid               :                0.00                5.62                 5.62
Total Undisbursed                :              218.31                 0.00              218.31
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Oct-98.



Page 63
Annex 12
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Office Project
Ministerial Resolution
GOBIERNO DE NICARAGUA
ACUERDO INTERMINISTERIAL
Los suscritos firmantes Ministros de Estado de la Republica de Nicaragua del Ministerio
del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales (MARENA), Ingeniero Roberto Stadthagen, el
Ministerio de Economia y Desarrollo (MEDE), Doctor Noel Sacasa, el Ministeno de
Agricultura y Ganaderia (MAG), Doctor Mario A. De Franco, en uso de las facuitades
que la ley nos confiere, manifestamos nuestro acuerdo en apoyar el Proyecto de
Promoci6bn de la Inversi6n Forestal Sostenible, con Asistencia Tecnica Financiera del
Banco Mundial bajo la responsabilidad del Ministero de Agricultura y Ganaderfa (MAG)
y expresamos nuestra voluntad de establecer una efectiva coordinaci6n entre las
politicas estrategias y acciones correspondientes al bmbito de competencias de
nuestros respectivos ministerios para la bienandanza de este Proyecto. En particular
manifestamos nuestro proposito de formar parte del Directoro Tripartito del Proyecto,
conjuntamente con representantes del sector privado y la sociedad civil.
Ademas manifestamos que la ejecuci6n de este Proyecto es coherente con el nuevo
ordenarriiento institucional que surgira de la puesta en vigor de la Ley de Organizacion,
Competencias y Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo.
En fe de lo anterior firmamos el presente acuerdo en la ciudad de Managua, a los cinco
dias del mes de junio de mil novecientos noventa y ocho.
Roberto Stadthagen                                Noel Sacasa
Ministro del Ambiente y los                       Ministro de Economia y
Recurscis Naturales                               Desarrollo
(MARENA)                                          (MEDE)
Mario A. De Fran6o
Ministro de Agricultura y
Ganaderia



Annex 13
Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project
Country at a Glance                                              9/30198
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America      Low-
Nicaragua   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (mdlions)                         4.6       494     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    410      3,880       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$billions)                        1.9      1,917      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         3.0        1.7      2.1
Labor force (%)                                        4.0       2.3       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  50
Urban population (% of total population)               63         74        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68        70        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               42         32        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              24                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  61        73        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   34         13        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  110       111        91                  Nicaragua
Male                                                109                  100                  Low-income group
Female                                              112                   81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                            3.2      2.8       2.0       2.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                17.3     16.9      27.7      30.9                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            33.0     12.8      40.8      46.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.5      8.8       2.8       3.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   10.7      6.6      -4.7       4.0
Current account balancelGDP                  -1.5    -25.0     -32.5    -26.8       Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         1.3      0.7       4.4       7.6                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                               27.6    238.8     300.8    291.7       Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   13.3     14.3       23.0      31.2
Present value of debvGDP                                      - 245.7    237.0
Present value of debVexports                                   499.8    427.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -2.4      0.7      4.5        5.0      5.8             -     Nicaragua
GNP per capita                      -6.1     -1.6      4.8        7.9       2.8                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       -7.1     11.2     37.9       4.0       8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  22.6     20.8       34.2      33.8
Industry                                     28.3     33.5      21.9      21.7    20 -
Manufacturing                              20.8     27.7       16.0      15.6    10
Services                                     49.2     45.7      43.9      44.6 6
Private consumption                          72.2     55.8      83.8      83.2    -10-   92   93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                 9.3     35.4      13.4      13.1                   GDI            GDP
Imports of goods and services                31.8     20.8      65.7      73.8
197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  -2.9      3.2        6.6       8.5    60 -
Industry                                     -2.2      0.3       5.4       5.0    40
Manufacturing                              -0.4     -0.8        2.4       3.1
Services                                     -2.4     -0.4       2.7       2.9    20
Private consumption                          -7.6      2.6       2.8       3.1      0                              ____
General govemment consumption                18.4     -8.6      -1.7       5.9        f   92          94   95   96   97
Gross domestic investment                     1.0      3.2      10.2       5.3   -20 -
Imports of goods and services                 0.6      4.8      29.6       2.0                  Exports    -    mports
Gross national product                       -3.5      1.5       7.9      11.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Nicaragua
PRICES and GDVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic pnces 
(% change)
Consumer prces                                 2.6    681.7       11.6       9.2      a.ooo
ImplicitGDPdeflator                           10.4    281.5       11.6       9.2      6000
Government finance                                                                    2.000
(% of GDP, inc/ijdes current grants)                                                     O                 *_
Current revenue                                  ..    35.0       30.6      33.1               92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..    -8.4         1.9       4.5                   GDP deflator  i J  CPI
Overall surplus/ieficit                         ..   -15.2       -15.4      -8.9
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997       Export and Import tevels (US% mtltons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            542      248        670       791       s
Coffee                                       119       110       116       132
Shrimp and lobster                            20         9        75        74       000
Manufactures                                 168       33        267       296      1000
Total imports (cit)                            532      756      1,166     1,373
Food                                          95       98        241       261       S00.                       *
Fuel and energy                               68      127        164       161
Capital goods                                113      218        314       413 .
91  92  93  94  95   96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                   49       78         91        93
Import prce index (1995=100)                    62       69        101       106               U Exports      a Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                        79      113         90        88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ milbons)
Exports of goods and services                  616      277        806       936      0
Imports of goods and services                  592      836      1,299     1,482
Resource balance                                23     -559       -493      -545    -20
Net income                                     -72  -149   -300  -160  iN                                11
Net current transfers                            0        0        152       165      40-
Current account balance                        -49     -708       -641     -540      40
Financing items (net)                           45      505        633       598
Changes in net reserves                          4      203          8       -58     40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         148       ..        197       302
Conversion rate (DEC, loca1VUS$)               4.0    154.1        8.4       9.4
EXTERNAL DEI3T and RESOURCE FLOWS
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996     1997       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outsta nding and disbursed          883    6,752      5,929     5,887
IBRD                                          64      200        44        24                   G- 74    A: 24
IDA                                           19       60       335       368                                 s: 368
F: 275             C 27
Total debt service                              84       40        223       349
IBRD                                           6        0         22       20
IDA                                            0        0          4         4                                  Y,
Composition of ret resource flows                                                                                     0  :1.752
Official grants                               -1       61        168      102                 _.. ,.
Official cTeditors                            57      761        100        37                              ,
Private creditcrs                             -4        8         -9        -2         E: 3.367
Foreign direct investment                     13        0        80       107
Portfolio equity                               0        0        95       232
World Bank program
Commitments                                   11        0        61          0     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 19        0        69        50      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                            2        0         18        18     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net tlows                                     17        0         51       33      _
Interest payments                              4        0          8        6
Net transfers                                 13        0        43        27
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/30/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29637
87~                            86                              85,                             B&                              83-
NICARAGUA
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY
00 ,t,   .;   a                        PROJECT
NATURAL FOREST COVER
coyos
H O  N  D U R A  S                                   .r   ;                                                                   M,M   dsq                      P NE FORESTS
HONDURAS     (                                   HUo  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TROPICAL BROADLEAF FORESTS~~~~~~~~~~~TRPIALBRADEA FRET
PNE SAVANNAH
COASTAL WETLANDS
500                  f                   L2i\7^ Logoo/ jNO NATURAL VEGETATION
-IA-                                                                                                                                       '4r                       14-                    PAVED ROADS
UNPAVED ROADS
"j)  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
*   NAT ONAL CAPITAL
MUNICIPAL BOLNDAR ES
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNODARIES
-11-                                                                                 s 's,  -,'/                                    FIRL'': S                        11-                     '-
CHI~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
tLA .   t,        - t                                   _ 10                    C05TA RICA  PANAMA    
COSTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIO~ RIC                                         BELL-UEot9^)L
87  BBa  85  8a-                    83-                       906       E6'       82        COLOhlBIA
NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                             OT IAPNM   0
,GI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEEE 129L



