Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3160-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Sustainable Forestry Investment Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3160-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1999, between Republic of Nicaragua (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
Page  2
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CONADES” means the Borrower’s National Commission for Sustainable 
Development; 
(b)
“Eligible Beneficiary” means a cooperative, corporation, association, or 
other organization with legal personality which is eligible as a beneficiary of a 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Subprojects Manual (as defined 
below);
(c)
“INAFOR” means the Borrower’s National Forestry Institute;
(d)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Association of even date herewith;
(e)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(f)
“MAGFOR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and 
Forestry;
(g)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(h)
“MIFIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Development, Industry and 
Commerce;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of Parts A and B 
of the Project referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Resolution” means the ministerial resolution or resolutions 
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(l)
“SFIPO” means the sustainable forestry investment promotion office 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“Subproject” means a Sustainable Forestry Subproject or a Technology and 
Verification Subproject (as defined below);
(o)
“Subprojects Manual” means the manual for the operation of Subprojects 
referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)
“Sustainable Forestry Subproject” means a subproject for sustainable 
forestry, planning and development of forestry resources, reforestation, forest 
management and other forestry related activities, which is eligible for financing in 
Page  3
accordance with the provisions of the Subprojects Manual; and
(q)
“Technology Improvement and Verification Subproject” means a subproject 
to introduce, test and/or disseminate new technologies for reforestation, natural 
forest management, and processing and product improvement, which is eligible for 
financing in accordance with the provisions of the Subprojects Manual. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2009 and ending January 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of MAGFOR or any person he or she may designate in 
writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MAGFOR, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, economic, forestry, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through a ministerial resolution or resolutions (the 
Project Resolution), establish and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project:
(a)
within MAGFOR, a Project unit (the PCU) with a sustainable forestry 
investment promotion office (SFIPO) included therein; and
(b)
a steering committee, 
all staffed with professionals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than November 30 of each year, until completion of the 
Project, furnish to the Association for its approval, an annual operating plan for the 
implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve months, such plan to 
comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the 
respective year; (ii) the objectives, and expected results or outputs of such 
activities; (iii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including the 
counterpart funds; (iv) the proposed revisions to the Subprojects Manual and the 
Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant institutional arrangements and 
responsibilities; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 
each year, commencing June 30, 1999 a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;
(d)
review with the Association by July 31 and January 31 each year, or such 
later dates as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph 
(c) of this Section; and (e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out: (a)
Parts A and B of the 
Project in accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association (the 
Operational Manual), said Manual to include, inter alia, the procedures for 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Parts A and B of the Project; and (b)
Part C of the Project in accordance with a subprojects manual, satisfactory to the 
Association (the Subprojects Manual), said Manual to include, inter alia, the criteria 
and procedures for promotion, identification, approval, implementation and monitoring 
of Subprojects, the procedures for preparation and implementation of Subprojects 
involving indigenous communities and women; and other social consideration 
requirements for the processing of Subprojects.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  6
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions; 
(a)
MAGFOR shall have put into operation a system, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the administrative, financial and accounting control of the Project;
(b)
MAGFOR shall have: 
(i)
issued the Project Resolution establishing the PCU, SFIPO and the 
Steering Committee; 
and 
(ii)
appointed a director and subdirector respectively for the PCU and 
SFIPO, and a 
technical expert for SFIPO, all with qualifications and 
experience 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
the Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Association and 
adopted by MAGFOR. 
Section 5.02. The date April 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Goods
   235,000
100% of foreign
expenditures , 100% 
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of other local
expenditures
(2)
(a) Works for Part D 
    15,000
90%
of the Project
(b) Remote sensing imagery     60,000
100%
services for Part A. (f)
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’
2,055,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Grants for Subprojects
3,550,000
100% of the amount
of the Grant
(5)
Operating Costs
  250,000
100% of expenditures
until the aggregate 
amount disbursed under
this Category reaches 
SDR110,000, and 60% 
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
  235,000
TOTAL
6,400,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
MAGFOR on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, publications, translations, utilities, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
250,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after May 1, 1998; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (4) unless the Subprojects 
Manual shall have been approved by the Association and adopted by MAGFOR. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts in respect of which prior review by the Association is not required in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.2, and Section II, Part D.2 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the Borrower’s and private 
stakeholders’ capacity to deal with forestry development issues; and (b) to develop 
alternative schemes to address the Borrower’s long-term forestry issues.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of Sustainable Forestry by the Private Sector
Provision of technical assistance, training (including workshops), and 
equipment,  as required:
(a)
to develop a policy of certification of environmentally sound forestry 
activities as a means to achieve sustainable forestry management and reaching new 
markets, including the development of the national criteria thereof, training of 
certification officers and cost-sharing schemes;
(b)
to promote and facilitate sustainable private forestry investments;
(c)
to introduce in the country, and to transfer to interested investors, new 
forestry technologies and best practices;
(d)
to develop financial and economic incentives necessary to integrate 
small-holders into forestry productive activities;
(e)
to identify key public investments which would facilitate private sector 
forestry activities;
(f)
to establish a national forest information system including the remote 
sensing imagery required therefor; and
(g)
to carry out a training, marketing and communication outreach campaigns, 
for communities and other stakeholders.
Part B:
Forestry Sector Institutional and Policy Reform
Provision of technical assistance and training (including workshops), as 
required: 
(a)
to develop and implement a participatory process in the preparation and 
implementation of the Borrower’s forestry policies and procedures; 
(b)
to prepare, through the participatory process referred to in (a) above, a 
long term national policy for public, private and communal forestry development; 
(c)
to strengthen MAGFOR’s, INAFOR’s, MIFIC’s and CONADES’ capacity to 
develop and implement forestry sector policies, norms and procedures; and 
(d)
to prepare enabling legislation, and carry out related research, on 
forestry activities for carbon sequestration, and the marketing of environmental 
services.
Part C:
Subprojects 
Financing and carrying out of Sustainable Forestry Subprojects and Technology 
and Verification Subprojects.
Part D:
Project Administration
Upgrading and equipping of the PCU’s and SFIPO’s offices.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods and services for surveys, satellite imagery, aerial photography and 
communication campaigns estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works for Part D of the Project and for Subprojects estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully. 
4.
Direct Contracting 
Works for Subprojects and services for communication campaigns to be carried out 
in remote areas and costing $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
Page  11
(a)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods, works and other services 
procured pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2 and B.3 hereof, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for consulting firms, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications Services for the development of 
national standards for the certification of forestry products, and services under 
Subprojects by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  12
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Association’s prior approval.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $750,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the  Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed 
$1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
Page  13
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  14
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
