Page  1
November 30, 2001
His Excellency
Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:
Japanese Grant to assist in the Implementation of the Sustainable 
Forestry Investment Promotion Project - Grant No. TF026845
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association) to indicate 
the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding three hundred thousand U.S. Dollars (US$300,000) (the Grant) to the Republic 
of Nicaragua (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Association of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By____________________
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:
_____________________________
Authorized Representative
Name: Esteban Duque Estrada
Date: December 17, 2001
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the Sustainable 
Forestry Investment Promotion Project, which has as its main objective to improve the Recipient’s 
public and private sector local capacity in the forestry sector and develop alternatives to address long 
term forestry issues (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
provision of technical assistance and equipment to expand the public access and use of 
the Project’s information systems through: (i) improvement of the design and linkage of the Project’s 
Forestry Information System (SIFOR) to Nicaragua’s National Environmental Information System 
(SINIA); (ii) development of inter-institutional links between MARENA (as hereinafter defined) and 
MAG-FOR (as hereinafter defined); (iii) assessment of needed types of forestry and environmental 
information; and (iv) development of information management strategies within SINIA to increase 
access of rural communities (these Activities are estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent); and
(b) provision of technical assistance to improve public access to forestry and environmental 
information systems, including appropriate publicly accessible and culturally appropriate access to 
information, with special focus on indigenous communities and women (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.The Recipient, through its Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) in 
cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MAG-FOR), shall: (a) carry 
out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) 
from time to time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results 
of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the 
territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.
2.2.Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and 
goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
Page  3
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Item
(1) Consultants’ services 
(2) Goods
TOTAL
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, and the term “local expenditures” means any 
expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on 
account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b) No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after March 30, 2003 or such 
later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Association within four months after 
Page  4
the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by its 
Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably 
request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Association 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,00 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$30,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with 
the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to 
pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, 
for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
Page  5
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts 
are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the Association 
shall have been suspended.
6.2.The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the 
Association, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the 
Association has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in 
financing the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  6
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.1. of the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities described under paragraph 1.1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement (tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines) shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word “bids”, in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b) (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Page  8
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the eligible item, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible 
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
Page  9
