Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5734 
Operation Name 
Economic and Social Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General public 
administration sector (35%);General industry and trade sector 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P117000 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING AND INDUSTRY 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Industry 
Financial Complex, The Carenage 
St. George's 
Grenada 
Tel: (473) 440-2741/2 Fax: (473) 440-4115 
finance@gov.gd 
Date PID Prepared 
May 10, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 25, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
June 8, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
The proposed DPL/DPC would provide timely support to the Government of Grenada to manage the 
impact of the global economic crisis and to maintain and reinforce the implementation of the long-
term structural reform agenda.
 
The Grenadian Government developed a well articulated economic 
program in 2006 and the macroeconomic performance remained strong up until recently. However, along 
with the global economic crisis, the macroeconomic environment deteriorated sharply in Grenada. Given 
the high level of debt and limited fiscal space, Grenada is significantly constrained in adopting counter 
cyclical policies to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis and needs financial support while it 
adjusts to the worsening global environment and sustains and reinforces the implementation of the longer 
term reform agenda.
 
The design of the DPL/DPC reflects the Government’s program and fits within the framework of the 
Regional Partnership Strategy (RPS) for Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). Grenada
 
has 
been implementing a home-grown economic program since 2006. The Government’s current program 
aims at promoting sustained high economic growth, restoring fiscal and debt sustainability, reducing 
vulnerabilities, and alleviating poverty. The new RPS FY10-14, scheduled to be discussed by the Board 
on June 3, 2010, rests on two pillars (i) Building Resilience and (ii) Enhancing Competitiveness and 
Stimulating Sustainable Growth. The proposed DPL/DPC is viewed in the new RPS as the beginning of a 
multi-year engagement with Grenada. It also aims to create a policy platform for medium-term reforms to 
be supported by the Bank or other donors in the future. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
 
Page  2
The DPL/DPC contributes to Grenada’s longer term development objectives in ways, that include: (a) 
sound economic management that puts the public debt on a sustainable path; (b) a more effective and 
efficient public sector by improving public finances, containing wage bill pressures, and reinforcing 
public administration as well as civil service reforms; (c) a better targeted and affordable system of social 
assistance that protects the poor; (d) a better business environment through clearer rules for investment, 
trade facilitation and ease in creating and registering companies; and a more healthy financial sector 
through improved regulation and supervision. 
3. 
Preliminary description  
 
The DPL supports policies and reforms for improving macroeconomic and social conditions in Grenada. 
The overall goal of the program is to help the country manage the global crisis, while accelerating the 
structural transformation of the economy to improve public service delivery, enhance the country’s 
competitive position and better manage the inherent vulnerability of a small and open economy. It is 
organized around three pillars, consistent with the Government Program.  Consequently, the program 
supports core measures to help (a) improve public sector governance and economic management; (b) 
strengthen effectiveness and efficiency of social safety nets; and (d) promote financial sector stability and 
improve the business environment. 
 
The Government’s current program aims at promoting sustained high economic growth, restoring fiscal 
and debt sustainability, reducing vulnerabilities, alleviating poverty and advancing the nation’s social 
development’s agenda. The reform policies supported under this DPL are selective critical policy actions 
that contribute to the achievement of these longer term development objectives. Support to Government’s 
budget and external financing needs is critical for maintaining macroeconomic stability under the global 
economic crisis and assisting the Government to maintain its reform program which would assist in the 
recovery. Better regulation of banking and insurance sectors supports the soundness of the financial sector 
for mitigating the contagion risks from the ongoing global crisis. Improvements in governance and public 
sector service delivery contribute to reinforcing fiscal and debt sustainability and to laying the ground for 
enhanced competitiveness and growth. Improvements in the business environment contribute to 
promoting domestic and foreign investment—which is most needed for accelerated growth and increased 
diversification of economic activity. Increased short term public assistance contributes to mitigating the 
impact of the crisis on the poor and to preventing a potential rise in poverty as a significant portion of 
Grenada’s population is vulnerable to fall in poverty in case of a shock. Increased efficiency and 
effectiveness of the social safety nets contributes to better targeting of social assistance programs and 
efficient use of limited public resources. 
 
4. 
Environment Aspects  
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have effects on the environment, forests, or other 
natural resources. The supported reforms aim primarily at strengthening public financial management and 
budgetary discipline, improving private sector competitiveness, and protecting the poor. At the same time, 
Government has devised programs and policies to assess and manage potential adverse effects on the 
environment. Moreover, under the St. George’s Declaration of Principles for Environmental 
Sustainability, Grenada has committed to strengthening of national agencies with environmental 
responsibilities and full integration of national environmental priorities into institutional and legal 
frameworks that include specific provisions for enforcement and financing their implementation.  
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Page  3
Source:  
IDA 
SDR 2.3 million (US$ 3.5 million equivalent) 
IBRD US$4.5 
million 
 Total 
US$8 
million 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 458-5431 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
