Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4918 
Operation Name 
GD Economic and Social DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General public 
administration sector (35%);General industry and trade sector 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P117000 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Panning and Industry 
Date PID Prepared 
July 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 21, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 17, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
The proposed DPL would provide timely support to the Government of Grenada to manage the impact of the 
global economic crisis and to maintain and reinforce the implementation of the long-term structural reform 
agenda.
 
The Grenadian Government developed a well articulated economic program in 2006 and the 
macroeconomic performance remained strong up until recently. However, along with the global economic crisis, 
the macroeconomic environment deteriorated sharply in Grenada. Given the high level of debt and limited fiscal 
space, Grenada is significantly constrained in adopting counter cyclical policies to mitigate the impact of the 
global economic crisis and needs financial support while it adjusts to the worsening global environment and 
sustains and reinforces the implementation of the longer term reform agenda.
 
The design of the DPL reflects the government’s program and fits within the framework of the Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). Grenada
 
has been 
implementing a home-grown economic program since 2006. The government’s current program aims at 
promoting sustained high economic growth, restoring fiscal and debt sustainability, reducing vulnerabilities, and 
alleviating poverty. The Bank provides support to the sub-region’s development agenda under two main pillars as 
outlined in the OECS CAS: (a) stimulating growth and improving competitiveness, (b) reducing vulnerability and 
promoting social inclusion. Both the Base Case (IDA only) and the High Case (using IDA resources) contemplate 
a
possible DPL for Grenada.  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
 
The DPL contributes to Grenada’s longer term development objectives in ways, that include: (a) sound economic 
management that puts the public debt on a sustainable path; (b) a more effective and efficient public sector by 
improving public finances, containing wage bill pressures, and reinforcing public administration as well as civil 
service reforms; (c) a better targeted and affordable system of social assistance that protects the poor; (d) a better 
business environment through clearer rules for investment, trade facilitation and ease in creating and registering 
companies; and a more healthy financial sector through improved regulation and supervision. 
3. 
Preliminary description  
 
The DPL supports policies and reforms for improving macroeconomic and social conditions in Grenada. The 
overall goal of the program is to help the country manage the global crisis, while accelerating the structural 
transformation of the economy to improve public service delivery, enhance the country’s competitive position and 
Page  2
better manage the inherent vulnerability of a small and open economy. It is organized around four pillars, 
consistent with the Government Program.  Consequently, the program supports core measures to help (a) maintain 
an enabling macroeconomic framework; (b) improve public sector governance and economic management; (c) 
strengthen social safety nets; and (d) improve business environment and financial sector. 
 
T
he
government’s current program aims at promoting sustained high economic growth, restoring fiscal and debt 
sustainability, reducing vulnerabilities, alleviating poverty and advancing the nation’s social development’s 
agenda. The reform policies supported under this DPL are selective critical policy actions that contribute to the 
achievement of these longer term development objectives. Support to Government’s budget and external 
financing needs is critical for maintaining macroeconomic stability under the global economic crisis and assisting 
the Government to maintain its reform program which would assist in the recovery. Better regulation of banking 
and insurance sectors supports the soundness of the financial sector for mitigating the contagion risks from the 
ongoing global crisis. Improvements in governance and public sector service delivery contribute to reinforcing 
fiscal and debt sustainability and to laying the ground for enhanced competitiveness and growth. Improvements in 
the business environment contribute to promoting domestic and foreign investment—which is most needed for 
accelerated growth and increased diversification of economic activity. Increased short term public assistance 
contributes to mitigating the impact of the crisis on the poor and to preventing a potential rise in poverty as a 
significant portion of Grenada’s population is vulnerable to fall in poverty in case of a shock. Increased efficiency 
and effectiveness of the social safety nets contributes to better targeting of social assistance programs and efficient 
use of limited public resources. 
 
4. 
Environment Aspects  
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have effects on the environment, forests, or other natural 
resources.   
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
IDA 3.6 
[tbc] 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
4.4 [tbc] 
 
Total 
8    [tbc] 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 458-5431 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
