                                                                                                       94077
                                                                                                     April 16, 2012
Supporting Grenada’s Efforts to Ride Through the Crisis




 Reforms Underway, But Challenges Still Lie Ahead


Overview
The World Bank has worked with Grenada to help the country manage the impact of the recent
global economic slowdown, providing the government with a Development Policy Loan program
in support of a number of key structural reforms. In particular, the aim was to improve public
service delivery, enhance the country’s competitive position, and better manage the inherent
vulnerability of a small and open economy. While reforms are taking longer than initially
expected, the Bank is continuing to work with the government on this process and on
necessary next steps, as the impacts of the global economic crisis are far from over.


Challenge
Like most small Caribbean economies, Grenada is limited in
                                                                      More Results
its capacity to diversify production and exports, and is highly
vulnerable to economic shocks and natural disas ters. As a

                                                                      US$3.5
middle-income country, Grenada had not needed
international aid for several years. However, it had recently
accumulated a high debt overhang and was hit hard by the

                                                                      million
international financial crisis, particularly in its tourism sector,
which is of critical importance to the economy.   Overall,
Grenada was much more sensitive to external shocks than
                                                                      were provided by the
most other countries in the world, and had only limited               International Development
capacity to respond to economic downturns.                            Association



Approach
The World Bank’s approach was to focus policy support in
three key areas: 1) Improve public sector governance and
                                                                      US$4.5
                                                                      million
economic management by supporting reforms to increase the
efficiency of tax collection, improve public service delivery,
enhance debt management, reduce waste in the provision of
public services, and help cope with the adverse                     were contributed by the
                                                                    International Bank for
consequences of the global economic downturn; 2) Improve            Reconstruction and
the effectiveness and efficiency of social safety nets by           Development
supporting efforts to develop objective beneficiary selection
criteria and transparent targeting mechanisms, and to
prioritize social spending to vulnerable groups; 3) Promote financial sector stability and improve
the business environment through measures aimed at strengthening financial sector regulation,
mitigating regional contagion risks, promoting investments, and substantially lowering the
existing barriers to registering companies and properties.


Results
The government made substantial progress in its reform program, although implementation of
several measures was slower than expected due to weak implementation capacity in the public
sector. In particular, apart from the consolidation of payments of the three main cash transfer
programs, reform of the social protection safety net was slow. On the other hand, most targets
and objectives regarding financial sector stability and improvements in the business
environment were achieved, and the majority of measures or targets in public sector
management were achieved or at least partially achieved.


Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from implementation of this loan operation were: (i) A programmatic
approach, which supports a multi-stage program with a longer-term horizon, is superior to a
stand-alone, one-year program; (ii) In small states, policy based programs need to be relatively
simple and straightforward; and (iii) The Program Policy Matrix needs to be concise, with few
measures and outcome indicators that are clearly defined, critical for the performance of the
Program, and that are within control of the Government.


Bank Contribution
The International Development Association provided US$3.5 million and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development contributed US$4.5 million to the loan operation.


Moving Forward
Grenada’s government has expressed an interest in a follow-up policy loan, to support the next
stage of the reform process.  The next loan would also provide additional financing to the
country as the international financial crisis is far from over.  The request is now under
consideration.


Beneficiaries
By providing financial support during the economic crisis, the World Bank helped the
Grenadian government maintain critical social programs while at the same time providing
support for structural reforms that will benefit all Grenadian society, particularly the poor.
