Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: P7169 BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON ASSISTANCE TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURKINA FASO
UNDER TH HIPC DEBT INITIATIVE
AUGUST 13, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAC            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
AIDS             Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAMEG             State Purchasing Agency for Essential Generic Drugs
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
DSA               Debt Sustainability Analysis
HIPC             Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA              International Development Association
IMF              International Monetary Fund
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
Vice President                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                     Hasan A. Tuluy
Division Chief/Manager        Charles Humphreys
Staff Member                 Michele Guerard/Axel van Trotsenburg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ASSISTANCE TO BURKINA FASO UNDER
THE HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES DEBT INITIATIVE
Table of Contents
Page
Proposed Debt Relief .........................................................1
Completion Point Measures ..............................................2
Impact of Completion Point Measures ......................................... 2
IDA Assistance Strategy .........................................................4
The Proposed Structural and Social Development Performance Criteria .............   5
Objective of the Proposed Assistance ........................................... 5
Proposed Monitoring Criteria ..............................................5
Recommendation .........................................................7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON ASSISTANCE TO BURKINA FASO
UNDER THE HIPC INITIATIVE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the
assistance to be provided to Burkina Faso under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) Debt Initiative in respect of debt owed by it to the International Development
Association (IDA). This report and recommendation address: (i) the relief that is
proposed to be provided in respect of debt owed to IDA at the completion point; and (ii)
the structural and social development performance criteria that Burkina Faso would need
to have satisfied at the completion point in order for the assistance under the HIPC Debt
Initiative to be provided at that time.
2.    This document complements the paper entitled "Burkina Faso: Final Document
on the Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)" which is being circulated
in parallel to the Board. The final HIPC document reports on consultations with
creditors, provides an update on the status of the debt reconciliation process, and includes
the debt sustainability analysis that was jointly prepared by the Burkinabe authorities and
Bank and Fund staff. It also contains recommendations on: (i) Burkina Faso's eligibility
for assistance under the HIPC Debt Initiative; (ii) the timing of the decision point and the
completion point; (iii) the targets for the net present value (NPV) debt-to-export ratio and
the debt-service ratio at the completion point; (iv) envisaged debt relief from bilateral
creditors; (v) proposed actions by multilateral creditors to achieve the target NPV debt-to-
export ratio at the completion point; and (vi) key performance criteria for Burkina Faso
under the Initiative. It should be noted that the final HIPC document builds on the
Preliminary document (IDAlSecM97-95, 3/25/97) and should be read in conjunction with
this document.
PROPOSED DEBT RELIEF
3.    As set forth in the final HIPC document, to bring Burkina Faso's debt to the target
of a 210 percent of NPV debt-to-export ratio by the proposed completion date of
September 1999, the multilateral creditors' share of debt relief for Burkina Faso would
amnount to US$87 million in NPV terms, of which US$40 million would be provided on
debts owed to IDA. It is proposed that the Executive Directors approve, in principle, the
provision of relief in an amount having a net present value of US$40 million in respect of
debts owed by Burkina Faso to IDA, subject to confirmation of other multilateral
creditors that they will provide proportional relief on their claims. Relief on debts owed



2
to IDA would be provided through actions at the completion point, as described in the
following paragraphs.
Completion Point Measures
4.    The HIPC Trust Fund will be utilized to provide the required relief on debt owed
to IDA--equivalent to US$40 million in NPV terms. The I-IIPC Trust Fund will set aside,
at the decision point, an amount equal to the NPV reduction required on IDA debt from
resources transferred from IBRD to the World Bank component of the HIPC Trust Fund.
With these resources, the Trust Fund is expected, at the completion point, to purchase
IDA credits with a nominal value of approximately US$77 million. The nominal amount
of the credits to be purchased will be determined on the basis of the principles agreed
upon for calculating the NPV of debt in DSAs' and by selecting for purchase the oldest
IDA credits. The HIPC Trust Fund will then promptly cancel these IDA credits and
infonn the debtor that the debt is no longer due. The HIPC Trust Fund will enter into an
agreement to this effect with IDA as soon as possible following the decision point.
Impact of Completion Point Measures
5.    As indicated above, the relief to be provided with respect to IDA credits will
amount to the equivalent of approximately US$40 million in NPV terms, all of which
will be made available through the operation of the HIPC Trust Fund. The extent of
relief on the principal of IDA debt is illustrated in Chart 1.
6.    Total savings in debt service on these credits would amount to about US$85
million in nominal terms over their remaining life, of which US$77 million would be a
reduction of principal repayments and US$8 million would be reduced service charges.
For illustrative purposes, Chart 2 shows the impact of the debt relief on Burkina Faso's
debt service obligations to IDA between 1999 and 2010. During that period, the
reduction of Burkina Faso's debt service to IDA would average about US$3.6 million per
year or about 18 percent of debt service due to IDA.
£  The principles for the calculation were described in detail in SecM96-927 entitled "The HEPC Debt
Initiative-Elaboration of Key Features and Possible Procedural Steps", page 11.



3
Chart 1. IDA Debt Relief
(Estimate in millions of NPV and nominal US$)
100 
90 -                                                            NOMINAL
1  80 -                                                         $77 million
70
60 -F 
30 -l                     i     l                                i    _
20 -                   1      1|;1
Purchase of IDA creditsl/                  Purchase of IDA creditsll
1/ Assumes that the HIPC Trust Fund would purchase the oldest IDA credits.
Source: Staff estimates
Chart 2. lrnplications for IDA Debt Service through 2010
(Expressed as percentage reduction of debt service due)
3~00
0.0
_       m6o 20co 2B    2006   Z2007    2008    209  SD
Source: Staff estimates



4
IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
7.    Burkina Faso has established an extended adjustment track record under
successive programs supported by IDA and the IMF since 1991. Under these programs,
the Government of Burkina Faso has implemented a broad range of reforms which have
largely succeeded in their basic objective of redirecting the economy from a centralized to
a market-oriented mode, while restoring growth and a viable macro-economic position.
The stage is now set for a major effort to improve social conditions over the next decade.
Accordingly, the focus of the IDA country assistance strategy for Burkina Faso has
evolved over the years. Initially, the main objective was economic liberalization, along
with fiscal stabilization and, later-on managing the post-devaluation adjustment. In the
most recent CAS paper for Burkina Faso, which was discussed by the Board in 1996, the
focus shifted more towards social development.
8.    The main objective of the current IDA assistance strategy in Burkina Faso is to
support the Government in its goal to achieve sustainable development and poverty
reduction through faster economic growth and increased emphasis on human resource
development. Achieving this objective will involve actions along two fronts: (i)
continuing to increase income opportunities and productive capacity, including through
strengthening the role of the private sector; and (ii) accelerating social development
through increased allocations of public resources to the social sectors and more efficient
use of these resources; The 1996 CAS continues to place emphasis on the need for
Burkina Faso to open up to new opportunities, domestically, regionally and globally, and
to encourage private initiative to explore growth prospects in agriculture, mining and
services. But a crucial aim of the current strategy is to support a much more ambitious
stance in the social sectors.
9.    The IDA programn over the coming years will reflect this emphasis. It will support
more aggressive programs to increase the quality and accessibility of basic public
services, particularly in the poorest areas of the country. In collaboration with other
donors and NGOs, it will help the Government develop innovative approaches, and new
ways to deliver social services, including through decentralization and increased reliance
on local communities. Rural areas, in this process, will become the focal point of public
service delivery. The FY97-99 program for both lending and non-lending services
proposed in the CAS focuses almost entirely on health, education, agriculture, water and
rural infrastructure.
10.   Burkina Faso has been classified as a heavily indebted country. At the end of
1996, it had a total external debt of US$1.3 billion, with an NPV of debt service-to-export
ratio of 240 percent. The debt service ratio exceeded 20 percent until 1995, although it
has fallen since then as a result of the bilateral debt relief obtained in recent years. Most
of the external debt (about 85 percent) is owed to multilateral creditors. In developing
this prograun, the Government committed itself to ensuring that the funds released as a
result of the proposed debt relief would be used to strengthen its social development



5
programs. This theme has been sustained in the discussion of the HIPC Initiative and
provides the context for the social development indicators to be monitored under that
Initiative.
THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
Objective of the -Proposed Assistance
11.   With the proposed assistance, IDA would support the implementation of the
government's economic and social program as spelled out in the Policy Framework Paper
and provide, in conjunction with other creditors, special assistance that would allow
Burkina Faso to reach a sustainable debt position by the completion point.
Proposed Monitoring Criteria
12.   The delivery of debt relief at the completion point would be contingent on the
monitorable actions specified in the final HIPC document and on the additional actions
specified below. Before reaching the completion point, the Govemment would need to
make satisfactory progress in the implementation of the following:
(i) structural policy actions to be monitored under IDA and IMF-supported
programs, including:
* actions to be included in the proposed Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (AGSAC II), notably completing the liberalization of rice imports, the
restructuring of agricultural services and the reorganization of the cotton
sector;
* adoption and initial implementation of civil service reform;
* adoption of a comprehensive strategy for extending privatization to remaining
enterprises in the public sector, and initial application of this strategy to some
of the public utilities, notably telecommunications;
(ii) social programs that will be monitored in parallel by ongoing and planned
IDA projects. Specific actions to be undertaken by 1999 are described in
more detail in the final HIPC document along with the targeted outcomes (see
in particular Table 6, Social Development Performance Indicators). They will



6
be supported and monitored under the ongoing Health and Nutrition Project
and the Basic Education Project, currently under preparation. These actions
include:
- in the health sector,
* increase public spending for health care, from 10 percent of budgetary outlays
(including foreign financed expenditure) in 1996 to at least 11 percent in 1998
and 12 percent in 1999; allocate budgets to the decentralized health districts
and establish a minimum package of basic health services;
* prepare and pilot test plans for the direct hiring of health personnel at the
district level;
* adopt new governing statutes and reorganize the public drug purchasing
agency (CAMEG); progressively increase the availability of essential drugs to
local health facilities and the number of these facilities meeting minimum
staffing norms (3 agents), with a view to increasing their current low
utilization rates;
- accelerate immunization programs to meet targets for increased vaccination
coverage;
- in the education sector,
* increase public spending on basic education from 9 percent of budgetary
expenditure (including foreign financed expenditure) in 1996 to at least 11.5
percent in 1998 and 13 percent in 1999;
* start implementing the 10-year plan for the development of basic education,
with particular emphasis on increasing access to primary education in the
provinces with the lowest enrollment rates, with a view to meeting the plan's
targets for increased overall primary school enrollments and for a reduced
spread in enrollment rates between the provinces with the best and worst
enrollment rates;
* prepare and test pilot a plan for the direct hiring of primary school teachers at
the local community level;
* implement girls' education programs to increase girls' primary school
enrollment from 30 percent in 1996 to the target of 38 percent by 1999.
These criteria would be set out in more detail and agreed by Burkina Faso in the legal
agreement referred to in paragraph 13 below.



7
RECOMMENDATION
13.   Once Burkina Faso's other creditors have confirmed their agreement to provide
the debt relief envisioned in the final HIPC document, the Executive Directors will be so
informed and confirmation from the Executive Directors will be sought, on a no-
objection basis, of the actions approved by them in principle at this time. Following such
confirmation, IDA would enter into a legal agreement with Burkina Faso for the
provision of the agreed relief on debts owed to IDA, subject to satisfaction by Burkina
Faso of the conditions approved by the Executive Directors.
14.   I recommend that the Executive Directors approve, in principle, the
recommendation contained in the final HIPC document concerning the eligibility of
Burkina Faso for assistance under the HIPC Debt Initiative, the decision and completion
points for Burkina Faso, the NPV debt-to-export ratio and debt-service ratio to be
achieved at the completion point, the proposed actions by multilateral creditors to achieve
these targets and the performance criteria to be met by Burkina Faso.
15.   I further recommend that the Executive Directors approve, in principle, the
recommendations contained in this paper on the amount and manner of debt relief to be
provided in respect of debts owed by Burkina Faso, specifically the NPV debt reduction
on IDA debt through the HIPC Trust Fund, and the structural and social development
performance criteria that Burkina Faso would be required to satisfy at the completion
point in order to receive debt relief under the HIPC Debt Initiative.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By:
Gautam Kaji
Washington, D. C.
August 13, 1997






CONFIDENTIAL
THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND AND
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BURKINA FASO
Final Document on the Initiative for Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIIPC)
Prepared by the Staffs of the Fund and the IDA'
August 13, 1997
Contents
T.    Introduction ...................................... 3
II.    Summary of Debt Sustainability Analysis . ................................ 4
mH.   Burkina Faso's Track Record: Adherence to Bank- and
Fund-Supported Programs ......................................   6
IV.   Policy Reform and Conditionality ...................................... 8
A. Macroeconomic and Structural Reform Policies .........      ................ 8
B. SocialPolicies ...........                                                   11
V.    Debt Reconciliation and Debt Management Capacity .........       .............. 16
VI.   Consultations With Creditors .................................... 16
A. Multilateral Creditors .   .................................... 16
B. Bilateral Creditors ..............          ...................... 17
VII.  Debt Sustainability Targets and Debt Relief . ............................. 17
VIII. Issues for Discussion .19
Text Boxes
1.    Assumptions Used in the Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA).                     5
2.  Health and Basic Education Expenditures .12
'Approved by Paul A. Acquah and Saleh M. Nsouli (IMF), and Masood Ahmed and Hasan
Tuluy (IDA).



-2 -
Tables
1.    Long-Term Balance of Payments, 1993-2019 ............................ 21
2.    Main Structural Reforms Under IDA and Fund SAF and
ESAF-Supported Programs, 1991-96 ................ ................. 24
3.    Reforms Supported by IDA Adjustment Credits and Waivers ......    ........... 26
4.    SAF and ESAF Programs-Waivers and Status of Midterm Review and
Program Interruptions . ............................................ 27
5.    Key Structural Reforms Under IDA- and Fund-Supported Programs, 1997-99 .... 28
6.    Social Development Performance Indicators .............................. 29
7.    Nominal and Net Present Value (NPV) of Debt Outstanding, End-December 1996  30
8.    Assistance, Net Present Value (NPV) of Debt/Exports Targets
and Burden Sharing .31



- 3 -
L INTRODUCTION
1.    This paper presents an assessment of Burkina Faso's eligibility for assistance under the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. It summarizes the debt sustainability
analysis (DSA) discussed earlier by the Fund and IDA Boards, describes the policy reforms to
be pursued by Burkina Faso and monitored under Fund and IDA arrangements, and reports on
consultations with creditors and the status of the debt reconciliation process. The paper
proposes that the Boards of the Fund and the IDA take decisions regarding Burkina Faso's
qualification for assistance, its "decision" and "completion points," debt sustainability targets,
and the level of assistance to be provided by the Fund and the IDA to Burkina Faso, subject to
the commitments of bilateral and other multilateral creditors.
2.    During the Fund and IDA Boards discussions on the preliminary HIPC Initiative
documents,2 most Executive Directors agreed that Burkina Faso be considered eligible for
assistance under the HIPC Initiative. Their views were based on Burkina Faso's high level of
indebtedness and external vulnerability, its strong track record over an extended period of
time, its receipt of Paris Club debt relief in a stock-of-debt operation, and its status as an
ESAF-eligible and IDA-only country. Regarding the timing of the "decision point," Executive
Directors of the IDA and the Fund were in agreement that it could take place at the time of
approval of the second annual ESAF arrangement for Burkina Faso, expected in mid-1997.
Most Directors supported the staff recommendation of a target for the NPV of debt/export
ratio in the range of 205-225 percent, with a number of Directors favoring a target toward the
lower part of that range because of the considerable downside risk in the base case scenario.
3.    Regarding the possible "completion point," Directors emphasized the importance of
continued strong policy performance supported by the IDA and the Fund. Many Directors
supported a shortening of the interval between the "decision" and "completion" points to
mid-1999, conditioned on clear progress in structural reform, in particular completion of key
reforms in the area of civil service, public enterprise restructuring and privatization, and
liberalization of the agricultural sector. Some Directors did not see the case for an exceptional
shortening of the "completion point," and thought the "completion point" at mid-2000 was
appropriate, given Burkina Faso' s track record and the time needed to complete critical
structural and social reforms. Directors also stressed that the performance in improving social
indicators should be carefully monitored with World Bank assistance.
4.    The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents a brief summary of
the DSA highlighting the major assumptions and conclusions. Section III reviews Burkina
Faso's track record under Fund- and IDA-supported programs since 1991. Section IV
outlines the major structural reforms to be implemented under Fund- and IDA-supported
programs in 1997-99. Section V reports on the debt reconciliation and debt management
capacity. Section VI reviews consultations with Burkina Faso's creditors regarding their
2The preliminary document was issued in the Fund as EBS/97/5 1, 3/26/97, and in the IDA as
IDA/Sec M97-95, 3/25/97. Executive Board discussions on Burkina Faso's case were held in
the IDA on April 15, 1997, and in the Fund on April 17, 1997.



-4 -
commitments to deliver on the intended assistance by the "completion point." Section VII
presents the contributions of multilateral and bilateral creditors at an NPV of debt/export
target in the range of 200-220 percent, and with "completion points" in September 1999 and
September 2000. Section VIII presents staff recommendations and issues for discussion.
IL SUIMMARY OF DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS
5.    The long-term balance of payments prospects for Burkina Faso are described in detail
in the preliminary HIPC Initiative document for Burkina Faso (EBS/97/51, 3/26/97, and
IDA/Sec M97-95, 3/25/97). The main revisions are presented in the document requesting a
second annual arrangement under the ESAF (EBS/97/---, 8/--197). This section presents a
summary of the key assumptions and conclusions of the DSA.
6.    The baseline scenario for the DSA jointly prepared with the Burkina Faso authorities
assumes the continuation of adjustment policies, and a relatively favorable external environ-
ment. The main assumptions of the 20-year baseline scenario are shown in Box 1, and the
results in Table 1. The medium-term balance of payments projections presented in EBS/97/51
have been updated on the basis of the most recent information and the latest projections in the
World Economic Outlook (WEO). The changes reflect mainly (i) higher cotton exports in
CFA francs in the period 1997-99, on the basis of results for 1997 and higher acreage under
cultivation; (ii) some adjustments in the estimate of workers' remittances and private transfers;
(iii) higher external assistance for project financing now expected for 1997 and 1998, with
related upward revisions of imports for capital equipment and intermediary products; and
(iv) downward revisions for other exports for 1997-98 (gold, livestock products). As a result,
total exports in CFA franc terms have been revised upwards by 9 percent on average for the
1997-99 period, and by 4 percent in 2000; export projections beyond 2000 are broadly
unchanged. These changes have resulted in a higher projected current account deficit,
excluding official transfers (by about 0.8 percent of GDP on average in 1999-2000); however,
because of larger-than-expected project-related grants, the overall balance of payments in the
period 1998-2000 is now expected to be close to balance, compared with a deficit previously
projected.



-5-
Box 1. Assumptions Used in the Debt Sustainability Analysis (DSA)
*      An annual average real GDP growth rate of 5.5 percent to the year 2000 and 5.7 percent thereafter.
Nominal per capita GDP rises from US$220 in 1996 to US$605 in 2019.
*      Export volume growth rate of 10-11 percent a year through 2000 and about 8 percent a year thereafter
through 2019.
*      Strong cotton export volume growth through 2000 (13 percent a year, on average), related to more
favorable incentives for producers, and improved extension services; thereafter cotton export volume
should grow at a slower pace (9 percent a year, on average).
*      Strong gold exports (10 percent a year, on average, in volume terms), in light of renewed interest by
foreign mining firms.
*      Growth of imports of goods and nonfactor services at about 6 percent a year, on average, over the long
term; the income elasticity of imports is assumed to rise gradually and approach 1.1 in the long term.
*      Private transfers, including workers' remnittances, will continue to be a significant factor in the current
account balance, and are expected to grow in line with GDP.
*      Continued inflow of project loans through 2019, although recourse to foreign borrowing on
concessional terms is assumed to decline gradually from current levels; the share of the investment
program externally financed is assumed to decline from the equivalent of 10 percent of GDP in 1996 to
7 percent in 2005 and 5 percent in 2019, with the share of grants declining from 59 percent in 1996 to
50 percent in 2005. Government investment will remain broadly stable at about 10 percent of GDP up
to 2005, and decline thereafter to about 8 percent a year through 2019. Balance of payments support is
assumed to be eliminated by 1999; all new borrowing is assumed to remain on highly concessional
terms.
*      The majority of new borrowing (about 80 percent) is assumed to be on IDA terms, while the remaining
borrowing is assumed at 2 percent interest and 20 years maturity.
*      Following the stock-of-debt operation with the Paris Club in June 1996, the debt service projections
assume that non-Paris club bilateral creditors restructure all eligible debt on terms comparable to
Naples terms.
7.     The main conclusion of the DSA is that the overall balance of paymnents would record
small deficits in the period 2000-2004, and surpluses thereafter; imputed gross international
reserves would decline as a ratio to imports through the year 2006, when they would amount
to 3 months of imports, but they would increase thereafter gradually to 4.8 months of imports
by 2019. The economy would become more diversified over time, but cotton would remain
the main export crop. As regards debt indicators, the NPV of debt/export ratio (with exports
calculated as a three-year average) would rise from 241 percent in 1996 and 237 percent in
1997 to 243 percent in 1998, and decline thereafter to 238 percent in 1999; it will not fall
below 200 percent until 2005. These ratios for 1996-99 are moderately lower than those



- 6 -
estimated in EBS/97/5 1. The revisions are due to the assessment of the staff and the authori-
ties, during the June 1997 joint Bank-Fund mission, that the stock of debt at end-1996 is
lower than previously estimated; this is based on data reconciled with creditors and reflects
more accurate figures of disbursements on loans already committed. The ratio is also affected
by some revisions of export data. The debt service ratio (after rescheduling) would decline
from 22.9 percent in 1995 to 14.5 percent in 1998, and 14.1 percent in 1999. As a share of
fiscal revenue, the debt-service ratio would decline from 25.2 percent in 1995 to 15 percent in
1999.
8.    The vulnerability analysis undertaken in the preliminary HIPC document for Burkina
Faso remains valid. In summary, the analysis concluded that there was considerable downside
risk to the baseline scenario; in particular there was above average vulnerability to external
shocks on the export side, notably because of the difficult climatic conditions. On the other
hand, Burkina Faso fared somewhat better than a group of reference countries with respect to
the fiscal burden of debt and the NPV of debt-to-GDP ratio. The existence of workers'
remittances also provides some comfort against shocks. It should be noted, however, that
Burkina Faso is among the poorest countries in the reference group.3
HI, BURKiNA FASO'S TRACK EcORD:
ADHERENCE TO BANK- AND FuND-SUPPORTED PROGRAmS
9.    Burkina Faso has established an extended adjustment track record under successive
programs supported by the Bank and the Fund since 1991. These programs were supported by
the first annual arrangement under the Fund's Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) during
1991-92, a three-year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
approved on March 31, 1993 for an amount equivalent to 110 percent of quota, and an
additional three-year arrangement under the ESAF approved on June 14, 1996, for an amount
equivalent to 90 percent of quota. Under these arrangements (including disbursements under
the first annual arrangement under the current ESAF arrangement), resources totaling
SDR 62.5 million (US$90 million) have been disbursed by the Fund. A request for a second
annual arrangement under the current ESAF arrangement will be considered by the Fund
shortly. Over the same period, the IDA has approved, in addition to project support, a
Structural Adjustment Credit, an Economic Recovery Credit, an Agricultural Sector Adjust-
ment Credit, and a Transport Sector Adjustment Credit. A Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit will be negotiated shortly. Disbursements from the adjustment operations
have totaled US$155 million. Since 1991, the IDA has committed an additional
US$280 million for 14 investment operations, of which US$112 million has been disbursed.
10.   Under these programs, the Government of Burkina Faso implemented a broad range of
reforms which have largely succeeded in their basic objective of redirecting the economy from
a centralized to a market-oriented mode, and of restoring a viable macroeconomic position
3For a discussion, see EBS/97/5 1, paras 19-28.



- 7 -
and laying the basis for a major effort to improve social conditions over the coming years
(Table 2). Key elements of the reform program have been the strengthening of the fiscal
position and the wide-ranging liberalization and deregulation of production and trade in most
sectors, including, in particular, agriculture. A program to privatize public enterprises,
launched in 1991, encountered substantial delays but is now gathering momentum. Banking
sector reforms have essentially succeeded in disentangling the close links between state-owned
banks and state enterprises which had been undermining fiscal balance and economic effi-
ciency. Substantial progress was made in the management of public expenditure, with
increasing amounts allocated to the improvement of basic health and education services. Civil
service reform remains on the agenda, along with a more determined effort to streamline the
regulatory environment for unfettered private sector development.
11.   Despite firm government commitment to the reforms at the start of the program,
internal politics intervened during a transition period to a representative democratic regime,
throwing the program off track in early 1992. The adjustment program resumed in earnest in
1993, and was further strengthened following the 1994 CFA franc devaluation. Implementa-
tion of IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit suffered significant delays in the early 1990s, as a
result of the unsettled political climate. The credit was fully drawn but closed nearly two years
behind schedule; no waivers were required, however, as all conditions were eventually fully
met. A waiver was required in 1995 in the case of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit,
because of protracted delays in the implementation of the agreed privatization of the state rice
mill and the liquidation of the already defunct agricultural price stabilization fund. A technical
waiver was granted in 1996 for the release of the second tranche of the Transport Sector
Adjustment Credit, as the government substituted actions different from, but going well
beyond, the objectives of the original conditionality (privatization instead of merely restructur-
ing of the state railways). Third tranche release of this credit has been delayed by uncertainties
beyond the control of the government in resolving regional market issues affecting the agreed
privatization of Air Burkina (see Table 3).
12.   During the five years of SAF/ESAF arrangements, Burkina Faso required one waiver
and experienced one program interruption-defined as a gap of six months or more between
the end of an annual arrangement and Board approval of the subsequent arrangement-{see
Table 4). The interruption was between the completion of the first SAF-supported program
(March 1992) and the first program supported by the ESAF arrangements (March 1993), and
was due to the political democratization process, which diverted attention from structural
reforms. Under the first annual ESAF arrangement for 1993, the midterm review could not be
completed because of slippages in the fiscal front. Under the following three annual ESAF
arrangements for 1994, 1995, and 1996-97, the reviews were completed and the loans under
each of the arrangements were fully disbursed. The performance criterion on net credit to
government and on the reduction in external arrears at end-June 1994 were not met because
of revenue shortfall in the first half of the year, accompanied by delays in external adjustment
assistance. As the authorities took appropriate corrective actions, waivers were granted by the
Executive Board; for 1994 as a whole, the corrective actions were adequate, with the result
that the fiscal deficit was contained to below the revised program target. However, a shortfall
of nearly one third in external assistance persisted during the year, with the result that not all
nonreschedulable arrears were cleared.



- 8 -
IV. POLICY REFORM AND CONDITIONALITY
13.   The current three-year ESAF arrangement was approved in June 1996 in support of a
program of policy reforms covering the years 1996-99, and the request for the second annual
arrangement thereunder is scheduled to be discussed by the IMF Executive Board on
September 8, 1997. In addition, a second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC II)
is scheduled to be negotiated with the IDA in the fall of 1997. For a "completion point" in
September 1999, Burkina Faso would need to (i) successfully cornplete the midterm review
under the third annual arrangement under the new three-year ESAF arrangement and make
satisfactory progress on key structural reforms supported by the proposed AGSAC II; and
(ii) observe the social development targets as envisaged under the ongoing WDA-supported
operations in health and education, and the proposed Basic Education Project . In the event
the "completion point" were to be set for September 2000, conditionality would also include
the successful completion of a possible additional annual arrangement under the ESAF.
14.   The following paragraphs highlight selected structural and social sector reforms,
particularly monitorable actions between the "decision" and "completion" points. Burkina
Faso's ongoing reform strategy aims to raise the income level of the population and to foster
the development of human resources and productive potential. The major objectives of this
strategy from now to the year 2005 are to increase per capita GDP by at least 3 percent a
year, and to improve substantially the education and health standards, as specified below in
paras. 22-34. In order to achieve the long-term GDP growth objective, a sustained effort will
have to be made in the near term to raise investment and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. To that effect, financial policies will be implemented and structural reforms in the
following areas will be accelerated and substantially completed during the period of the
current three-year ESAF arrangement: tax and budgetary management, civil service, privatiza-
tion and restructuring of public enterprises, financial sector, agriculture, and health and
education. Tables 5 and 6 provide a summary of these reforms and their timing to be moni-
tored under the current three-year ESAF arrangement and the ongoing and proposed IDA
credits for the period 1997-99.
A. Macroeconomic and Structural Reformi Policies
15.  In relation to fiscal reform, appreciable results were achieved in recent years in
simplifying the tax regime, streamlining expenditure management and improving tax adminis-
tration. The budget law for 1997 reduced the rate of the corporate income tax from
45 percent to 40 percent (see Table 1 and EBS/96/85); the rate of value-added tax (VAT) was
raised from 15 percent to 18 percent effective October 1996; and the current expenditure
cycle (from commitment to actual spending), except for wages, was computerized in 1996,
thereby reducing considerably the possibility of involuntary accumulation of domestic arrears.
The major tax reform to be implemented during the remaining period of the current ESAF will



-9 -
be the adoption of the common external tariff of the WAEMU, on January 1, 1998. The
expected reduction in tariff rates is likely to lead, at least in the short run, to substantial
revenue losses. To offset some of these losses, the authorities are determined to accelerate the
implementation of structural measures aimed to broaden the tax base and further strengthen
tax administration. To that effect, the computerization of tax revenue collection will be
completed before the end of 1998, while tax and customs duty exemptions will be further
curtailed, in accordance with the policy being prepared by the WAEMU, in particular in
relation to the envisaged regional harmonization of the investment code. The computerization
of the expenditure procedures will be completed by end-1997 with efforts concentrated on
wage expenditure and public investment. Comprehensive reviews of the public investment
program will be resumed and conducted on an annual basis, the first one being scheduled for
October 1997, as part of the broader public expenditure review process.
16.   Progress on civil service reform has been slower than anticipated in the face of strong
opposition from unions and parliament. Government proposals, introduced in 1996, which
entailed the replacement of the current system of automatic advancement by a system based
on merit was rejected by parliament, which requested that the proposal be recast and included
in a more comprehensive reform package. The work on a new proposal is now complete and
the authorities intend, following a national conference in September 1997, to present it to
parliament before the end of 1997. The reform will include a revision of the statutes concern-
ing permanent and contractual employees, and a merit-based promotion system. More reliance
will be placed on hiring contractual employees so as to improve flexibility in personnel
allocation, including regional distribution. This reform should help contain the wage bill to
under 5 percent of GDP, despite significant recruitment in the social sectors, while increasing
incentives to civil servants. The authorities have already retrenched in early 1997 some
800 civil service staff by closing the Regional Agricultural Promotion Centers (CRPPAs),
whose functions are being transferred to private operators. This retrenchment partly offsets
new recruitment in the priority sectors of health and education, which are necessary to achieve
the planned increases in social standards. The civil service reform will also lead to a review of
the size and functions of the central government, in light of the decentralization program.
Public enterprises and privatization
17.   The implementation of the privatization program, which has been lagging behind
schedule, should be brought back on track over the next few months. A strengthening of the
existing institutional framework for privatization operations and a streamlining of the decision
making process for carrying out the program are now under way, which will make it possible
to move quickly on a large number of pending operations. A first phase of privatization or
liquidation started in 1991 and involved 22 enterprises out of 76 in the government portfolio.
16 enterprises were privatized, 4 were being liquidated, and for two the feasibility studies on
the strategy to be pursued (sale or liquidation) are under way. A second phase of privatization
4 The structure of tariff rates is still in discussion at the level of the WAEMU. In this
connection, the Burkinabe authorities have sought the technical assistance of the Fund to help
them implement the new tariff structure that will be decided at the level of the Union.



- 10 -
started in July 1994, and involves 19 enterprises, of which 3 have been privatized, 6 are under
liquidation, and 10 will be brought to the point of sale before end-March 1998.5 Among the
latter, a number of major enterprises, including the state rice (SONACOR), sugar (SOSUCO),
and textile (FASO FANI) companies, will be offered for sale by end-December 1997.
Following the two privatization phases, the government now needs to take stock of the
residual equity holdings in its portfolio, and will develop, with the assistance of the World
Bank, by June 1998 a comprehensive strategy for dealing with the remaining enterprises, in
the framework of its overall objective of fostering private sector development. Privatization
would subsequently be broadened to some of the public utilities, possibly starting with the
telecommunications sector.
Business environment for the private sector
18.   To accelerate economic growth, it is essential that more be done to foster the
development of private sector activity, in particular by improving the business environment.
The authorities intend to tackle this challenge at various levels. Above all, the government is
committed to be attentive to the views of the private sector and, as a first step, will hold a
national workshop in October 1997 to seek the sector's views on the assistance needed to
promote its activities and the improvements to be made in the business environment. At the
same time, the government will improve the effectiveness of the Center for Business Promo-
tion (one-stop window for investors and business promoters), and will begin to implement the
recommendations of this Center for streamlining administrative and regulatory procedures by
October 1997. The authorities will also improve the legal environment, both through the
adoption of the new business code and the regulations designed by the OHADA (organization
for harmonizing business law in Africa), and by strengthening the judicial system through the
training and hiring of additional magistrates and other personnel, and a more intensive use of
computers in the tribunals. Also, the system of bank guarantees will be made more rigorous,
thereby providing a safer environment for increased banking activity.
Financial sector
19.   Considerable progress was achieved in recent years in bringing the financial sector to
a more sound financial footing. Recent developments include the liquidation of the BND-B in
January 1997 and the privatization of the BFCI in early 1997, following negotiations with an
international private group that took up 51 percent of the capital. Moreover, a new private
bank began operation in early 1997 and another is expected to do so later this year. The major
tasks ahead in the area of financial reform, which the authorities intend to undertake during
the period of the current three-year ESAF arrangement, will be to strengthen the network of
private savings and loans cooperatives and to restructure the postal checking and savings
system (CCP-CNE). In view of the difficulties experienced by some private cooperatives,
5The enterprises that are being offered for sale and for which no buyer can be found will be
liquidated. It should be noted that some of the enterprises that are being put up for sale are in
a difficult financial situation or have stopped operations altogether, and are thus unlikely to
find a buyer.



- 11 -
which play an essential role in small project finance, the government has decided to move
forward with a comprehensive financial audit of these institutions. With respect to the CCP-
CNE, it will complete a restructuring study by the end of 1997 and an action plan will be
adopted and implemented in 1998.
Agricultural policy reform
20.   Progress in implementing the agricultural policy agenda set in the early 1990s is
nearing completion. The liberalization of trade and prices in agricultural markets is now
virtually complete. Regulation of the rice and sugar markets, maintained for several years
after the rest of the agricultural sector had been liberalized, was eliminated in 1996, along with
the state import monopolies for these two commodities. The state-owned rice and sugar mills
are being privatized, and the state rice import company, shorn of its monopoly privileges, is
rapidly losing market share to more competitive private operators. The restructuring of the
cotton sector is still under way, though improved producer incentives and more efficient
extension services have already led to a strong supply response. Further benefits are expected
from plans to continue improving the performance of the cotton marketing and ginning
company, strengthen the influence of farmers' cooperatives on its management and policies,
and ensure that producer prices remain closely linked to world market prices for cotton fiber.
Along with the deregulation of product markets and the divestiture of key public enterprises in
the agricultural sector, the government is also reorganizing its own services in the sector. It
has initiated a set of reforms involving the withdrawal of the state from a series of economic
activities in production, input supply, veterinary services, etc., which are better left to the
private sector, in order to strengthen its research and extension services in support of farmers.
It will also focus on a rationalization of the public investment program in agriculture, in the
context of a broad growth strategy framework to be developed in 1998.
B. Social Policies
21.   Poverty remains widespread in Burkina Faso, with 45 percent of the population
estimated to be under the poverty threshold. Debt relief obtained under the HIPC Initiative
could support the government's poverty reduction objectives by releasing budgetary funds
used for debt service for higher public spending in priority areas. The government's top
priority is the improvement of basic services in health and education, where coverage and
quality remain very modest, notwithstanding efforts in recent years to raise budgetary
expenditure for health and primary education (including foreign financed spending) (see
Table 2). In per capita terms, this expenditure currently amounts to roughly $5 annually in
each sector or about the same amount as external debt service per capita. Thus every dollar
saved on external debt service per capita could mean a 20 percent increase in per capita
expenditure on either health or primary schooling.



- 12 -
Box 2. Health and Basic Education Expenditures
1993         1994          1995          1996         1997
(Est.)       (Proj.)
(In percent of total budgetary expenditure)
Health                      7.9           9.0           7.3          10.3          10.5
Of which: current
expenditure             (4.8)         (4.5)        (5.1)         (4.9)         (5.1)
Basic education             8.4           9.2           8.7           8.8          10.1
Ofwhich: current
expenditure             (5.9)         (5.4)         (6.2)        (6.2)         (6.2)
(In percent of GDP)
Health                       1.8          2.0           1.5           2.2          2.2
Basic education              1.9          2.0           1.8           1.9          2.1
(Per capita expenditure in US$)
Health                      5.2           3.6           3.4           5.0          5.0
Basic education             5.5           3.7           4.1           4.4          4.9
Source: Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Note: Includes foreign-financed expenditure.
Health
22.    Health indicators in Burkina Faso are poor, even by sub-Saharan standards, and the
low health status of the population remains a major constraint to economic and social
development. To reverse this situation, the government is reorganizing basic health services
on a decentralized model, with some 700 local primary care centers (CSPS) grouped into 53
health districts. The task of decentralizing Burkina Faso's previously highly centralized health
system has not been easy and much remains to be done to improve the operation of the health
districts. The levels of utilization of peripheral health facilities, although they are improving,
remain very low, particularly in rural areas and in the poorest provinces, reflecting perceptions
of poor service quality, including insufficient availability of personnel and supplies.



- 13 -
23.   Overcoming these problems will require far-reaching and complex reforms in the way
public health services operate, as well as increased financial resources. The government has
already increased the share of expenditure on health in total budgetary outlays (including
foreign-financed expenditures) from 7 percent in 1995 to more than 10 percent since 1996.
The need is now to revise intrasectoral allocations and ensure that a larger share of the public
sector health budget goes to the decentralized health care facilities to make them more
effective. Full autonomy at the local level is a long-term objective. As a first step, health
budgets will be established at the district level, beginning in 1998, within the framework of a
minimum package of health care services, which will be defined in 1998. Financial manage-
ment capacity will be strengthened in parallel, to ensure that health districts can exercise
effective control over their budgetary allotments.
24.   The overall shortage of health personnel and large regional disparities in staff availabil-
ities can only be addressed over time. Redeployment of existing staff is taking place, to the
extent possible, and a steady pace of recruitments (400 a year) will ensure that minimum
staffing norms are met in all CSPS by the year 2000. In addition, the government is preparing
a plan to recruit health personnel directly at the district level, which is the only way decentral-
ized health services will be able to keep abreast of the needs of a rapidly growing population.
Similarly, training and supervision programs will be expanded to support the decentralization
process.
25.   The government has already made substantial progress in promoting the use of
essential generic drugs. These drugs were almost nonexistent in Burkina Faso a few years ago,
but now account for more than 50 percent of total drug imports in volume terms. Much
remains to be done, however, to improve procurement and distribution of drugs throughout
the country. To that effect, the authorities will reorganize the public drug purchasing agency
(CAMEG) by the end of 1997, so as to enhance its ability to provide adequate and reliable
supplies to the CSPS. The private sector will also be encouraged to participate more actively
in the marketing of generic drugs.
26.   Child vaccination coverage is another area where Burkina Faso has been lagging
behind. Under its Expanded Program of Immunization, the government's objective is to
achieve, the following vaccination coverages for infants (0-11 months) by 1999: 85 percent
for BCG, 75 percent for DTC/polio, and 80 percent for measles and yellow fever. To achieve
these results, the government will improve the vaccine supply, infrastructure and logistics of
the CSPS, strengthen their outreach programs, and step up public information and community
relations efforts. Immunization services will be increasingly integrated into routine primary
care in order to ensure their sustainability over the long term.
Education
27.   Considerable progress has been made in recent years to raise school enrollments, but
educational levels in Burkina Faso are still very low, and the illiteracy rate remains one of the
highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Universal primary education is still a distant goal. The gross
primary school enrollment rate was only about 40 percent in 1996 (30 percent for girls).
Access to primary school remains limited and unequal between the regions (primary enroll-



- 14 -
ment rates are below 25 percent in ten of the poorest provinces). The quality of primary
education is also low, for a number of reasons, including large classes (as many as 100 to
120 pupils per class in some urban schools), poor teacher qualifications (only about one-third
of primary school teachers are certified), lack of teaching materials and inappropriate
curricula. Not surprisingly, therefore, repetition rates are high and it takes about 12 student-
years, on average, to produce a primary school graduate.
28.   For all its deficiencies, the present situation reflects the continuing efforts of the
government in recent years to work off an enormous backlog of unmet needs in primary
education, while trying to keep up with a school age population growing by over 3 percent a
year. Thanks in part to the assistance provided by donors, many classrooms were built or
renovated. At the same time, teacher recruitment and training was accelerated, and new
pedagogical practices introduced, such as double shifts and multigrade classes, to increase the
educational leverage of existing infrastructure and staff resources. The share of expenditure on
basic education in total budgetary allocations (including foreign financed spending) was
increased from 8.7 percent in 1995 to 10.1 percent in 1997. Also, basic education (primary
education and adult literacy programs) will be allotted a larger share of the total education
budget than in the past, in accordance with the government's intrasectoral priorities.
29.   In view of the magnitude of the task ahead, the government is formulating a more
radical strategy for accelerating the development of basic education, and getting ready to
implement an ambitious 10-year plan which aims to address the issues of coverage, equity and
quality of primary education in an integrated fashion. A key objective of the 10-year plan is to
raise the gross primary school enrollment rate from 40 percent in 1996 to 70 percent by
2007-08, while nearly closing the gap in girls' enrollments and greatly reducing regional
disparities. A new program of school construction is under preparation, with particular
emphasis on the provinces with the lowest enrollment rates.
30.   To staff all these schools under the present civil service rules, which also apply to
school teachers, would be prohibitively expensive and largely inefficient. The government
plans instead to put in place a more flexible system which will allow local communities to hire
new teachers directly on a contractual basis. Implementation of this plan is expected to begin,
on a pilot basis, in October 1998. It would be generalized in the broader context of adminis-
trative decentralization, under which it is expected that local co:mmunities will obtain a greater
share of autonomy in the management and financing of primary schools.
31.   The 1 0-year plan also aims to increase the quality and efficiency of primary education,
along with its relevance. This will be achieved through measures designed to increase the
availability of books and other teaching materials, strengthen teacher training and supervision,
cut down on class size and revise school curricula. Reduced repetition rates and increased
productivity, the generalization of double shifts and multigrade classes and the redeployment
of excess administrative personnel into teaching positions, shou]ld also contribute to additional
increases in the capacity of primary schools to receive new entrants (over and above the
substantial capacity increase from the new school construction program). Private schools and
the NGO community will also be encouraged to contribute on a greater scale to the expansion
of primary education rolls. Finally, efforts to increase adult literacy will be stepped up,



- 15 -
particularly with respect to women and in the poorest provinces, which would also help raise
girls' school enrollment rates, as well as overall enrollment rates in the areas where they are
currently the lowest.
32.   While a number of these measures will take time to translate into measurable out-
comes, particularly with respect to quality improvement and girls' education, the accelerated
expansion in the capacity of the primary school system will immediately be reflected in higher
gross enrollment ratios, which should rise by about 2.5 percentage points annually over the
next few years. Perhaps the most telling measure of the potential impact of the 10-year plan
on the spread of primary education in Burkina Faso is that, because of it, 40,000 more
children each year will be able to start on their first year of primary school and move towards
a life of literacy.
33.   Table 6 summarizes the social development performance indicators to be monitored in
the context of the HIPC Initiative. Social sector performance will be monitored by ongoing
and new IDA projects. In the health sector, performance will be monitored in particular under
the ongoing Health and Nutrition Project. This project will be restructured to provide more
effective support to the decentralization process after a workshop to be held in the fall of 1997
in collaboration with the government and the main donors active in the development of the
health sector. In the education sector, progress will be monitored under the on-going
Education IV and Post-Primary Education Projects, and particularly under the Basic Educa-
tion Project currently under preparation, which will support the implementation of the
government's 10-year plan.
34.   In the context of the HIPC Initiative, specific actions to be undertaken by 1999
include:
-     increase public spending for primary health care and basic education;
*     allocate budgets to the health districts in amounts sufficient to implement a
minimum package of basic health services;
*     prepare a plan to recruit health personnel directly at the level of the district;
*     reorganize CAMEG and ensure adequate supplies of essential generic drugs to
local health facilities;
*     accelerate implementation of the Expanded Program of Immunization;
*     implement the school construction program of the 10-year plan for the
development of basic education, and pilot test a plan for the direct hiring of
primary school teachers by local communities;
*     step up programs to promote girls' education and adult literacy campaigns for
women.



- 16 -
V. DEBT RECONCILIATION AND DEBT MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
35.   Burkina Faso has formally contacted its creditors regarding the reconciliation of its
external debt and has now reconciled with them close to 95 percent of the total debt stock
outstanding as at end-December 1996. The reconciliation of debt with the IMF, IDA, and
other multilateral creditors, as well as Paris Club creditors, has been completed. Reconciliation
is also complete for some of the non-Paris Club creditors (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Libya).
Debt with China, C6te d'Ivoire, Russia, and Algeria remains to be reconciled. Given that most
of Burkina Faso's debt has been fully reconciled ahead of the proposed "decision point," it is
recommended that the Executive Boards of the IDA and the Fund approve in principle their
commitment at the decision point of September 1997, subject to satisfactory assurances of
actions by other creditors. Other multilateral creditors would be expected to reduce the NPV
of their outstanding claims by the common percentage recommended for all multilaterals by
the Boards; this percentage reduction would be applied to fully reconciled debt. The exercise
of debt reconciliation is expected to be completed by mid-1998.
36.   Burkina Faso's debt monitoring system provides a comprehensive accounting of
external loans on a loan by loan basis. However, the system suffers from a lack of accurate
information on disbursements. The computerization of public investment expenditures,
including foreign-financed expenditures, which is expected to be in place by December 1997,
should greatly facilitate the maintenance of an up-to-date data base for monitoring purposes.
The government has also established in 1996 a Public Debt Committee to coordinate debt
management at the operational and policy level. The authorities are currently assessing their
needs for capacity building in this area with a view to requesting technical assistance in
implementing a fully computerized system and timely recording all transactions related to
external indebtedness.
VI. CONSULTATION WITH CREDITORS
37.   Fund and IDA staff have initiated consultations with Burkina Faso's multilateral
creditors and with the Paris Club regarding action they would take under the HIPC Initiative
for Burkina Faso. The IDA organized a meeting attended by Fund staff on March 24-25,
1997 with multilateral development banks to go over the methodology, data, and recommen-
dations for the first group of country DSAs, including Burkina Faso.
A. Multilateral Creditors
38.  In general, multilateral creditors were very supportive of assistance to Burkina Faso
under the Initiative, and endorsed Burkina Faso' s eligibility under the Initiative, a low debt
target, a "decision point" in mid-1997, and an early "completion point." Their main comment
on the preliminary HIPC document was that in the future such documents should pay more
attention to poverty reduction and that the social indicators should be designed clearly and
should target improvement over the adjustment period. While indicating willingness to commit



- 17 -
in principle by the mid-1997 "decision point" date, some of them (for example, the European
Union) indicated that their procedures would imply that formal commitment of their assistance
was expected shortly after mid-1997.
B. Bilateral Creditors
39.   At their meeting in May 1997, Paris Club creditors agreed in principle to reopen at the
"completion point" Burkina Faso's June 1996 stock-of-debt operation, and apply an additional
NPV reduction in the debt covered, with the exact treatment determined in the light of fair
burden sharing.
40.   The authorities are in the process of resolving issues with non-Paris Club creditors,
and obtaining debt relief on terms comparable to Naples terms. The debt involved amounts to
US$140 million (11 percent of total nominal debt as of end-December 1996).
VII. DEBT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS AND DEBT RELIEF
41.   Burkina Faso's NPV of debt stood at US$683 million at end-December 1996, of
which 80.5 percent constituted multilateral debt (Table 7). The NPV of debt is projected to
rise to US$721 million by end-1997 and to US$775 million by end-1998, with a modest
increase in the share of multilateral debt. Table 7 also shows a detailed breakdown within each
creditor group of the claims of Burkina Faso's individual multilateral creditors in the estimated
NPV of debt at the "decision point," as this would determine the breakdown of multilateral
assistance at the "completion point." As noted earlier, some of these totals are provisional,
subject to the finalization of the debt reconciliation exercise.
42.   During the IDA and Fund Board discussions on the preliminary HIPC Initiative
document, there was considerable support for the staff recommendations of a target for the
NPV of debt to export ratios in the range of 205-225; many Directors considered that given
Burkina Faso's above average vulnerability to shocks, and given the need to ensure a
convincing exit from debt relief, the NPV of debt/export target should be set in the lower end
of the range, but some Directors favored the higher part of the range, taking into account the
role of workers' remittances as a factor of strength. Given the need to ensure a convincingly
sustainable debt situation and Burkina Faso's strong track record of adjustment, staff and
management recommend an NPV of debt/exports target of 210 percent.
43.   Regarding the possible "completion point," Directors stressed the importance of
continued strong performance under the Fund's ESAF-supported program and the IDA-
supported structural adjustment programs. Many Directors supported a shortening of the
interim period to the "completion point" to two years after the "decision point," conditional
on clear progress in implementing structural reforms, in particular in the areas of civil service
reform, public enterprise privatization, and agricultural sector liberalization. As these reforms
are to be completed by end- 1998, the staff see merits in advancing the "completion point" to
September 1999, provided that a satisfactory track record is maintained.



- 18 -
44.   As indicated in Table 8, for a "completion point" in September-1999, and an NPV of
debt/exports target of 210 percent, the total debt relief is estimated to be US$106 million in
NPV terms, of which multilateral contributions would be US$87 million and that by bilateral
creditors would be US$19 million, on the basis of the fully proportional burden-sharing
model. This would involve assistance by multilaterals as a group equivalent to 13.7 percent of
their claims at the "completion point," with the same NPV reduction by bilaterals as a group;
this implies that the NPV of debt reduction on eligible debt to the Paris Club creditors will
remain below 80 percent.6 A detailed breakdown of the contributions by each multilateral
creditor would be based on their shares in the NPV of multilateral debt at the "decision point."
This implies that each multilateral creditor would comrnmit, at the "decision point," to reduce
their claims in NPV terms by 15.8 percent. On this basis, the IDA, share of the debt relief
would be US$40.3 million, and the Fund share would be US$9.6 million.
45.   For a "completion point" in mid-2000 and a target of 210 percent, the total debt relief
would be US$98 million, with multilateral institutions contributing US$80 million, and
bilateral creditors contributing US$18 million; the common factor of reduction of claims in
NPV terms by multilateral creditors would be 14.5 percent; the IDA share would be
US$36.9 million, and the Fund share would be US$8.8 million.
46.   It is proposed that the Fund disburse its assistance, in the forn of a grant, into an
escrow account at the "completion point" to be used to meet debt service to the Fund on a
schedule to be agreed with the Burkina Faso authorities. The objectives of this schedule will
be to help bring the debt-service burden down to the agreed target and to smooth the debt-
service profile, including any humps, to the Fund and/or generally. Since Burkina Faso's debt
service both to the Fund and overall is relatively smooth, it is proposed that in this case and in
other comparable cases where there are no pronounced debt-service humps, the schedule of
drawdown of the Fund assistance should be slightly frontloaded and spread over the life of the
country's current obligations to the Fund. A graduated schedule for the drawdown of this
assistance for Burkina Faso, which meets these objectives, will be agreed with the Burkina
Faso authorities and proposed for approval by the Fund Board in due course, on a lapse-of-
time basis.
47.   The HIPC Trust Fund will be utilized to provide the required relief on debt owed to
IDA-equivalent to US$40 million in NPV terms. The HIPC Trust Fund will set aside, at the
"decision point," an amount equal to the NPV reduction required on IDA debt from resources
transferred from IBRD to the World Bank component of the HIPC Trust Fund. With these
resources the HIPC Trust Fund is expected, at the "completion point," to purchase IDA
credits with a nominal value of approximately US$75 million. The nominal amount of the
credits to be purchased will be determined on the basis of the principles agreed upon for
calculating the NPV of debt in DSAs7 and by selecting for purchase the oldest IDA credits.
6On the basis of staff estimates, the reduction would reach 76 percent.
7The principles for the calculation were described in detail in SecM96-927 entitled "The HIPC
Debt Initiative-Elaboration of Key Features and Possible Procedural Steps, " page I 1.



- 19 -
The HIPC Trust Fund will then promptly cancel these IDA credits and inform the debtor that
the debt is no longer due. The HIPC Trust Fund will enter into an agreement to this effect
with IDA as soon as possible following the "decision point." Total savings in debt service on
these credits would amount to US$85 million over their remaining life (up to 30 years for
some of the more recent ones), when relief on both principal and charges is included.
VIII. ISSUES FOR DISCUSSION
48.   Executive Directors may wish to focus on the following issues and questions:
49.   Qualification for assistance: On the basis of the staff analysis, the deliberations of the
IDA and Fund Boards, and staff consultations with multilateral creditors and the Paris Club,
there is a strong case for Burkina Faso' s qualification for assistance under the HIPC Initiative.
The staff and management recommend that Executive Directors make a positive final
determination on this matter.
50.   Decision point in principle: Since a critical mass of debt reconciliation has been
achieved, the staff and management recommend approval in principle of a "decision point" in
September 1997. Executive Directors are recommended to approve Burkina Faso's qualifica-
tion for assistance, the "completion point," and debt sustainability targets, subject to satisfac-
tory assurances of action by other creditors. If Executive Directors agree, these decisions
could be finalized, possibly on a lapse-of-time basis, by the Boards once these assurances have
been received.
51.   "Completion point": In light of Burkina Faso's past record and planned substantive
additional structural reforms in the immediate period ahead, the staff and management
recommend a "completion point" of September 1999. Executive Directors' consideration of
this recommendation is requested.
52.   Debt target: In light of Burkina Faso's vulnerability, and with a view to ensuring a
credible exit from debt rescheduling, the staff and management recommend that Executive
Directors endorse a target of 210 percent for the NPV of debt/exports ratio for a "completion
point" in September 1999. Burkina Faso's debt-service ratio is expected to be below
20 percent in 1998 prior to action under the Initiative and hence is not expected to be binding.
In the light of this, Director's comments on the proposed time profile of IDA and Fund
assistance under the Initiative are requested.
53.   Proposed decision: Executive Directors may wish to consider a decision on Burkina
Faso's qualification for assistance under the Initiative, the "completion point," the debt target,
and the specifics of each institution's commitment for assistance to Burkina Faso under the
Initiative. A draft decision will be issued as a supplement to this paper.



-20-
54.   Next steps: The foliowing steps are envisaged: (i) this document will be made
available to Burkina Faso's bilateral and multilateral creditors at the same time as it is
circulated to Executive Directors; (ii) the staff will inform Directors of any major new
developments regarding debt reconciliation or commitments by creditors by way of a
supplement or oral statement at the time of the discussion of'this document; (iii) the second
annual ESAF arrangement is being brought to the Fund Board on September 8, 1997; and
(v) the AGSAC II is expected to be brought to the IDA Board in early 1998.



- 21 -
Table 1. Burkina Faso: Long-Term Balance of Payments, 1993-2019
(In billions ofCFA fita)
1993      1994       1995       1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Estimates                         Pijectim
Exports, fob.                                            74.5      104.4      118.2     113.6      145.9      169.4      184.3      199.0     213.3
Of which: cotton                                        22.2      31.7       51.2      49.6       77.2       94.4      102.8      110.5      119.6
gold                                           8.1       12.2      11.7        9.3       9.8       11.3       12.7       14.1       15.6
Imports, fo.b.                                         -153.0    -193.9    -242.2    -277.0    -300.4    -322.0    -344.9    -367.9    -397.5
Of which: capita goods                                 -32.2     .44.2      -75.4      -95.4    -103.7    .109.9    -118.1       -122.7    -127.6
Trade balance                                           -78.6      49.6      -14.l    -1633      -154.6    -152.6    -160.6    -169.0    -184.,
Services (net)                                          -42.8      -53.3     -61.6      -74.3      -71.5      -75.6     .79.5       -83.5    -100.6
Noanfctor services                                     -39.0     -45.6      -56.0      -68.9     -67.9      -72.0      -75.9      -79.9      -97.0
Factor services                                        --3.8      -7.8       -5.7       -5.4      -3.6       -3.6       -3.6       -3.5       -3.5
Of which: interest payments                           -8.3      -12.5     -10.6      -10.7       -9.1      -9.5       -9.8       -10.1      -10.4
Transfers (net)                                         106.8      163A       170A      192.0      173.3      180.1      185.3      194.8     203.1
Private                                                 43.9      53.6       52.9       55.9      60.9       64.1       68.3       73.9       81.3
Of which: workes' renittances                         33.2       54.6      55.0       55.9       58.0       62.0       64.8       67.0      73.0
Official                                                62.9     109.8      117.5      136.1      112.4     116.0      117.0      120.9      121.8
Of which: budgetary                                   43.2       75.4      88.0      108.9       85.0      88.0       88.0        88.0      88.9
Of which: projectgants                        28.0      35.4       51.2       81.6       S5.0      88.0       88.0       88.0       88.9
provamganls                         15.2       40.0      36.8       27.3        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Current account ( dedicit -)                            -14.6       20.5     -15.3      -45.6      -52.8      48.1       -54.8      -57.7      -81.6
Excluding official transfers                           -77.5     -89.3    -132.8      -181.8    -165.2    -164.1      -171.8     -178.6    -203.4
Official capital                                         24.8       36.9      41.0       31.9       32.2       40.2       44.6       41.5      39.8
Disbusemezts                                            36.9      57.8       69.6      47.8       53.0       63.3       68.4       67.4       70.1
Ofwhich: budget                                       35.3       57.8      69.6       47.8       53.0      63.3       68.4       67.4       70.1
Of which: project loans                       27.6      29.0       46.4       43.3      48.5       52.3       63.1       67.4       70.1
programloans                         7.7       28.8      23.3        4.4        4.4       11.0       5.3        0.0        0.0
Amortization                                          -12.1      -20.9      -24.4     -15.9      -20.7      -21.3      -22.5      -25.9      -30.3
Of which: budget                                      -9.8      -20.9     -24.4      -15.9      -20.7     -21.3      -22.5      -25.9      -30.3
Capital Transfers                                       0.0        0.0       -4.2       0.0        0.0       -1.8       -1.3        0.0        0.0
Private capital 1/                                        2.7       13.5       9.9       11.0       14.2       13.6       11.7       14.8       19.8
Emroreandomissions                                       .6.4      -10.2      32.1        1.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Overall balance                                           6.4       60.6      67.7       -1.7       -64A        5.7        1.5       -1.4     -22.1
Financing                                                 -6.4     -60.6     -67.7        1.7        6.4       -5.7       -1.5        IA       22.1
Netforeignassets                                      -17.3      -51.0      -71.0       0.6       -7.1      -25.4      -15.0        1.4       22.1
Net official reserves                                -15.6        7.3     -38.3       -2.5       -7.1     -25.4      -15.0         1.A      22.1
Gross official reserves                             -19.0      .6.6      -51.9      -7.0      -16.7      -34.3      -17.2        7.4       30.2
IMF (net)                                            3.4       13.9       13.5       4.5        9.5        8.9        2.2       -6.0       4.2
Net foreign assets commei banks 2                     -1.7      -58.2     -32.6        3.1        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Of which: Post office                                 -0.5        4.0       0.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.3
Chnge in        (reduction-)                            7.6      -17.3       -1A        0.0       -7.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debt relief                                              3.3       7.7        4.6        1.1       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debt under discussion                                    3.3       0.0        0.0        0.0       9.8        2.8        2.8        0.0        0.0
Financinggap (after IF purchases)                       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       10.7       17.0       10.7        0.0        0.0
Memorandum items:                                                              (In percent of GDP unless othetwise indicated)
Current account ( deficit= -)
Including official trarser                              -1.S       2.0       -1.3      -3.5       .3.7       -3.1       -3.2       -3.2       -4.1
Excluding official trnsfers                             -9.7      -8.7      -11.3      -14.0     -11.6      -10.5      -10.2       -9.8      -10.2
Debtsetviceratio 3/                                      22.1       24.7      22.9       17.7       15.9       14.5       14.1       14.7       15.5
NPV of public extmal debt (in miions of U.S. dors)         ...       ...     933.1      683.5      721.3      775.0     833.1       883.0      933.7
NPV debt/exports ratio (including IMF) 41                  ...       ...        ...     240.7      237.3      243.3     237.9       231.1     227.9
Gross official reserves
InbillionsofCFAfrancs                                   97.7      162.5     247.0      250.9      267.5     301.9      319.0      311.6      281.4
Inmonthsofimportedgoods,c.i.f                            6.5        8.7      10.5        9.2        9.2       9.6        9.5         8.7       7.1
GDPatcurrentpnces(inbiDioasofCCFAf Aes)                 796.1    1,029.4   1,172.0    1,298.3    1,425.0    1,557.6    1,688.2    I.S28.0    1,987.8
Sources: Data provided by the Cental Bank ofWest Afican States (BCEAO); and staff estima.
I/ Includes portfolio investment and Iem  direct inesenL
2/ Including net foeg assets Post Office 1994 date rdlect holdinp of WAEMU gvamet tideL
3/ In perent of expr of goods and  D lte svices.
4/ In percent of exports of gpods and nnilotor services (three-year moving averap.



- 22 -
Table 1. Burkina Faso: Long-Tenm Balance of Payments, 1993-2019
(In billions of CFA fic)
2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008       2009       2010
Proiecuorm
Expotts, £ob.                                          237.6     263.1      291.1      321.7     355.6      393.2      434.7      479.3     528.6
Of which. cotton                                      137.5     155.9      176.5     198.7      223.6     251.4      282.7      316.3      353.8
gold                                         17.6      20.0       22.5      25.7       29.1       32.9       36.8      41.1       45.7
Imposl £fo.b.                                         427.5      460.0    -495.2    -533.6    -574.5    -616.5    -662.5    -714.0    -773.0
Of which: capital goods                             -135.6    -143.6    -152.1    -161.2    -169.0    -177.0    -185.1    -195.3    -205.7
Trade balance                                         -189.8    .196.9    -204.1    -211.9    -218.9    -223.3    -227.8    -234.S    -244.5
Services (net)                                        -105.0    -110.1    -115.5    -121.8    -128.2    -134.7    -141.9    -150.1          -159.6
Nonfactorsavices                                     -101.5    .106.7    -112.2    -118.3    -124.6    -130.9    -137.8    -145.7    -155.0
Factor sevices                                        t-3.4      -3.4       -3.3      -3.4       -3.6       -3.9      -4.1       -4.4       -4.6
tfwhich: intereslpaymn                              -10.7      -11.1     -11.4      -12.0     -12.6      -13.3      -14.1      -14.9     -15.7
0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Transfer (net)                                         212.1      222.0     232.7      244.3     257.8      272.5      288.4      305.6     324.3
Private                                                89.5      98.4      108.2     118.9      131.5      145.2      160.2     176.5      194.2
Ofwhich: worlkeremittances                           79.5       86.6      94.3      102.7     111.9      121.9      132.8      144.7     157.6
Official                                              122.7     123.6      124.5     125.4      126.3      127.2     128.2      129.1      130.1
Ofwhich: budgetary                                   89.8       90.7      91.6       92.5      93.4       94.3       95.3       96.2      97.2
Ofwhich: project a                           89.8      90.7       91.6      92.5       93.4       94.3       95.3      96.2       97.2
Prowan pants                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Curent ount ( deficit= -)                              -2.7       -85.0     -87.0      -89.4     -89.3      -85.6      -81.3      -79.3     -79.7
Exduding officialt afens                             -205.3    -208.6    -211.4    -214.8    -215.6    -212.8    -209.5    -208.4    -209.8
Official capital                                        39.9      41.6       46.9       56.9      62.6       68.8       68.8       71.2      74.8
Disbursements                                         78.0       86.1      94.5      103.2      109.3      115.5     121.4      130.0      138.5
Ofwhich: budget                                      78.0       86.1      94.5      103.2     109.3      115.5      121.4      130.0     138.5
Ofjwhich: projectloar                        78.0      86.1       94.5     103.2      109.3      115.5      121.4     130.0      138.5
progran  loas                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Amorization                                           -38.1     -44.6      -47.6      46.3      -46.7     -46.7      -52.6      -58.7      -63.7
Ofwhich: budget                                     -38.1     -44.6      -47.6      46.3       46.7      -46.7      -52.6     -58.7      -63.7
Capital Transfen                                       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Private capital 1/                                      23.2      24.6       26.1       27.7      29.4       31.3       33.4      35.7       38.2
Errors and omissions                                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Overal balance                                         -19.5      -18.9     -14.0       -4.8       2.7       14.6       20.9      27.6       33.3
Financing                                               19.5       18.9      14.0       4.8       -2.7      -14.6      -20.9     -27.6      -33.3
Net fipn assets                                        19.5     1I.9        14.0       4.8       -2.7      -14.6     -20.9      -27.6      -33.3
Net offiEl reserves                                  19.5       18.9      14.0       4.8       -2.7      -14.6      -20.9     -27.6      -33.3
Grs official resewves                              28.7       30.1      25.4       13.4       3.1      -10.4      -19.3      -27.6      -33.3
IAF (net)                                          -9.3      -11.2      -11.4      -8.5       -5.9      -4.3       -1.6        0.0        0.0
Net foejign .sset commerial banks 71                  0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Of which: Post office                                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Change in arrears (reduction' -)                       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debt relief                                            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debtlunderdiscussion                                   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing gp (aftr RAP purchaes)                       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Memorandun itms:                                                              (In percent of GDP unless othawise indicated)
Curaet account ( deficit -)
Including off ical trnsfem                            -3.8       -3.6      -3A        -3.2       -2.9      -2.6       -2.3       -2.0       -1.9
Erteudingofficial tr_as                                -9.5      -8.8      -8.2       -7.7       -7.1      -6.4       -5.8       -5.3       -4.9
Debt serce ratio 3/                                     16.8       17.4      16.8       15.1      14.0       12.9       13.0       13.1      12.9
NPVofpublic eaelnldebt(inmiios ofU.S. dollars)         983.8    1,035.2    1,088.6    1,152.9    1,228.8    1316.5    1,410.2    1,512.1    496.1
NPVdebtlexportsratio(includingRAF)41                   221.8     213.7      204.0      196.6     190.8      186.0      181.3     177.0       52.9
Gross official resaves
InibillioasofCFAhincs                                 252.7     26         197.2      183.8     1807       191.0      210.4     23S.0      21.3
Inmofindtof ineted ods,ecf                              5.9       4.8        4.0        3.4       3.1        3.1        3.2       3.3        3.5
GDP atcwre pnces(inbilLibo.ofCFAfimes)                2,164.9   2,357.1    2,566.7   2,794.9   3,043.9    3,315.5    3,611.7    3,933.8    4,285.2
Sources: Daa provided by the CwAral Bak of Weot Ahinm States (BCEAO) and saff estinAm.
1/ Incude portfolio in at mdfeig  di  i
2/ Inclnnet           e PstOe  1994das r           hold& ofWAMtiekL
3/ npeofexp of oadnries
4/ Inperentofe       of std nonbeter           (tbar   mog  ers)



- 23 -
Table 1. Burkina Faso: Long-Term Balance of Payments, 1993-2019
(In billions ofCFA fraxs)
2011      2012      2013      2014       2015      2016       2017      2018       2019
Projections
Exports, f.o.b.                                       581.7     639.8      703.1     770.9     845.5      927.4    1,017.5    1,116.6    1,225.6
Ofwhich: cotton                                     394.6      439A      488.4     541.0      599.3     663.7      735.0     813.8      901.0
gold                                        50.4       55.6      61.2      67.3      74.0       81.2      89.1   *07.7         107.2
Imparts, fo.b.                                       438.3    -909.6    -987.2  .1,081.4   -.1,85.1   -1,299.2   -1,424.7   -1,562.9   -1,715.0
Of which: capital goods                             -224.1    -235.9    -248.0    -270.2    -294.4    -320.7    -349.5    -380.9    -415.2
Trade balance                                        -256.6    -269.8    -284.1    -310.5    -339.7    -371.8    .407.2    -446.2        489.4
Services (net)                                       -170.2    -181.9    -194.7    -210.9    -229.0    -248.5    -270.2    -293.3    -318.9
Nonfactor services                                  -165.4    -176.9    -189.4    -205.4    -222.9    -241.6    -262.3    -284.2    -308.2
Factor services                                      -4.8       -5.0      -5.2      -5.6       46.1      -6.9       -7.9      -9.2      -10.7
Ofwhich: inWter  payments                          -16.5     -17.3      -18.I     -19.2     -20.5      -22.0     -23.7      -25.9     -28.2
0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Transfers (net)                                       344.6     366.7      390.6     416.6     444.8      475.5     508.8      545.1     584.6
Private                                              213.6     234.6     257.6     282.5      309.7     339.4      371.7     407.0      445.4
Ofwhich: workers remittances                       171.7      187.1     203.8     222.0     241.9      263.6     287.2      3129      340.9
Official                                             131.1     132.1     133.1     134.1      135.1     136.1      137.1     138.2      139.2
Ofwhich: budgetary                                  98.2      99.2      100.2     101.2     102.2      103.2     104.2      105.3     106.3
Ofjwhich project pants                      98.2      99.2      100.2     101.2     102.2      103.2     104.2      105.3     106.3
proQa  grants                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Current account ( deficit= -)                         -82.1      -85.0    -.8.1    -104.9    -123.9    -144.8    -168.5    -194.4    -223.7
Excluding official transfas                         -213.2    -217.1    -221.2    -238.9    -259.0    -280.9    -305.7    -332.6    -362.9
Official capital                                       87.5      90.8       93.8     109.9     131.0      150.3     173.9      202.0     225.5
DisburseMents                                        158.5     167.8     176.8     200.5      226.4     254.8      285.9     319.8      357.0
Ofjwhich: budget                                   158.5     167.8      176.8     200.5     226.4      254.8     285.9      319.8     357.0
Of which: project loans                    158.5      167.8     176.8     200.5     226.4      254.8     285.9      319.8     357.0
program loans                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
A.mortization                                        -71.0     -77.0     -83.0     -90.6      -95.4    -104.5    -112.0    -117.9    -131.5
Ofrwhich: budget                                   -71.0     -77.0      -83.0     -90.6     -95.4    -104.5    -112.0    -117.9    -131.5
Capital Transfers                                     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Private capital 1/                                     40.8      43.8      47.0       50.5      54.2       58.4      62.9       67.8      73.2
Errors and omissions                                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Overall balance                                        46.2      49.5       52.6      55.5      61.3       63.9      68.2       75.3      74.9
Financing                                             -46.2      49.5      -52.6     -55.5     -61.3      -63.9     468.2      -75.3     -74.9
Net foreign assets                                  -46.2      -49.5     -52.6     -55.5      .61.3     -63.9      -6.2      -75.3      -74.9
Net official reserves                              -46.2     -49.5      -52.6     -55.5     -61.3      463.9     -68.2      -75.3     -74.9
Gross official reserves                          -46.2      .49.5     -526       -55.5     .61.3     -63.9      -68.2     -75.3      -74.9
IMF (net)                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Net foreign assets, commercial banks 21              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Of which: Post office                                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Chnge in arears (reduction=-)                         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Debt relief                                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Debt under discussion                                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Finncinggap(afterMAFpurchases)                        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Memorandm iteas:                                                            (In percent of GDP unless otherwise indicated)
Current account ( deficit= -)
Including official transfers                          -1.85     -1.7      -1.6      .1.7       -1.9      -2.0       -2.2      -2.3       -2.4
Excluding offiealtnsfers                             -4.6       4.3       -4.0      .4.0       -3.9      -3.9      -3.9       -3.9       -3.9
Debtserviceratio 31                                    13.0      12.8       12.5      12.5      12.1       12.0      11.8       IIA       11.6
NPVofpublicextemaldebt(inmillionsofU.S. dollrs)      1,724.0    1,835.0   1,950.3   2,081.4   2,231.7    2,406.4    2,607.0   2,837.8    3,101.9
NPVdeWeqprortsatio (mcludingISFA)4/                   167.8     163.0      158.3     154.6     151.8      149.9     148.6      148.0     147.8
Gross official reserves
InbillionsofCFAftancs                                317.5     367.0      419.7     475.2     536.5      600.4     668.7      744.0     818.9
In months of imeoted gods, c.if                        3.8       4.0       4.3        4.4       4.5       4.6        4.7       4.8        4.8
GDP at ourent pncs (i bhillios ofCFA fancs)         4,667.8    5,084.6   5,538.8   6,033.0   6,5721    7,160.2    7,801.8    8,501.8    9,265.6
Sources: Data provided by the Ceral Bank of West Afican States (BCEAO); and staffestimes
1/Incudes postfolio in     ad fn diect in
2/ Including net Ibrein at post Offi;e; 1994 dat rlects holdings of WABMUoS°ttides.
3/In percent of ets cfgood and   ar servi
4/In pe   of exports of goods and nracr services (tbreer moving averge).



- 24 -
Table 2. Burkina Faso: Main Structural Reforms Under IDA and
Fund SAF and ESAF-Supported Programs, 1991-96
Reforms                                                                    Timing          Comments
1. Fiscal Reform
Tax reform
Introduction of value-added tax (VAT) on large enterprises and imports.  1993
Revision of system of taXation for petroleum products, with introduction of  1993
VAT.
Increase in the rate of VAT from 15 to 18 percent.                     1996
Implernentation of a single system of taxation of the informal sector and of
small and medium-size enterprises.                                   1993
Establishment of tax unit for large taxpayers.                         1994
Introduction of single tax identifying number.                         1995
Tightening of customs exemptions.                                      1991-96
Foreign-financed projects evaluated including taxes, with tax payments by the
Treasury.                                                            1994
Reduction in the rate of the corporate income tax from 45 to 40 percent.  1996
Budgetary reform
Strict enforcement of prior commitment authorization by Ministry of Finance.  1995
Closure of expenditure commitments by November 20 of each year.        1995
Preparation of a monthly status of expenditure by budget heading at the
commitment, settlement and payment order stage.                      1995
Revision of budget nomeclature, with unified current and capital budget.  1995
Reduction of domestic arrears
Repayment of debt of the postal saving system.                         1995-96
2. Public enterprise privatisation (Initial 76 enterprises)
First phase ofprivatisation concerning 22 enterprises: 18 enterprises privatized,  1991-96
2 under liquidation; 2 remaining to be privatized.
Secondphase ofprivatisation concerning 19 enterprises: 3 enterprises       1994-96
privatized, 6 under liquidation, and 10 to be privatized.
3. Banking sector reform
Liquidation of BND-B                                                   Early 1997   Effected with
Privatisation of BFCI                                                  Early 1997   delay
Privatisation of BIB                                                   1994
Repayment of bank debt and of debt of postal checking system           1995-96
4. Trade liberalization
Elimination of all price controls                                      1991-94
Elimination of export duties.                                          1993
Elimination of import authorisation and requirements.                  1993-95
Trade and price liberalization, including elimination of public marketing and
stabilization schemes on traditional cerals, oil seeds, livestock    1993



- 25 -
Reforms                                                                   Timing          Comments
Elimination of CGP (public enterprise) monopoly for rice imports       1996
Elimination of SOSUCO monopoly for sugar imports                       1996
Reduction in the number of products whose imports are subject to quality  1996
controls
Removal of export restictions on hides and skins                       1996
5. Liberalisation of Labor Code                                           1993-94



- 26 -
Table 3. Burkina Faso: Reforms Supported by IDA Adjustment Credits and Waivers
Credit/approval Date               Reforms Supported            Waivers of Conditionality
Structural Adjustment Credit     *    Improve management of public    None.
(Cr. 2281-BUR/1991)                   expenditure, public investment,
civil service.
*    Increase budget for social
sectors.
*    Public enterprise reforn/priva-
tization.
*    Price/trade liberalization.
*    Regulatory/institutional reform.
Transport Sector Adjust-         *    Improve road maintenance       Technical waiver for second
ment/Investment Project          *    Privatize parastatals in rail,  tranche in 1996; third tranche
(Cr. 2332-BUR/1992)                   urban transport and civil     release expected by end- 1997.
aviation.
i    Modernize/streamline sector
administration.
Agricultural Sector Adjustment   *    Free trade and prices of       Waiver of privatization
Credit (Cr. 2381-BUR/1992)            traditional cereals, oil seeds,  deadline for two agricultural
fruits and vegetables; abolish  parastatals in 1995.
state marketing boards; privatize
parastatals.
-    Free trade and prices of local
paddy rice.
*    Reorganize cotton sector.
*    Restructure agricultural services.
Economic Recovery Credit         *    Support adjustment program     None.
(Cr. 2590-BUR/1994)                   following CFA franc
devaluation.
*    Inrease producer price of cotton
by 40 percent.
* Lirmit wage increases; control
budget deficit.
*    Priority action plan for health
and primary education.
* Attenuate irnpact of devaluation
on the poor.



- 27 -
Table 4. Burkina Faso: SAF and ESAF Programs-Waivers and Status of
Midterm Review and Program Interruptions
Date Granted          Program                        Reason
A.   Waivers and Status of Midterm Review
March 1993        1993 lst-year ESAF     Midterm review not completed because
revenue shortfall caused nonobservance of
end-June 1993 performance criteria on:
(i) ceiling on nonconcessional borrowing
by the government; and (ii) target on
reduction of external domestic arrears. In
view of the size of the slippage (1 percent
of GDP for domestic arrears), corrective
measures were not able to bring the
program back on track.
March 1994        1993 2nd-year ESAF     Waiver for nonobservance of performance
criteria because revenue shortfall caused
nonobservance of end-June 1994
performance criteria on: (i) net bank credit
to government targeted; and (ii) reduction
in external arrears. Authorization
measures to bring program.
B.   Program Interruptions
Length                               Main factors
12 months, March Negotiations were delayed because democratization process filled all
1992-March 1993   political agenda in 1992.



-28-
Table 5. Burkina Faso: Key Structural Reforms Under IDA and
Fund-Supported Programs, 1997-99
Timing
Fiscal Reform
Introduce WAEMU's common external tariff with lowering of maximum tariff rate
from 37 to 25 percent                                                    January 1998
Revise tax benefits under investment code                                  1998
Computerization of wage and public investment expenditure                 December 1997
Complete computerization of tax revenue collection                        1997-99
Conduct review of Public Investment                                       December 1991
Harmonize the budgetary System within the WAEMU framework                 December 1997
Civil Service Reform
Presentation to parliament of a new civil service reform including a merit-based
advancement system                                                       December 1997
Adoption of a master plan for institutional development which addresses:  December 1997
* the modernization of public administration
* civil service reform
* the decentralization and deconcentration effort
Introduction of a single personnel file, encompassing those of the Ministries of
Finance, and the Civil Service                                           December 1997
Introduction of new organic structures for all ministries                 March 1998
Financial Sector Reform
Adopt and implement a plan for the restructuring of the CCP-CNE           December 1998
Strengthen the network of saving and loans cooperatives                   1997-98
On the basis of new OHADA acts and the regulations of the Banking Commission,
strengthen rules applying to bank collateral, bank reserves, and effective capital  1997-99
Business Environment, Legal and Regulatory Framework
Simplify business law in context of OHADA                                 1997-99
Increase recruitment of magistrates and computerize courts and tribunals   1997-99
Strengthen one-stop window (CPE) for private enterprises and streamline regulations   October 1997
Public Enterprises and Privatization
Strengthen institutional framework for privatization, so as to speed up process  October 1997
Complete ongoing privatization program of 41 enterprises
Already completed                 21 enterprises
Put up for sale or liquidate       8 enterprises                        December 1997
Put remainder for sale            12 enterprises                        March 1998
Strategic review of remaining enterprises in govermment portfolio         June 1998
Agricultural Policy
Phase out activities of state rice import company                          1997-99
Adopt new agreement on producer prices and profit sharing mechanism. for cotton  March 1998
Adopt plan to open up the capital of SOFITEX to cotton produicers and others  June 1998
Complete reorganization of agricultural services of Ministry of Agriculture  December 1998



- 29 -
Table 6. Burldna Faso: Social Development Performance Indicators
Objectives and Policies                 Indicators                          Targets
HEALTH
hIprove primary health care quality                                    1996    1997     1998     1999
and coverage                                                           Est.            Projections
I. Increase public expenditure on    *  Share of budget expenditure
health                               onhealth "                   10.3     10.5     11.0     12.0
2. Reallocate budgetary spending to  *  Health budgets established at
health districts                     district level                        By 1998
3. Provide adequate staffing of local  *  Share of CSPS meeting
health centers (CSPS)                minimal staffing norms (3             100 percent by 2000
agents)
4. Provide regular supplies of essential   *  Share of CSPS with essential
drugs to CSPS                        drugs "                      60       70       80       100
5. Increase utilization rates in CSPS  0  New cases/inhabitants/year:
= Urban                   0.2      0.4      0.5       0.6
= Rural                   0.1      0.2      0.3       0.4
6. Strengthen child vaccination      *  Share of infants (0-II months)
programs                             vaccinated "
-BCG                      67        70       80       85
- DCT/polio               50        60       70       75
- Measleslyellow fever    57        70       75       80
EDUCATION
Improve coverage, equity and quality                                  1996     1997    1998    1999
of basic education                                                   Est.              Projections
1. Increase public spending on basic  0  Share of budget expenditure
education                            on basic education "         8.8      10.1     11.5     13.0
2. Expand capacity of primary school    *  Gross enrollment ratio    40        42       45       47
system                            0  New admissions in first grade
(in thousands)              149      189      229      270
3. Recruit primary school teachers   0  Local recruitment plan ready          By June 1998
locally                           *  Pilot implementation started          October 1998
4. Promote girls' education          *  Girls' primary school gross
enrollment ratio u          30       33       35       38
5. Reduce regional disparities in access  *  Spread in provincial primary
to primary education                 school enrollment ratios     75       73       71       69
6. Improve quality and efficiency of  *  Repetition rate"             18       17       16       14
primary education
Book/pupil ratio (French and    At least one book for two pupils by 1999
Math)
I/ In percent.



- 30 -
Table 7. Burldna Faso: Nominal and NPV of Debt Outstanding, End-December 1996
Nominal debt                           NPV Debt-After Naples Tenns
USS      Percent of total  Percent of         USS      Percent of total  Percent of
millions      debt      multilateral          millions       debt      multilateral
debt                                           debt
Total                                1,287.6         100.0                           683.5          100.0
Total multiateral debt               1,099.3          85.4      100.0                550.3           80.5       100.0
Of which:
IDA                                636.8..         49.5       57.9                254.4           37.2       46.2
AtDF                               212.3           16.5       19.3                 92.2           13.5       16.8
IMF                                 63.6            4.9        5.8                 60.8            8.9        11.0
IDB                                 35.7            2.8        3.3                 26.1            3.8        4.7
EIB                                 35.8            2.8        3.3                 22.3            3.3        4.0
IFAD                                22.4            1.7        2.0                 10.4            1.5         1.9
BADEA                               30.1            2.3        2.7                 24.7            3.6        4.5
OPEC Fund                            15.2           1.2        1.4                 11.6            1.7        2.1
AfDB                                 19.1           1.5        1.7                 21.6            3.2        3.9
Other                               28.2            2.2        2.6                 26.2            3.8        4.8
Bilateral creditors                   188.3           14.6                           133.2           19.5
Paris Club                            49.2            3.8                           33.8            4.9
Paris Club I                        29.4            2.3                            24.5            3.6
Paris Club 11                       19.8            1.5                             9.3            1.4
Non-Paris Club                       139.1           10.8                           99.4            14.5
Rescheduled                         60.2            4.7                            50.4            7.4
Not prviously rescheduled           78.9            6.1                            49.1            7.2
Sources: Data provided by the Budkinab6 authorities; and staff estimates.



Table 8. Burkina Faso: Assistance, Net Present Value (NPV) of Debt/Exports Targets and Burden Sharing 1/
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
NPV of debt!                                  September 1999                                           September 2000
export target                                completion point                                         conmpletion point
(in percent)
Total Asidance                    225                                            58.4                                                      45.2
220                                            74.3                                                     62.7
215                                            90.2                                                     80.2
210                                           106.2                                                     97.7
205                                           122.1                                                     115.2
Memorandum items:
Assistance at    Effective Action 2/ 3/                  Assistanc.at    Effective Action 2/ 3/
completion point     (In percent)                        eompeition Point     (In percent)
Muliater Assistance               225                                48.0                7.5                                  36.9                5.4
220                                61.1                9.6                                  51.2                7.5
215                                74.1               11.6                                  65.6                9.6
210                                87.2               13.7                                  79.9               11.7
205                               100.3               15.8                                  94.2               13.8
Bilatral Assistance               225                                10.4                7.5                                   8.3                 5.4
220                                13.3                9.6                                  11.4                7.5
215                                16.1               11.6                                  14.6                9.6
210                                18.9               13.7                                  17.8               11.7
205                                21.8               15.8                                  21.0               13.8
Proected NPV Ddet to Export Ratio (in percent)                                  243.3                                                     237.9
Prqjeced NPV after Naples terms 4/                                              775.0                                                     833.1
Multilateral                                                                 636.7                                                    681.0
Bilateral                                                                    138.3                                                     152.1
Prjeded Exports 5/                                                              318.5                                                     350.2
1/ Assumes proponal burden sharing
2/ Assidance as a percentage ofthe NPV of debt at the completion point after Naples tms applied by all bilataal creditors.
3/ Staffestinmtes that the implied NPV reduction of eligible debt to Paris Club creditors ranges from 72 percent for 225 percent target to 77.6 percent for 205 percent target in 1999.
The respective figues are 70.6 percent and 76.2 percent in 2000.
4/ Assumes that non-Paris Club crditors have provided relief on conparable terms to the Paris Club.
5/ Three-year moving *verage.



I






IMAGING
Report No.: P     7169   BUR
Type:    PR



