/ -
Report No. 920a-KO
Korea                                                 FILE COPY
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
January 13, 1976
Transportation Division
East Asia & Pacific Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit        =    Won (W)
US$1                 =    W 485
Wi                   -    US$0.0021
Wl million           =    US$2,062
*The exchange rate is floating, but the rate used
in this report is indicated above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                     =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2             0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )        =    0.386 square miles (sq.mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =    2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)            =    (0.98 long ton (lg ton) or 2,240 lbs)
(1.1 US short ton (sh ton) or 2,000 lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt      -    Annual average daily traffic
BPR       -    Bureau of Public Roads
DBST      -    Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
EPB       -    Economic Planning Board
ER        -    Economic Return
GNP       -    Gross National Product
KHC       -    Korea Highway Corporation
KNR       -    Korean National Railroad
MOC       -    Ministry of Construction
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOHA      -    Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT       -    Ministry of Transportation
NHMO      -    National Highway Maintenance Offices
PCB       -    Provincial Construction Bureau
RCB       -    Regional Construction Bureau
TCMO      -    Territorial Construction and Management Office
TCMC      -    Transport Coordination Mlinisters' Conference
TPO       -    Transport Planning Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY   ooo.o.oo.ooo... .ooo.oo..   oooo...oo o...  ,o                   i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...........o*o........o.o                ..................    1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....o ...... ...............*..........                 2
Ao   Economic Setting ...o.oooo... o.                                       2
B.    Transport Modes  ...          ...................... .........*.      3
Co   Transport Planning and Coordination                  ..............    5
III*   HIGHWAYS o.*.....       ooo.... s.... o...... oo..o....o..oo..o.....ooo..oo   6
Ao   The Network  o...*ooooooo..........................                    6
B.    Highway Traffic  .... . ....o.o. ... .. . o .......oo..  ...          6
C.   Highway Administration  ..............................                 8
D.    Highway Planning and Financing ..0.0........0.0..0    10
E.    Highway Design and Construction ..o..o..oooo.oooo.    11
F.   Highway Maintenance ... o.... ............  ..0..000.                 12
IV.    THE PROJECT oooooo........................... 0000.**                       14
A.    Description  ..oO............................*.    14
B.    Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component oooe    16
C.    Financing o                                                          18
D.    Implementation  .....o  ... ..0 ...0.0 ..0 ....0.00..    19
E.    Disbursements            ....0...0         . ............ ....    19
Vo   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ....oo.ooo ... ...oo..ooq.oo    20
Ao    General    0                                                         20
B.    Highway Construction 0                                               21
C.    Highway Paving ...o....                   .. .....o .... o..    23
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .............   .o..oooooooooooo.......    24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. A.F. Ballereau (Economist) and
P.R. Morris (Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Description of Project Highways to be Constructed
2.   Description of Project Highways to be Paved
TABLES
1.   Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1967 and 1971/75
2. Public Transport Investment Plans, 1967/71 and 1972/76
3. Public Roads Network, 1974
4.   Registered Motor Vehicles, 1962-74
5.   Korean Motor Vehicle Production, 1962-75
6. Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1962-75
7. Highway Authorities and Agencies
8. Expenditures on Roads, 1962-66 and 1967-74
9. Highway User Charges, 1967-75
10.   Design Standards for Two-Lane National Highways (Rural)
11.   MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways:
Implementation Schedule
12.   Estimated Cost of Project
13.   Project Implementation Schedule
14.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
15.   Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
16.   Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Roads
17.   Estimated Average Vehicle Operating Costs and
Savings on Project Roads
18.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Highway Construction
19.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Highway Paving
20.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
CRARTS
1. Ministry of Construction
2. Bureau of Public Roads Organization
MAP
National Highway Network



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
lo        Demand for transport in Korea is increasing rapidly, in line
with the long-term growth rate of the economy. GNP grew at an average rate
of 10% p.a. in real terms from 1964 to 1974. In spite of the recent rise
in commodity prices and the worldwide recession, the growth rate was 8% in
1974 and is expected to continue between 7% and 8%. Demand for all domestic
transport grew at a rate of about 16% p.a. during the past decade. Although
the growth rate is likely to be smaller in future, it is expected to con-
tinue to grow at a rate faster than the economy as a whole. Further, high-
ways are taking a steadily increasing proportion of overall traffic, includ-
ing most of the increase in passenger traffic.
ii.       Following the recommendations of the Bank-financed Land Transport
Survey in 1967, the Government has devoted an increasing proportion of in-
vestment to transport, especially for highways. Between 1965 and 1974 the
share of investment in transport has grown from 19% to 21% of capital form-
ation and the proportion of investment in highways has increased from 33% to
about 46% of all public investment in transport. To improve planning and
coordination of transport, including adequate examination of proposals for
investment, the Government set up an inter-ministerial Transport Coordination
Ministers Conference (TCMC) and a Transport Planning Office (TPO) in the
Ministry of Transport (MOT). The staff is being trained and the planning
body is expected to become gradually more effective. As a condition of
effectiveness of the Fifth Railway Loan, in July 1975, the Government sub-
mitted to the Bank a time phased plan to review the role of the various trans-
port agencies including TPO and agreed to take, in agreement with the Bank,
within one year measures to ensure effective formulation and review of
policies and investment proposals in the transport sector.
iii.      The present public roads network in Korea is generally fairly
adequate in density, but its condition is inadequate to carry the rapidly
increasing traffic, particularly on the national highway system. To cope
with this situation, the Government's highway investment in the third Five-
Year Plan 1972-76 has a target, for national highways, of 500 km of new
construction, including paving, and 3,000 km of improvement and paving of
existing highways; and for provincial roads, of improvement and paving of
about 3,500 km. Although these targets may be optimistic, it is expected
that the national highway system will be almost completely paved by the
early 1980's.
iv.       Of even greater priority than road improvement is the reorganiza-
tion and improvement of road maintenance. A new maintenance organization,
under the Ministry of Construction (MOC), is being set up to maintain the
national highway system and will carry out a program to bring its maintenance
up to a satisfactory level. A start was made in a pilot province under the
First Highway Project, and the organization is now being extended to the



- ii -
remaining eight provinces, with equipment being financed under the Second
Highway Project. The provincial works organizations, which now maintain the
national highways, will then be able to concentrate on the provincial roads.
v.        From 1962 onward, the Bank has financed investments in the trans-
port sector with loans, credits and a grant, totalling US$401.4 million;
including five railway projects totalling US$219.7 million; a Bank grant of
US$200,000 in 1965 for the Transport Survey and a credit of US$3.5 million
in 1968 for studies of highways and transport coordination, refinanced
through Loan 769-KO of US$54.5 million in 1971 for the First Highway Project,
a Second Highway Project for US$47 million in 1974; and a port project for
US$80 million in 1973.
vi.       The Third Highway Project will include construction of 195 km of
national highways, paving of a further 600 km of national highways, feasibil-
ity studies for future improvement and paving of a further 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering if
found justified. The project was prepared through studies and engineering
carried out under Loan 769-KO.
vii.      The construction and paving works will be carried out by contract
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The domestic contracting industry is
well developed and efficient and won all the civil works contracts in the
First and Second Highway Projects; it is expected also to win all the con-
tracts in the Third Project. The consulting services to be financed will
be carried out by experienced foreign firms, assisted by domestic consultants.
The estimated total cost of the project is US$220.7 million. The loan of
US$90 million will finance the foreign cost.
viii.     The construction and paving elements of the project are aimed at
lowering vehicle operating costs by improving national highways which have
gravel surfaces and are inadequate to cope with increasing traffic. The
new improved roads will also serve isolated agricultural and fishing pro-
duction areas by improving access to consumption markets. The provision for
feasibility and detailed engineering studies will help to prepare future
highway projects.
ix.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan, of
US$90 million equivalent, representing about 41% of the total project cost,
to the Republic of Korea for a term of 24 years including a four-year period
of grace.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has asked the Bank to
help finance a Third Highway Project consisting of: (a) construction of
195 km of national highways: Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon, Daegu-Masan, Pohang-
Yeongdeog, and Suncheon-Beolgyo, including supervision by consultants;
(b) paving of 600 km of national highways: Icheon-Judeog, Chungju-Gimcheon,
Maepo-Andong, Weonju-Hayeong, Yeongdeog-Uljin, Uljin-Samcheog, Beolgyo-
Gangjin, Seongjeon-Mogpo, and Sangju-Gasan, including supervision by con-
sultants; (c) feasibility studies by consultants for improvement and paving
of a further 1,200 km of roads, and detailed engineering of those roads
found to be justified.
1.02      The Bank Group's previous assistance in financing the transport
sector has involved five railway projects: Credits 25-KO for US$14 million
in 1962, and 110-KO for US$10.7 million in 1967; Loan 669-KO/Credit 183-KO
for US$55 million in 1970; Loan 863-KO for US$40 million in 1972; and
Loan 1101-KO for US$100 million in 1975. In addition the Bank Group has
financed surveys and studies and two highway projects: a Bank grant of
US$200,000 in 1965 for the Korea Transportation Survey; Credit S4-KO for
US$3.5 million in 1968 for studies of highways and transport coordination
which was refinanced through the First Highway Project, Loan 769-KO for
US$54.5 million in 1971; a Second Highway Project, Loan 956-KO for US$47
million in 1974; also a port project, Loan 917-KO for US$80 million in
1973. Performance on these projects has generally been satisfactory.
1.03      For the First Highway Project, construction was completed within
the cost estimates, feasibility studies and detailed engineering satis-
factorily completed; the highway maintenance study was carried out and on
its basis the proposed MOC organization to maintain the national highway
system was established in a pilot province and is now being extended to
the rest of the country. For the Second Highway Project, construction is
nearly completed and feasibility studies were started in July 1975; equip-
ment is being purchased for the new maintenance organization. The Govern-
ment is taking measures to improve transport planning and coordination,
including training of staff.
1.04      The present project has been prepared on the basis of priorities
established by the Korea Transportation Survey and the Government's Third
Five-Year Development Plan 1972-76. The survey recommended increased invest-
ment in transport, with greater emphasis on highways. Feasibility studies
and detailed engineering were carried out under Loan 769-KO.
1.05      This report is based on information provided by the Government
and consultants, and on the findings of the M4arch/April 1975 appraisal
mission, composed of Messrs. P.R. Morris (Engineer) and A.F. Ballereau



-2-
(:7fics:.2m:¢>O  .>;-::azion of the project was delayed by the need for
add:tiancv invmf3Cation, which was collected by Mr. Ballereau in July 1975,
E:nd by s(.a: coxnstralnts. Additional information was also supplied by
t."2 C£2-7.z2r,. during negotiations (paras 4.13, 4.16, 4.18 and 4.20).
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Koreals economy has registered a rapid expansion in recent years,
chiefly througi a very high growth rate of its manufacturing and heavy
indus:ries oriented to exports but also to import substitution. During
1964--74, the GNP rose in real terms at an average rate of over 10% p.a.,
but had a succession of peaks and troughs, with a maximum rate of over 16%
in 1973 and a minimum of about 6% in 1965. Over that period, exports were
rising at an average rate of about 44% p.a. at current prices and repre-
sented about 30% of the GNP in 1974. Investment increased from about 11%
of the GNP in 1964 to 24% in 1974. The population was estimated at about
34 million in 1974 and its growth rate declined from 2.4% in 1964 to 1.7%
in 1974 which contributed to the rise in per capita income to about US$470
in 1974.
2.02      Since late 1973, the sharp world wide inflation, largely resulting
from the price increases of oil, foodgrain and some raw materials, badly
affected Korea which has few resources and must import most of the commodities
needed for its manufactures, including goods for export. Almost simultaneously
the deep recession, affecting countries such as the United States and Japan
which provide the markets for the bulk of its exports, was directly reflected
in Korea's economy and the export growth rate dropped from about 95% in the
exceptional year of 1973 to 38% in 1974 at current prices (or from 54% to
9.6% in real terms) which, nevertheless, is only a little below the 1964-74
average. The combined effect of higher import prices and lower growth for
exports resulted in the slowing down of the GNP growth rate to 8% in 1974,
an increase in the unemployment rate to 4.9% at the end of 1974 (which is
probably an underestimate) compared with 4.3% a year earlier, and a general
reduction of working hours.
2.03      Although by world standards the performance of the Korean economy
has been quite satisfactory, 1974 and 1975 have been difficult years charac-
terized by enlarged balance of payment deficits, a slow down in growth and
increased inflation; in 1974 wholesale prices increased by 45% and consumer
prices by 26% which called for immediate action from the Government. Measures
already taken include devaluing the Won in December 1974, monitoring of prices,
reducing imports through higher taxation and customs duties, particularly on
fuel and some raw materials, encouraging development of industries aimed at
import substitution, and intensifying trade promotion and diversifying over-
seas markets. Nevertheless, the Government's growth targets for the period
1972-81 which envisaged an 11% p.a. growth of GNP will probably have to be
lowered to between 7% and 8%.



- 3 -
B. Transport Modes
Recent Developments
2.04      The transport sector, measured in terms of value added, grew
faster than the economy during the past decade and registered an average
growth rate of about 16% p.a., compared to just over 10% pea. for the GNP.
The share of transport in the GNP increased from about 3.5% in 1965 to 5.1%
in 1974 and over the same period the share of investment devoted to transport
grew from 19% to 21% of the total capital formation.
2.05      Domestic passenger traffic (pass-km) and freight (ton-km) for all
modes continued to increase by about 14% and 5% p.a. respectively on average,
between 1971 and 1975, but the rate of increase was lower and less regular
for freight than during the Second Five-Year Development Plan 1967-71. In
1975, public passenger traffic was shared about 74% by highways and about
24% by railways. For freight traffic carried by public carriers, the share
was 52% by railways, 23% by highways, and 25% by coastal shipping; however,
these figures are somewhat misleading and grossly underestimate the share
of highways as private trucking is not accounted for. The annual average
traffic growth rate for passengers was 15% for highways and 11% for railways
between 1971 and 1975, while freight traffic grew annually by 7.3% for
highways, 6.7% for railways and 0.9% for coastal shipping. The Seoul subway
which started operation in 1974 is already well used and expected to carry
substantially more passengers (Table 1).
2.06      The rapid expansion of transport demand which is directly related
to the country's high economic growth rate has imposed a severe strain on
the transport infrastructure which up to about 1966 had not been modernized,
except for some improvements to the railways. The resulting shortage of
capacity caused bottlenecks which have required a massive reorientation of
the transport development strategy within the last 10 years, but there are
still deficiencies particularly in the highway network. Accordingly, the
Government increased the investment in the transport sector and its share
of the total public capital expenditure grew from 17% during the First Plan
(1962-66) to about 27% during the Second (1967-71) and to about 26% (US$1,000
million) during the Third Plan (1972-76). The allocation between modes is
about the same for the last two plans and is reasonable with about 46% for
highways, 36% for railways (including the Seoul Subway), 16% for ports,
maritime transport and storage and 9% for airports (Table 2).
2.07      As a result of the development of the highway network since 1968,
rail/road competition has grown keener, particularly for passenger transport
for which highway transport during the last decade progressively increased
its share to nearly 75% of all pass-km. Also, the railway is meeting strong
competition from trucks for short and medium distance freight traffic because
of the flexibility of service and increasing trans-shipment costs from rail
to trucks to reach the final destination. Undoubtedly, the virtual monopoly
enjoyed by the railway only a decade ago has now ended, and the transport



- 4 -
system is evolving through competition toward a more balanced multi-modal
pattern where the different modes will complement each other to some extent,
with each specializing according to its technical and economic characteristics.
Highways
2.08      The present highway system is still inadequate to cope with the
rapid growth of road transport, despite the Government's effort since 1968
to catch up with the backlog of necessary road improvements. Only 44% of
national highways and 19% of other roads are paved, the rest of the network
being either gravelled or unsurfaced. This situation will require a continued
high level of investment in this subsector. Details are given in Chapter
III.
Railways
2.09      The Government owned Korean National Railroad (KNR) at the end
of 1973 operated 3,086 route-km of standard gauge, of which 529 km are
double track. Electrification of some 321 km of industrial lines from
Seoul to the northeast coast (carrying mostly mineral traffic) was completed
October 1975. Also about 100 km of suburban lines have been electrified
which, with the construction of a subway opened in 1974, constitute the rail
transit system in the Seoul area.
2.10      Of the rail freight traffic, over 78% consists of bulk commodities:
38% coal, 15% cement, 8% ore, 7% petroleum products, 6% fertilizer and 4%
grain. The railway is expected to retain, or increase, its share of the
long distance traffic in line with its increased capacity resulting from
operational improvements and additional rolling stock. Continued competition
from other modes is expected for the remaining 22% of general freight traffic
and for passenger traffic; however, the railway is likely to retain a signi-
ficant amount of such traffic. The railway is expected to continue to in-
crease its efficiency of operation, partly resulting from Bank financed
railway projects, but tariff adjustments will also be required to effect a
major improvement in its finances.
Ports and Shipping
2.11      Freight traffic through the ports, including both overseas and
coastal shipping, has increased from about 11 million tons in 1965 to 58
million tons in 1973. This sharp increase resulted in serious port capacity
problems, particularly at Busan, the largest port, which is chronically
congested. Port facilities are being expanded, chiefly at Busan, Incheon,
and Mukho, with the help of loans from the Asian Development Bank and the
Bank; a new port has been constructed at Pohang by the Government for the
steel mill and related steel industries. Korea's share in merchant shipping
is increasing slowly but over the last three years only about 22% of the
country's total foreign trade tonnage has been carried by Korean vessels.
The important role of coastal shipping is largely due to the country's
geography and the Government's policy to develop industrial complexes at
Pobang, Ulsan, Masan and other coastal sites and to existing shortage of



rail and road capacity. Until 1972 the shipbuilding industry in Korea was
only small scale and produced ships in the range of 500 to 5,000 gross tons.
However, shipyards have recently been constructed at Ulsan which are now
producing supertankers and have an annual capacity of one minlion gross
tons. Another large shipyard is under construction on an island near Busan.
Aviation
2.12      Domestic passenger traffic carried by air is growing rapidly, but
still amounts to only about 1% of the total. Domestic air freight traffic
is negligible. Domestic routes are served by the privately-owned Korean
Airlines (KAL), which also operates a number of international flights. There
are two international airports: Seoul, which was expanded recently, and
Busan.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.13      In spite of the efforts of the Government since 1970 to create
institutions to improve transport planning, the decision-making process for
investments is still uncoordinated and dispersed among different Government
agencies. The Economic Planning Board (EPB), is the central agency which is
intended to have a comprehensive overview of investment in all sectors.
However, it has not been able to formulate an investment policy for the
whole transport sector at the macro-economic level. Moreover, the EPB does
not have the capability to review transport investment proposals by line
agencies and to assess the merit of alternative solutions to meet the Govern-
ment's specific objectives in transport and economic development.
2.14      Upon the recommendations of a study carried out by consultants
in 1968 under a Bank Technical Assistance Credit (S4-KO), the Government
set up in 1970 a Transport Planning Office (TPO) but located it under the
Ministry of Transportation (MOT), whereas the consultants had recommended
placing it under the EPB. To control the work of this office, the Govern-
ment also set up a Transport Coordination Ministers' Conference (TCKC), con-
sisting of the eight Ministers most concerned with transport matters, and
a Transport Coordination Working Group, a civil service committee with
members from the same Ministries. An action program to improve the working
of these bodies was included in the Loan Agreement for the Fourth Railway
Project (Loan 863-KO); it comprised undertakings to have the TPO collect
data on all transport modes, to have all major investment proposals relating
to transport appraised by the TPO before decisions are made, to strengthen
the staff of TPO, and to have quarterly reports sent to the Bank.
2.15      The role of the TPO and measures to increase its effectiveness
were discussed during negotiations for the Fifth Railway Project. The
Government has accordingly, as a condition of effectiveness of the Railway
Loan, submitted to the Bank in July 1975 a time-phased program for the
effective formulation and review of policies and investment proposals of
all its agencies and ministries related to the transport sector, including
the role and staffing of TPO. Further, the Government undertook to take



measures within one year, including issuing appropriate decrees acceptable
to the Bank, for carrying out the formulation and review of policies and
investment proposals in accordance with the program. A transport sector
mission will review these matters and examine the general question of road/
rail transport competition to ensure closer coordination in future. The
first phase of the mission took place in November 1975 and the second and
main phase is scheduled for March/April 1976.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public road network totalling about 44,200 km consists of
about 9,300 km of national highways, 10,900 km of provincial highways
and 24,000 km of city and county roads (Table 3). The national highways
include about 640 km of grade separated toll expressways, of which about
500 km are four-lane divided  and 140 km are two-lane.  The average road
density is 0.5 km of road/km« of land area, and 1.3 km of road/1,000 in-
habitants. These compare with ratios of 0.1 km of road/km2 and 1.3 km of
road/1,000 inhabitants in Thailand and 0.2 km of road/km2 and 1.7 km of
road/1,000 inhabitants in the Philippines.
3.02      The road density is generally sufficient to serve transport
needs, particularly as around 70% of the total land area is mountainous,
but the condition of most of the road network is inadequate. Only 44% of
the national highway system is paved, and 6% of the provincial highways
(compared with over 85% and 35% in Thailand respectively). Further, the
unpaved roads are in a poor state. Average driving speeds are usually only
in the range of 25-35 kph because the roads are badly aligned, narrow, and
have poor drainage and rough gravel surfacing, and a few are unsurfaced.
There is thus an urgent need to improve the highway network, particularly:
(i) major reconstruction and realignment of a few major trunk routes;
(ii) the paving of virtually all remaining national highways, and those
provincial highways with high traffic volumes; (iii) improvement of the
condition of gravelled and unsurfaced roads, chiefly through improved
maintenance; and (iv) instituting an adequate system of maintaining paved
highways.
B. Highway Traffic
3.03      Between 1964 and 1974, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
38,000 to 184,000 an average increase of 17% p.a. (Table 4). However,
during the last six years, the growth rate has fluctuated widely. Between
1967 and 1971, it accelerated to an average of 24%, whereas in 1971 it
fell to about 12% and in 1972 to 4%. It was up again in 1973 to 14% and
down in 1974 with a growth of about 7%. Furthermore, the highest increase



from 1971 to 1973 was in two-wheeled vehicles and, if these were excluded,
the growth rate would have been much less. The vehicle fleet is still
small; it is only 1 vehicle per 185 inhabitants, compared with 1 to under
50 inhabitants in Thailand, and 1 per 70 in the Philippines0
3.04      In line with the Government's policy of developing a domestic
motor vehicle manufacturing industry, local production increased from about
2,000 in 1962 to 30,000 in 1970; but since then production fell gradually
to about 18,000 in 1972 and rose again to 30,000 in 1974 and is expected
to reach 49,000 in 1975 (Table 5). This growth was fostered by restrictive
import licensing and high customs duties on foreign assembled vehicles. As
a result, nearly all motor vehicles are locally assembled, and with an
increasing proportion of locally manufactured parts0 The Government now
hopes also to build up an export trade in vehicles, and the aim is to produce
140,000 vehicles p.a. by 1980, a much lower target than their earlier fore-
cast of mid 1973 of 500,000 vehicles by 19800 There are four local manu-
facturing/assembly plants, with joint participation by Korean firms with
General Motors, Ford, Fiat and Honda. The combined capacity in 1974 was
about 90,000 vehicles p.a., on the basis of a single shift. Present pro-
duction is thus only about one third of capacity. The local content is
about 80% for buses and trucks, and about 70% for cars. The three largest
manufacturers have factories to produce engines and plan to export a large
proportion of the engines produced. Production of commercial vehicles
represents over 70% of total output, with about 57% trucks and 13% buses;
light vehicles (mainly taxis and pick-ups) are less than 30%. However,
Hyundai is about to manufacture a 100% Korean car, designed by an Italian
firm, intended primarily for export, with 1000 units in 1976, increasing to
40,000 by 1980.
3.05      Passenger traffic on highways (pass-km) accounts for about 74% of
the total for all modes (Table 1).  The growth rate for highway passenger
traffic in 1967-71 averaged about 18% p.a. and in 1971-75 about 15% p.a.
Highways are expected to continue to take all the increase in inter-city
traffic, but the growth of urban passenger traffic is expected to be shared
with the railway, particularly the new subway and electrified suburban
lines in the Seoul area. Freight traffic on highways (ton-km) represents
about 23% of such traffic on all modes, but the growth of road freight in
1967-71 averaged 49% p.a. which was more than double the average (19%) for
all freight traffic. Road freight traffic grew at only 7% in 1971-75 but that
was still above the average for all modes (5%). The share of freight traffic
by road is expected to continue to increase in the long term, but at a reducing
rate. However, since 1971, there has been a sharp fall in the growth of
road traffic, as indicated by a growth in 1972 of only 4% in registered
vehicles (para 3.03), and 7% in fuel consumption (gasoline and diesel).
The trend to slower growth of fuel consumption has been further accentuated
since the oil crisis of late 1973 (Table 6).
3.06      The Government attributes the fall in growth of road vehicles and
traffic since 1971 first to the economic stabilization policy and the
consequent reduction in the growth rate of GNP from 15% in 1969 to 7% in



1972 and more recently to the large increase in oil prices. However, res-
trictive licensing of commercial vehicles is also believed to have signi-
ficantly affected growth. Such restrictions included (a) issuing licenses
only to enterprises having a minimum of 20 vehicles in cities or 10 vehicles
in country districts; (b) imposing quotas on total numbers of vehicles in
each province; (c) regulation of rates for freight, as well as for passenger
traffic.  In addition, the cost of vehicles is high as a result of the
Government's policy of prohibiting the import of all assembled vehicles
(except a small number, in special categories) and requirements that an
increasing proportion of domestically manufactured components be used in
locally assembled vehicles. The resulting high unit costs, with small
production volumes, may have limited potential demand for vehicles.
3.07      The Government in line with the Loan Agreement for the Second
Highway Project undertook to review its policies concerning the regulation
of road transport and is relaxing the restrictions described in para 3.06.
Taking into account the economic recession and GNP growth rate forecast of
about 7% p.a. in 1975, the Government expects an annual increase of regis-
tered vehicles of around 16% p.a. from 1975 through 1981. However, even
with the removal of restrictions, the Government's projections of the growth
of the vehicle fleet appear optimistic. Lower growth rates have therefore
been assumed in the economic analyses of the proposed project.
3.08      Traffic counts on the national highways have been made since 196C
by the Ministry of Construction (HOC), assisted by the provincial authorities,
and are now carried out twice a year. Their reliability has been improved,
and they are now used in planning highway improvements. In accordance
with the Agreement for the Second Highway Project (Loan 956-KO), a start
was made in 1973 to extend the counting, recording and analysis of traffic
data to the provincial highway system. During negotiations the Government
confirmed that it will continue the collection and analysis of traffic data
on national highways, and complete the extension of traffic counting to the
provincial highway system.
3.09      Current regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions were reviewed
by BCEOM as part of the maintenance study carried out under the First High-
way Project. This showed that the existing legal limits are reasonable,
including a 10-ton single axle load, but that they should be extended to
cover semi-trailers and trailer combinations. A 35-ton limit was proposed
for all vehicles, and a 16-ton limit for tandem axles. The Government is
amending the regulations accordingly, as called for under the Second Highway
Loan Agreement.
C. Highway Administration
3.10      The MOC (Chart 1) is responsible, through its Bureau of Public
Roads (BPR) (Chart 2) for the planning, design, construction, maintenance
and administration of national highways. Local roads, which include pro-
vincial, special city (Seoul and Busan), city and county roads, are the



- 9 -
responsibility of the local authorities, under the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MOHA) (Table 7). However, the MOC has a general responsibility to the
Government for the formulation of policy in relation to these local roads.
3.11      The present organizations for planning, designing and constructing
highways, with the assistance of consultants and contractors on major works,
are satisfactory, the main organizational weakness being in highway main-
tenance. Historically, responsibility for maintaining all highways rested
with the provinces and their local authorities. In January 1971, the MOC
was given responsibility for maintaining national highways but, as the
MOC did not have a field organization to carry out the work, it continued
to be performed by the provinces with grant assistance. This imposes a
burden which the provincial authorities are not able to cope with adequately,
in addition to maintaining their local roads; over half their resources are
presently devoted to the national highways. To improve the situation, the
Government is setting up a new MOC field organization.(paras 3.22 - 3.25).
3.12      The Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) was set up by the Government
in January 1969 to construct, operate and maintain toll highways. It is
semi-autonomous, with its own Board of Directors, budget and accounts, but
is subject to the general direction of the Minister of Construction. The
KHC presently operates 640 km of toll expressways (Seoul-Busan, Seoul-Incheon,
Suwon-Weonju-Saemal, and Daejon-Jeonju). It supervised construction of the
last two, but so far has not financed any construction, although its Articles
of Association permit this.  During negotiations the Government agreed_to
prepare and submit to the Bank for review a policy statement relating to the
Government's toll road system including the functions, responsibilities and
budget of KHC.
3.13      The BPR is the headquarters organization within the MOC dealing
with the planning, administration, construction and maintenance of national
highways. Design and construction of national highways are normally carried
out by the Territorial Construction and Management Offices (TCHOs); the
number of such offices (previously known as Regional Construction Bureaus)
was expanded in mid 1975 from five to nine. The TCMOs also carry out con-
struction for other Bureaus of the MOC (on ports, water resources, housing
etc.). The design of major highway projects, particularly those financed
by international agencies, is carried out with the assistance of consultants,
working directly under the BPR; the supervision of their construction is
usually carried out by the TCKOs and the KHC working under the technical
direction of the BPR.
3.14      The provinces through Provincial Construction Bureaus (PCBs) are
responsible for the construction, maintenance, and administration of the
provincial highway system. The local authorities, that is counties and
cities, are responsible for local roads. Two Special Cities, Seoul and
Busan (with City Construction Sections), are responsible for all roads within
their areas.



- 10 -
D. Highway Planning and Financing
3. .5     2XanZSg of the national system is the responsibility of the MDC
and l s zar,ed ous by its BPR, which has a Planning Division.  The Division
carriea cut traffic surveys and maintains an inventory of national highways.
The data for the inventory, hitherto provided by the provinces, have not
always been reliable, but this will be remedied when the new MOC maintenance
orgaaization has been established over the whole country and takes over
data collection. A revised and satisfactory inventory has already been
prepared by the new HOC maintenance organization set up in a pilot province.
The BPR drafts the Five-Year Development Programs and Annual Budgets for
development. The drafts are reviewed by the MOC and revised in consultation
with the EPB and Ministry of Finance (MOF) and finally incorporated into
the National Five-Year Economic Development Plans and Annual Budgets. In
reviewing the drafts, the aim is to make the programs consistent with the
national development and financial targets established by the EPB and the
HOF. The BPR is also responsible for giving technical advice on all highway
matters to the Government, including the MOHA and the provinces; it reviews
proposals originating from these bodies for road improvements and grants for
maintenance. Planning of provincial roads is the responsibility of the
provinces, and city and county roads are planned by the local authorities
concerned.
3.16      The Government originally planned to spend a total of Won 227
billion at 1970 prices on highways under the Third Five-Year Economic Plan
(1972-76) but this has been revised to Won 268 billion (US$554 million) at
current prices. This amount includes about Won 192 billion for national
highways and Won 36 billion for provincial and local roads. Because of cost
increases, the target for national highways was scaled down to 500 km from
1,000 km for new construction or major reconstruction including realignments,
and to about 3,000 km from 4,000 km for paving, including minor improvements.
For provincial roads, the target remains, for the present, to pave and
improve a total of about 3,500 km. Original targets proved optimistic since
unit costs are exceeding those used in the plan; also the time required to
prepare and execute projects may have been underestimated. However, the
revised allocation of Won 268 billion is likely to be substantially spent.
This compares with Won 123 billion in the Second Five-Year Development Plan
(1967-71) (Table 2), but although almost double at current prices, it
probably will represent little increase at constant prices. The physical
targets are reasonable in relation to: (a) the present condition of the
natlonal, provincial and local road networks (para 3.02); (b) the current
level of traffic on national highways (para 3.05); and (c) the probable
increases in traffic to meet transport demad (para 3.07).
3.17      Data on expenditures on provincial and local roads are incomplete
from 1972 (Table 8), but it appears that expenditures on roads in recent
years have been much lower than revenue from road user charges (Table 9).
Budgetary provision for each year is based on the estimated road user charges.
These exclude import duties, but include: (i) 75% of the gasoline and
diesel tax and 100% of the transport tax levied on public passenger traffic



on roads (these items accrue to the Government highway budget); and (ii) the
vehicle tax, vehicle acquisition tax and registration fees (which accrue
to the highways budgets of the provinces, cities and counties).  Total
taxation on motor vehicles is rather high for a developing country.  In
particulars the taxes on vehicle acquisition and ownership are high and the
Government is considering gradually reducing these taxes but has recently
increased taxes on vehicle use, particularly increasing the taxes on gasoline
and diesel fuel.
E. Highwa Design and Construction
3e18      The responsibilities for the design and construction of various
classes of roads are shown in Table 7. The BPR is responsible for design
and supervision of construction of national highways, and for establishing
standards for other Government-financed roadworks and for reviewing proposals
submitted by provinces and local authorities. In the case of major construc-
tion projects, consultants are usually employed for design and to assist with
supervision, particularly when financed by international agencies; the
Government's supervisory duties are now normally exercised through the TCMOs
of the HOC, but in a few cases they are delegated to the KHC. Other works
on national highways are designed and supervised by the TCMOs, sometimes with
the assistance of consultants, and under the general direction of the BPR.
The KHC was responsible for design (under the technical direction of the
BPR) of toll expressways; it also supervised their construction. The BPR
has prepared design standards for national highways (Table 10). These are
divided into two parts, one for new construction, or major reconstruction with
substantial realignment, while alternative standards have been devised for
paving of existing highways with minimum realignment and improvement. Both
Rets of standards are reasonable for their purposes.
3.19      Many sections of gravel-surfaced national highways are carrying
traffic volumes beyond their capacity. In some cases, the traffic levels,
together with the scope for improving and shortening the alignment, justify
new construction. For the remainder, the MOC has prepared an extensive
paving program with minimum realignment and improvement. The consultants
BCEOM (France) assisted in preparing the paving program as part of the High-
way Maintenance Study carried out under the First Highway Project, Loan
769-KOo Also under Loan 769-KO, and as part of this paving program, BCEOM,
in association with three Korean firms, studied and engineered highways
totalling about 634 km and these are being paved, including widening and
improvement, under the Second Highway Project, Loan 956-KO. Also under the
First Highway Project, the MOC has had another slice of the paving program
prepared by consultants Wilbur Smith and Louis Berger (both US) and Kampsax
(Denmark), in association with seven Korean firms; the paving of these nine
highways, totalling 601 km, is included in the proposed project. Further,
under the Second Highway Project, the MOC has employed Louis Berger, in
association with eight Korean firms, to study and engineer a further slice



- 12 -
of the paving program for national roads as well as several high priority
provincial roads.
3 20      Virtually all construction and paving is carried out by contracts
which are awarded after competitive bidding. This has provided a large and
increasing volume of work and forms the basis for the Government's successful
policy of promoting the growth of the domestic contracting industry. Further
assistance in the initial stages was provided through Government loans on
favorable terms to contracting firms for the purchase of equipment. There
is now a well established and efficient domestic contracting industry, with
about 750 firms, including several large ones which undertake works overseas
as well as in Korea. Foreign contractors have had little success, because
of price competition, in obtaining civil engineering work in Korea, though
a number of firms have expressed interest in bidding. Some minor construction
is undertaken by force account by the TCMOs, PCBs, and City and County
Construction Sections. The army is responsible for roadworks in the northern
border area.
3.21      The choice of construction methods is left to the contractors,
subject to complying with performance specifications. The Government does
not impose any conditions or incentives to influence the relative use of
equipment or labor. The larger works, because of the nature of the opera-
tions, tend to be carried out predominantly with equipment. On the other
hand the smaller local authorities, particularly counties, tend to use a
greater proportion of labor on their force account works because they have
only a very limited amount of equipment and much of the work is of a nature
which can be fairly easily adapted to hand methods. For example, many small
access roads are being constructed and improved through local community
effort (the Saemaeul movement) and Bank assistance with this work is being
considered as part of the proposed Rural Infrastructure Project.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.22      Although there has been some improvement in recent years, the
maintenance of highways is still unsatisfactory. The maintenance agencies
(Table 7) have inadequate staff, equipment and finances to maintain the
national, provincial and local road systems. Except for the expressways,
the existing paved roads are not being promptly repaired, nor are their
surfaces renewed periodically on a systematic basis as required to prevent
further deterioration and eventual collapse. The majority of the roads,
which are gravel surfaced, are incorrectly shaped and inadequately drained.
These conditions, combined with relatively high traffic volumes, causes the
road system, including the national highways, to be in poor condition and
road transport costs are unnecessarily high.
3.23      The MOC therefore had the consultants BCEOM (France) carry out
a Highway Maintenance Study under the First Highway Project. Their plan,
which was accepted by the Government, was for a new field organization to



- 13 -
be set up, within the MOC, to maintain national highways. The provincial
and local authorities will then be relieved of all work on national highways,
which presently absorbs over 60% of their entire financial and other resources
devoted to roads; they will thus have the capacity to maintain provincial
and local roads at a satisfactory level. As the first stage of the BCEOM
plan, the MOC established in September 1972 its new maintenance organization
in a pilot province; it consisted of two field sections (districts) which;
were recently renamed National Highway Maintenance Offices (NHHOs), with
equipment financed under the First Highway Project. The second stage of
the BCEOM plan, which was also accepted by the Government, covers the
extension of the MOC field organization to the remaining eight provinces.
This entails setting up of a further 17 NHMOs, making a total of 19, to
cover the entire national highway network. Each will have a depot, with an
office, workshop and equipment.
3.24      Under the Agreement for the Second Highway Project, Loan 956-KO,
the Government undertook to complete the establishment of the MOC nation-wide
highway maintenance organization in accordance with an agreed program, with
equipment to be financed under that project. However, there were adminis-
trative delays in drafting and approving the decrees authorizing the new
organization and they were published June 18, 1975 instead of June 30, 1974.
Nevertheless the Government is now pressing ahead with the installation of
the new organization under a revised implementation schedule which was
proposed by the Government and accepted by the Bank (Table 11). This
indicates that the depots, workshops and other installations are expected
to be completed by March 1, 1976, and that the organization will be fully
staffed and equipped and will have completed taking over the maintenance
of national highways by October 1, 1976.
3.25      Arrangements have been made to obtain the staff required, partly
by transfers from other parts of the MOC, and partly by recruitment, and
for their training through courses conducted by the Ministry's Training
Center, and by attachment, in rotation, to the two field sections operating
in the pilot province. Starting in 1973, the overseas training program
financed under the First Highway Project is training a total of eleven of
the staff of the MOC and MOT: five in transport economics, one in traffic
engineering, one in highway engineering and four in highway maintenance.
The courses for all trainees are in progress except in transport economics
where two have been completed and two are expected to start shortly. BCEOM
are continuing to provide technical assistance, as an extention of the
maintenance study. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government (reiterating the undertakings given in the Agreement for
Loan 956-KO, Section 3.12) that it will: (i) cause the National Highway
Network to be adequately maintained, and will make adequate arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the timely provision of funds and resources
required for that purpose; and (ii) establish the MOC field organization in
accordance with the revised schedule (Table 11).



- 14 -
!V. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      "Me object of the project is to assist in improving the highway
system to meet the growing traffic by extending the network of all weather
paved nghtRye between the main centers of population by nearly 800 km and,
through ctne:1.ano and engineering, prepare future improvement projects.
4.02      The project consists of:
6a) nsot=5wuct.on9 chiefly on new alignments, including paving,
of about 195 km of four national highways, including
supervision of the work by consultants;
(b)  pEaing and improvement, chiefly on present alignments,
of nine national highways totalling about 600 km, including
sVupervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed
engineering if found justified.
(a) ConEstruction
4.03      Four sections of national highways totalling about 195 km, des-
cribed in Aimex A, will be constructed, chiefly on new alignments, with two-
lane pavements:
(i)  Sewul (Seongnam)-Icheon (43 km);
(ii)  Daegu-'asan (85 km);
(iii)  Pohang-Yeongdeog (45 km); and
(iv) S,ndheon-Beolgyo (22 km).
The existing roads are rough, narrow, poorly aligned, and unpaved except for
a few sections in or near the main towns. In each case it was found that
reconstruction masnly on new alignment was justified in view of the nature
of the p-crnet road, the scope for improving the alignment, and the present
and expected future traffic volumes. The new roads are designed to "con-
struction" standards (Table 10, Part A). Present average travel speeds are
generally around 30 to 35 km/h, while the new alignments are based on design
speeds of 100 km/h in rolling terrain, and 70 km/h in hilly terrain, though
a few short sections in mountainous areas have a design speed of 50 km/h.
The pavement width is 7.20 m.



- 15 -
4.04      Feasibility studies were carried out in 1972-73, by consultants
Wilbur Smith and Associates (US) for roads (i) and (ii), and by Louis
Berger (US) in association with Kampsax (Denmark) on roads (iii) and (iv).
Detailed engineering of all four roads was carried out between late 1973
and 1974 by Wilbur Smith and Associates in association with Louis Berger and
Kaupsax, assisted by seven local firms for topographical surveys and soils
and materials investigations. The feasibility studies and engineering were
financed under the First Highway Project Loan 769-KO.
(b) Pavin
4.05      Nine sections of national highways, totalling about 600 km des-
cribed in Annex 2, will be paved with two-lane width, mainly on their present
alignments, but with improvement of curves and widening of the roadway and
shoulders. The roads are:
(i)  Icheon-Judeog (53 km);
- * *.. i..j',,zheon (10-  km);
(iii) Maepo-Andong (87 km);
(iv)  Weonju-Hayeong (40 km);
(v) Yeongdeog-Uljin (76 km);
(vi)  UlJin-Samcheog (71 km);
(vii) Beolgyo-Gangjin (67 km);
(viiJ) Seongjeon-Mogpo (40 km); and
(ix)  Sangju-Gasan (64 km).
In addition to paving, the road level will be raised and ditches and culverts
constructed to improve drainage, and existing bridges widened or reconstruc-
ted, or new ones constructed were necessary. The pavement width will vary,
according to traffic levels, from 6 m to 7 m and shoulder widths from 0.65 m
to 2 m.
4.06      Feasibility studies and detailed engineering of the roads were
carried out under the First Highway Project Loan 769-KO. Feasibility studies
of roads (i)--(iv), and (ix) were carried out by Wilbur Smith and Associates,
and feasibility studies of roads (v)-(viii) were carried out by Louis Berger,
in association with Kampsax. Detailed engineering of all the roads was
carried out, as for the new construction (para 4.04), by Wilbur Smith
Associates in association with Louis Berger and Kampsax, assisted by seven
local firms.



- 16 -
(c) Supervision of Construction and Paving
4.07      The Government intends to have supervision of construction of the
Daegu-Masan highway (para 4.03) carried out jointly by the Korea Highway
Corporation (KHC) and the design consultants Wilbur Smith and Associates,
in association with Louis Berger and Kampsax. This is similar to the
arrangement for supervising construction under the Second Highway Project
(for which Ingeroute were the consultants) which has worked well. Most of
the field staff are provided by KHC, but a small number of personnel pro-
vided by the consultants enables them to exercise over-all control in
interpreting the designs and specifications, including suggesting amendments
as found necessary during construction, and has produced good quality work.
4.08      The Government intends to have supervision of construction of
the remaining three highways (para 4.03) and of paving of the nine highways
(para 4.05) carried out jointly by the new Territoria7dC-onstruction a-ndI
Management Offices (TCMOs) and the design consultants Wilbur Smith and
Associates in association with Louis Berger and Kampsax. The TCMOs will
provide most of the field staff, but the design consultants will supply the
minimum number of staff needed to insure proper interpretation, and variation,
of designs and specifications, as well as to back up the rather new and
untried TCMOs in insuring adequate quality of the works carried out by the
contractors. The Government confirmed during negotiations that consultants
acceptable to the Bank will be employed for supervision, under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and that no contract will
be awarded for construction or paving until the supervision consultants have
been appointed.
(d) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.09      The project includes feasibility studies by consultants, to be
followed by detailed engineering if found justified, of about 1,200 km of
roads for future projects. The Government has selected a tentative list of
roads, but this is still being reviewed and will be subject to later agree-
ment with the Bank. They are expected to consist mainly of national highways,
though the Government is reviewing the provincial road network to screen out
high priority sections for inclusion in the study. Both national and
provincial roads selected would be among the higher priority roads to be
included in the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan to start in 1977. It
was confirmed during loan negotiations that the Government will: (i) employ
qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank, and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out the feasibility
studies and detailed engineering; (ii) select roads for the feasibility
studies, and sections for subsequent detailed engineering, in agreement
with the Bank; and (iii) will not carry out any works other than maintenance
or minor improvements on the highways selected for studies and engineering
without first consulting the Bank.
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.10      The total cost of the project, including contingencies allowances,
is estimated at about US$220 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange



- 17 -
component estimated at about US$90 million, or 41%. The estimated
costs are shown in Table 12, and are summarized below. The estimated
average costs per km, excluding contingency allowances (including contin-
gency allowances shown in parentheses) are: (a) for construction US$379,000
(US$449,000); (b) for paving US$120,000 (US$142,000); (c) for supervision
by consultants US$10,050 (US$11,900); and (d) for feasibility studies and
detailed engineering by consultants, for construction, improvement and
paving US$2,750 (US$3,250).
Foreign
Won (million)           US$ (million)         Exchange
ProJect Element      Local   Foreign  Tote'   Local  Foreign  Total  Component
A. Construction of
four Highways    19,726   16,139  35,865   40.6    33.3    73.9         45
B. Pavin6 of nife
Highways          19,200   15.710  34.910   39.6    32.4    72.0         45
Subtotal A & B       38,926   31.849  70.775   80.2    65.7   145.9         45
C. Consulting
Services:
(a) Supervision
A & B          2,716    1,164   3,880    5.6       2.4      8.0     30
(b) Feasibility
Studies &
Detailed
Engineering   1.115       485   1,600    2.3       1.0      3.3     30
Subtotal C            3,831    1.649   5,480    7.9       3.4    11.3       30
D. Contingency
Allowances:
(a) Physical /a   4,275    3,350   7,625    8.8        6.9    15.7
(b) Price /b       8.640    6X780  15,420   17.8    14.0    31.8
Subtotal D           12,915   10.130  23,045   26.6    20.9    47.5
Total Cost of Works    6       43628  99,300  114.7    90.0   204.7         44
E. Right of Way       7,760             7,760   16.0      -       16.0
Total Project Cost  63,432                      130.7    90.0   220.7      41
/a   10% on all items.
lb Price escalation assumed to be at the annual rates of 12% in 1976,
and 10% in 1977 and each year thereafter, for both foreign and local
costs.



- 18 -
4elJ      0oC   esii>ates for construction of the four highway sections
(para. l.03) 9 &vt for paving of the nine sections of highways (para 4.05) were
prepaEed by Wilbu-a Smith/Louis Berger/Kampsax on the basis of detailed bills
of quanti t2in  after completing detailed engineering, using the unit prices
for si ilzr work nbtsined from competitive bidding in late 1973 and early
1974' on t':@ Secard Highway Project, adjusted. to cover increases in costs
estimated to Kareh 1976, when bids are scheduled to be received.
4.12      The cost estimates for consulting services for supervision of
construct-on an,t paving, and for feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing of further highways, are based on previous contracts with consultants
for similar work, with costs updated to cover increases estimated to late
1976. The foreign exchange costs are relatively low because of the large
and increasing proportion of Koreans employed on the work.
4.13      Contingency allowances include 10% for physical quantities of
work to be carried out, and for price escalation at average annual rates of
12% in 1976, and 10% during each year thereafter both for foreign and local
costs. The cost estimates and contingency allowances are considered reason-
able, and during loan negotiations they were reviewed and agreed with the
Government.
4.14      The consultants estimate the foreign exchange component of the
highway construction and paving works at about 45% if carried out by local
contractors. Under both the First and Second Highway Projects, all contracts
have been won by local firms. It is likely that all contracts under the
proposed project will also be won by local contractors, and the foreign
exchange component for construction and paving has therefore been calculated
at 45%. This is higher than estimated under the First Highway Project (40%)
and Second Highway Project (35%), chiefly because of the greater proportion-
ate increase in import prices of petroleum and petroleum products (which
have more than quadrupled) and other imported materials and equipment
compared with domestic prices. The foreign exchange component of the
consulting services is estimated at 30%, based on experience in recent
contracts with consulting firms, and the probable proportions of foreign
and Korean staff to be employed.
C. Financing
4.15      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$220 million;
the for@ign exchange costs, to be financed by the loan, are about US$90 mil-
lion, and local cests about US$130 million (Table 12). The Government has
provided promptly the funds needed for expenditures under the First and
Second Highway Projects, and it was confirmed during loan negotiations that
it will make timely provision for funds required to carry out the project.
Furthermore the Government has requested a loan of US$35 million from the
Saudi Fund for Development.



- 19 -
D. Implementation
4.16      The MDC will be responsible for carrying out the project, through
its BPR, as in the case of the First and Second Highway Projects. Consult-
ants will assist in supervising the construction and paving of highways,
and in carrying out feasibility studies and detailed engineering for future
projects. During negotiations, agreement in principle was reached with the
Government on the terms of the proposed agreement between MOC and KHC for
supervision of construction of the Daegu-Masan highway (para 4.07), comr-
patible with preserving the responsibilities of the consultants.
4.17      All highway construction and paving will be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by
pre-qualified firms, in accordance with the Bank Groups "Guidelines for
Procurement", and on the advice of the consultants. The Government has
already advertised internationally in accordance with the guidelines, and
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will
follow the Bank procedures for procurement.
4.18      Contractors may choose their own construction methods, subject to
the works complying with the specifications, and make their own judgments
as to the optimum use of equipment and labor. The contracts for construction
and paving are expected to be awarded during the first half of 1976 and to
take about three years. The feasibility studies are expected to be started
in the second half of 1976, and detailed engineering to be carried out in
1978.   The works are expected to be completed during the first half of 1979.
Allowing for making final payments, and completing disbursements, the closing
date for the loan will be December 31, 1979. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government on a schedule for project execution (Table 13)
and on arrangements for reporting progress.
4.19      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
ecological effects. The works have been designed to provide adequately
for drainage, and to avoid erosion. Location of alignments for new con-
struction has, as far as possible, avoided buildings and rice paddies or
other intensively cultivated land; the alignments of the highways to be
paved largerly follow the existing roads, minimizing the additional right-
of-way required, and therefore the disturbance to property. Although
acquisition of the right-of-way has not posed any significant problem on
previous highway projects, confirmation was obtained during negotiations
that such acquisition will be completed on each highway section before a
contract for construction or paving of the section is awarded.
E. Disbursements
4.20      Disbursements from the Loan will be on the basis of:  (i) 45% of
the total cost of construction and paving; (ii) 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of the consultants' services. On that basis, and on the schedule for



- 20 -
execution of the project (para 4.18), a Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
has been prepared (Table 14); this was reviewed and agreed with the Govern-
ment during negotiations.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Third Highway Project will continue Bank assistance to Korea
in improving and modernizing the road transport system. The benefits
accruing from the project are essentially a reduction of unnecessary high
costs of moving goods and people and provision of easier access to some
isolated areas with high economic development potential. The project will
help to cope with the present and planned growth of the transport demand
of this fast growing, export-oriented economy and assist the Government's
policy for decentralizing industry. The demand for road transport regis-
tered in recent years the highest increase of all modes for freight and
passengers, in spite of a severe but apparently temporary slowdown affect-
ing each year since 1971 with the exception of 1973 (paras 3.03 to 3.07).
5.02      The highway construction (195 km) and paving (600 km) elements of
the project will help the Government's efforts to achieve targets for the
construction of about 500 km of national highways and the paving and improve-
ment of another 3,000 km including provincial roads, during the Third Five-
Year Development Plan (1972-76). The project also provides for further
feasibility and detailed engineering studies for the improvement and paving
of about 1,200 km of road in preparation of a possible future project.
5.03      This project supports the Government's present strategy in the
1972-76 Plan of giving emphasis to the paving of existing gravel roads,
which still account for over half of the national network, rather than con-
centrating chiefly on the construction of new high-standard highways.
Feasibility studies of roads have shown that for most sections, at the
present time, the optimum first stage of improvement is to pave the road
largely on the present alignment, with only minimum improvement of sharp
curves, etc., and widening and improvements of drainage. The lower cost
of such work permits the paving of two or three times the length of road
which could be newly constructed. However, there are some sections where
factors, including the traffic volumes, inadequacy of present alignments,
possibility of substantial shortening of the routes, etc., justify immediate
construction on new alignments. The present approach of minimizing and
phasing investments, increases the feasibility of road projects and enables
the highway system to meet a much larger total transport demand at lower
cost; it follows the recommendations of the consultants and of the Bank.
5.04      The economic analysis of the project roads, carried out by two
separate teams of consultants, Wilbur Smith (US) and Louis Berger/Kampsax
(US/Denmark) in Feasibility Studies completed in mid 1973, was up-dated in



- 21 -
the detailed engineering study carried out jointly by the above firms and
completed early 1975. The economic setting and the present traffic volumes
of the roads for construction and for paving are described in Annexes 1 and
2. The consultants' estimated traffic assignment, expected volumes and
growth rates (Tables 15 and 16) are based on regular MOC counts between
1965 and 1971 and on the MOC's last detailed traffic origin and destination
survey conducted in 1969. The consultants supplemented those counts with
special counts performed in June 1972 which was taken as the base year.
However, due to the major changes related to the increases of prices of im-
ported oil and raw materials which affected the Korean economy since the
publication of the original feasibility studies, supplementary counts were
made in May 1974. Figures were adjusted in line with prevailing growth
rates to produce the 1975 traffic data.
5.05      The expected growth rates of normal traffic, averaged for all
vehicles, vary from 8.2% to 9.9% p.a. among the project roads, based not
only on past traffic growth, but on past and expected increases of the
GNP, on population forecasts, and on regional per capita income. The rates
were adjusted to take into account the recent slow-down in the rates of in-
crease in the production and registration of vehicles and of gasoline con-
sumption (Tables 4, 5 and 6) but took into account that vehicle licensing
regulations would be relaxed (paras 3.03 to 3.07). The generated or induced
traffic is expected to increase total traffic by amounts ranging from 9.2%
to 30.2% among the project roads. These increases are derived from studies
of earlier cases where the elasticity of demand of road transport as a
function of the reduction of operating costs was measured. The rates were
adjusted to take account of development potential of industries such as
fishing, timber, tourism or other activities. Traffic diversion from other
roads will occur for seven of the eleven project roads, but will be sig-
nificant only for Seoul (Seongnam) - Icheon (1240 aadt) and Daegu-Masan
(744 aadt). Minor traffic diversion from rail on six roads may occur but
is expected to account for only a small amount of the predicted road traffic.
The greatest diversion is expected on Seoul (Seongnam) - Icheon, but even
there is likely to be only 125 load vehicles/day, or about 6% of total
traffic on the road. On the other five roads, the diversion from rail will
represent even smaller amounts of road traffic, varying between 17 and 68
vehicles/day.
B. Highway Construction
5.06      The four road sections for construction (Annex 1) are scattered
throughout the country but are located mostly in the immediate influence
areas of fast growing cities such as Seoul, Daegu, Masan and Pohang. The
Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon Highway (43 km) will provide a new access to Seoul
and so help to reduce traffic congestion on roads on the south side of the
city; it will also aid the planned expansion of the Seoul metropolitan
area toward the south-east. Also the road with its new alignment and tun-
nel will substantially shorten (by 23 km) the distance between Seoul and
Icheon compared to the alternative road which deviates around the north of



- 22 -
inqtzln range.  Considerable diversion of traffic to the new road is
erpazted from the old road and from Seoul-Icheon traffic presently using a still
longer route via the Seoul-Singal and Singal-Icheon sections of the Seoul-
Ban emd Singal-Wonju expressways.
5.07      Similarly the Daegu-Masan highway (85 km) will help to reduce
congestion on the present road accesses to Daegu by adding a new access
which will also act as a beltway for the west side of the city. The road
will serve the growing existing local and through traffic between Daegu and
Masan. It will also attract a considerable amount of traffic now travelling
between Daegu and the Masan-Busan area via the longer alternative route
through Busan, using the Seoul-Busan toll expressway and the Busan-Masan
Section of Jeonju-Busan highway. The longer alternative is chosen now for
many Journeys because of savings in journey time and comfort, compared to
the exi-ting Daegu-Masan road which is poorly designed and rough surfaced.
The economic evaluation shows that the expensive new Daegu-Masan highway
is largely justified by the substantial diversion of traffic described
above.
5.08      The Pohang-Yeongdeog highway (45 km) serves an isolated area of
the east coast. The existing poor gravel road is the only access as the
railway line started during the Japanese occupation was never completed.
Thns north-eouth corridor between the mountains and the sea has considera-
ble potential for agriculture, fisheries, forestry and tourism and recrea-
tion along the scenic sea shore, but these resources are under-developed.
The recent introduction of the steel industry and related activities in
Pohang (population 120,000) has contributed to the increase in transport
demand in the area.
5.09      The Suncheon-Beolgyo highway (22 km) in the south-east serves an
essentially agricultural area, producing rice and vegetables, mainly to-
matoes in numerous greenhouses, and fish in the coastal villages. The new
and improved alignment will eliminate seven railway crossings which presently
increase the hazards for traffic on the existing winding road.
510      The benefits from the proposed construction of those four roads
were determined as the difference or savings in road user costs with and
without the project, for the normal and diverted traffic and for part of
the generated traffic; benefits also comprise travel time savings but these
are restricted to working time, and reduction in road maintenance costs.
The average vehicle operating costs for each road are given in Table 16
and were assessed for typical vehicles; savings on the new roads range be-
tween 36% to 61% for cars, 42% to 55% for buses and 46% to 54% for trucks,
taking into account road standards, traffic density, speed and side friction.
The savings in working time for light vehicles were quantified on the basis
of 545 Won/hr per average car which comprises 60% taxis, 20 to 25% Govern-
ment cars and 15 to 20% private cars. Working time savings were quantified
only for the driver and helpers of buses and trucks and were valued at 504
Won/h per bus and 399 Won/h per truck. Benefits from reduction of accidents
were also quantified but are not significant.



- 23 -
5e11      The streams of costs and benefits are shown in detail in Table 18.
Economic returns (ERs) for each road, calculated over an assumed 20 years
service life of the investment, vary between 21% and 37%. The sensitivity
of the ERs was tested by varying construction costs by ± 15% and benefits
by ± 25%. Under the pessimistic assumption of an increase in construction
cost concurrent with a decrease in benefits, the ERs would be between 14%
and 28% (Table 20). Exclusion of passenger time savings would reduce the
above returns by about two percentage points. Thus, the highway construc-
tion element of the project is amply justified. The traffic forecasts and
economic evaluation of the roads, both for construction and for paving,
have been based on the assumption that tolls will not be levied on them.
The Government confirmed during negotiations that any tolls would only be
levied on any section of the highways to be constructed or paved under the
project after carrying out an economic evaluation satisfactory to the Bank
and with the agreement of the Bank.
C. Highway Paving
5.12      The nine road sections to be paved under the project are located
in five different provinces. Five roads are in the eastern central part
of the country and two along the east coast, all oriented north-south. The
two remaining roads are located in the south-western region and run east-
west. All nine roads are national highways but serve largely regional in-
terests as they link towns and villages to major arteries. Their improve-
ment will assist the development of regions which are densely populated but
presently rather isolated. The areas served depend essentially on agricul-
ture, particularly on rice, barley, cabbage and other vegetables in most
areas. In the Andong area, there is also fruit and tobacco, while on the
east coast there is fishing, forestry and tourism. Coal mining and cement
plants are located in the mountain ranges in the center and east near Yeon-
gpung, Maepo and Samcheog. The present gravel roads were selected among a
priority list established from traffic counts by the MOC. They are typical
of roads included in a paving program, with traffic volumes ranging between
140 and 640 aadt, and require little or no realignment, within the service-
life of the roads, to satisfy their multi-purpose transport function. Also
the width and type of pavement are related to the traffic levels, including
the use of Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) on the four roads
which have the least traffic. Annex 2 gives additional details on the
economic activities in the areas served by the roads.
5.13      The assessed benefits result about 60% to 70% from savings in
vehicle operating costs due to the improved conditions on the newly paved
highways compared with the existing rough gravelled roads, about 15% from
reduction in road maintenance costs, and about 10% each from reduction in



- 24 -
travel time and generation of new traffic. The average vehicle operating
costs, are shown in Table 16 and take into account highway standards, ter-
rain condition and vehicle speed. The transport costs per km will be re-
duced by 27% to 45% for light vehicles and for taxies, by 25% to 36% for
buses and by 22% to 36% for trucks. As the roads will follow closely their
existing alignments, negligible benefit is obtained from distance reduction,
but savings occur from reduced travel time due to increased speed of ve-
hicles. Hourly time values per vehicle are identical with those used in the
analysis of the highways for construction (para 5.10). In addition to re-
duced travel costs benefiting the road users, part of which may be passed
on to urban consumers and to farmers in the areas served, benefits were
quantified for the reduction of accidents due to better roads surface and
the provision of overpasses at railroad crossings. The new pavements would
bring also other non-quantified benefits such as quicker and improved serv-
ices, reduction of the nuisance caused by heavy dust resulting from increas-
ing traffic on the existing gravel surfaces.
5.14      The estimated streams of costs and benefits over the assumed 20
years service-life of the investments and economic returns (ERs) for each
road are shown in detail in Table 19. ERs range between 15% and 37% with
passenger time savings included, and between 12% and 33% without. The
sensitivity of the ERs was tested under the same assumption as for the
highway construction (para 5.11) and the pessimistic assumption gives ERs
ranging between 10% and 28% (Table 20). These returns are satisfactory
to justify the paving element of the project.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances on a
number of matters, the more important ones being that it will:
(a) (i) cause the National Highway Network to be adequately
maintained, and will make adequate arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank for the timely provision of funds
and resources required for that purpose and (ii) establish
the MOC field organization for maintaining the National
Highway Network in accordance with the revised schedule
(para 3.25);
(b) (i) only levy tolls on any section of the highways to be con-
- -structed or paved as part of the project after carrying
out an economic evaluation satisfactory to the Bank and
with the agreement of the Bank (para 5.11), and (ii) prepare
and submit to the Bank for review a policy statement relating
to the Government's toll road system including the functions,
responsibilities and budget of the KHC (para 3.12).
6.02     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$90 million (represent-
ing about 41% of total cost) for a period of 24 years, including a 4-year
period of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Highways to be Constructed (including paving)
1.        The four roads in this part of the project will be constructed,
chiefly on new alignments, with two-lane pavements to design standards for
construction (Table 10, Part A).
A. Seoul (Seongnam) - Icheon (43 km)
2.        The northern starting point of the project road is at Seongnam
(population 200,000), a rapidly expanding new city 13 km south of a new
six lane bridge over the Han River in Seoul (population over 6 million).
The existing road between Seoul and Seongnam is paved, partly six-lane and
partly four-lane. Between Seongnam and Gwangju (population 15,000) 14 kin,
there is only a low grade unpaved mountainous track, which is winding and
with gradients of 10, and on some short segments up to 13%; the track is
impassable during wet periods. From Gwangju to Icheon, (population 23,000)
29 km, the existing road is two-lane gravel surfaced and is poorly aligned
for most of its length, narrow (much of it only 8 m including shoulders)
and gradients reach 10% in some places. The gravel surface is quite inade-
quate for even the present traffic, and is very rough. Also, there are
several narrow and very congested sections through villages. At Icheon,
there is an interchange with the recently constructed Suwon (Singal)-
Weonju-Gangreung Highway.
3.        The new highway will be constructed on a better alignment, with
7.20 m wide asphalt concrete two-lane pavement and 3 m wide shoulders. Be-
tween Seongnam and Gwangju, the design speed is 120 km/h on the flatter
sections at each end; in the center section the road crosses a mountain
divide, where the design speed is reduced 70 km/h, and there will be a 300
m long tunnel to permit a better alignment (including reduction in gradients
to a maximum of 7%) and to reduce rock excavation. Between Gwangju and
Icheon, the design speed is mainly 100 km/h except for two hilly areas
north of Icheon, where it is 70 km/h, and the maximum gradient is 6%. The
new road is designed for ultimate divided four-lane width, and for the pro-
vision of eventual grade separated interchanges at Seongnam and Gwangju.
The construction includes eleven bridges between 15 m and 205 m in length.
From Icheon, southwards to Judeog, the existing unpaved road is to be paved
under the project (Annex 2, Section A).



ANNEX: 1
Page 2
4.        Present traffic volume is about 920 annual average daily traffic
(&&dt) at the outskirts of Seoul and decreases to about 460 aadt near
Icheon, except for a 14 km section between Seongnam and Gwangju where traf-
fic is only 80 aadt. The bad condition of that section of road crossing a
mountainous range deters traffic from using it, although it is shorter by
about 20 km than the alternative northern route which is used by most ve-
hicles. The traffic composition ranges from about 8% to 15% for light ve-
hicles, 11% to 49% for buses and 43Z to 80% for trucks. At the opening of
the new road in 1978, the weighted average traffic is expected to exceed
2,000 aadt. This would include a considerable amount of diverted traffic,
of about 1,200 aadt. Most of the traffic diverted would be from the longer
alternatives via the northern route and via the Seoul-Singal-Icheon (toll)
expressway but also a small amount from rail (about 125 aadt); generated
traffic would be about 100 aadt. The growth rates assumed from normal and
generated traffic are given in Table 16. The road is located within the
influence of metropolitan Seoul and directly serves expanding industrial
and residential areas as well as through traffic to the southeast of Seoul.
Services and light industries, and the production of vegetables for the
Seoul market, are developing rapidly.
B. Daegu - Masan (85 km)
5.        The present road is 95 km long and is unpaved except for 24 km
at the northern end in and near the city of Daegu (population 1,200,000)
and very short sections through the towns of Hyeonpung (population 13,000)
Changnyeong (population 25,000), Yeongsan (population 15,000) and Nangi
(population 21,000). At the southern end the road joins the Masan-Jinju
Highway, about 3 km west of Masan (population 320,000). The gravel surfac-
ing is extremely rough, narrow (varying from a 7 to 10 m including shoulders)
and the alignment is generally poor, with average travel speeds of 30 to
35 km/h. The paved sections are mainly in villages or built up areas,
where travel speed is limited by congestion.
6.        The new road (85 km) will be constructed on a new alignment with
7 20 m wide asphalt concrete two-lane pavment, and 3 a wide shoulders.
The design provides for ultimate widening to divided four-lane width.  At
the northern end, the new alignment is located around the north west perime-
ter of the city of Daegu, and will form part of its planned ring road. Pro-
vision has been made for future interchanges. The new alignment then crosses
a mozatainous area southwest of Daegu, including a 620 m long tunnel. At
the southern end, the road will join the new Jinju-Masan-Busan Highway where
an interchange will be constructed. A total of 30 bridges will be built
including a 680 m long bridge over the Nagdong River near Namji; the re-
maining bridges vary in length from 12 m to 420 m.
7.        The present traffic varies between 1,850 and 1,500 aadt for the
first 13 km south of Daegu and drops to about 500 aadt for the balance of
the road to the Masan interchange. The traffic composition is about 50%



ANNEX 1
Page 3
truck, 35% buses and 15% light vehicles. The weighted average traffic ex-
pected at the opening of the road in 1978 is about 1,850 aadt and comprises
substantial diversion from the alternative route via the Seoul-Busan toll
expressway (750 aadt) and some from rail (70 aadt); generated traffic would
amount to about 200 aadt.  The road will serve as a beltway for the west
part of Daegu where most of the industrial and residential expansion has
been planned. It will also link Daegu with the Masan-Jinhae area which is
also developing rapidly with its Free Zone Industrial Complex, the Changwon in-
dustrial complex, and other activities. The area is densely populated and
agriculture is diversified including rice, cabbage and fruits; fish is also
produced, in pdbds.
C. Pohang - Yeongdeog (45 km)
8.        The present road from Pohang to Yeongdeog is 48 km long and
gravel surfaced, except for a paved section for the last 7 km between Gang-
gu and Yeongdeog. The remainder of the road has a rough gravel surface
width from 7 m to 9 m including shoulders. The paved section through the
largely built up area of Ganggu-Yeongdeog has a narrow and irregular pave-
ment and shoulders (generally 6 m wide pavement and 1 m shoulders). The
road runs parallel with the coast and crosses a number of rivers, and some
hilly sections. The alignment is poor in many sections; the masimum gradi-
ent is about 8% and average travel speed is 30 to 35 km/h.
9.        The new road will be constructed on an Improved alignment, start-
ing at the end of the existing pavement at the northern side of Pohang.
However, the existing alignment is being retained on a few sections where
the road crosses flat terrain and the alignment is already generally good.
The pavement will be 7.20 m wide, with 1.75 m wide shoulders. The design
speed is generally 100 km/h, except for hilly areas, where it is reduced
to 70 km/h. The maximum gradient is 7% and occurs at only one place. A
total of 13 new bridges will be constructed, ranging from 24 m to 270 m
long. One existing bridge 70 m long is in good condition and will be re-
tained. From Yeongdeog, northwards to Uljin and Samcheog, the existing
tmpaved road is to be paved under the project (Annex 2, Sections I and F).
10.       The present traffic varies from 450 to 600 aadt and comprises 50%
trucks, 35% buses and 15% light vehicles. Traffic volumes in 1978 are fore-
cast to range between about 560 and 1,030 aadt, as the result of normal and
generated growth; no traffic diversion is expected. Except for Pohang and
its steel mill and related activities, there are no industries in the area
but improved communications may help to attract new industries. Agriculture
on the narrow land strip between the mountains and the sea is generally for
subsistence. Fishing is the major activity of Ganggu and Yeongdeog and
the other villages along the coast and should benefit from better transport;
also tourism could develop in the very scenic coastal area.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
D. Suncheon - Beolgyo (22 km)
11.       The present road is 25 km long, and is unpaved.  The alignment
is poor and there are seven railway level crossings (at grade). The
road is narrow (6 m to 8 m wide including shoulders). The maximum gradi-
ents are 7% to 8% in the mountainous area near Beolgyo. Because of the
poor alignment, rough road surface, and the railway level crossings, the
average travel speed is 25 to 30 km/h. West of Beol_yo, the unpaved road
to Mogpo is to be paved under the project (Annex 2, Sections G and H).
12.       The new road (22 km) will be constructed on a new alignment and
will have a design speed of 100 km/h, except for the last one km connecting
with the existing paved streets in Suncheon. Maximum gradients will be
6% and will be short. The road will have a 7.20 m wide asphalt concrete
two-lane pavement, with 1.75 m wide shoulders. Nine bridges are to be con-
structed between 12 m and 150 m long. Three of the bridges will be over
the railway to eliminate level crossings; the remaining four railway level
crossings will be eliminated by the realignment of the road.
13.       The present traffic decreases from 420 to 340 aadt between Suncheon
(population 110,000) and Beolgyo (population 47,000) and its composition
is about 60% trucks, 25% buses and 15% vehicles. The traffic volume is ex-
pected to reach an average of about 600 aadt at the opening of the road
in 1978. The area served by the new road is moderately populated and pro-
duces vegetables, mainly tomatoes in numerous greenhouses, fruit and rice;
also fish in the coastal villages.
January 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Highways to be Paved
1.        The nine roads in this part of the project will be paved, mainly
on their present alignments, but with Improvement of curves and widening
of the roadway and shoulders, to design standards for paving (Table 10,
Part B).
A. Icheon-Judeog (53 km)
2.        The Icheon-Judeog road is a continuation of the Seoul-Icheon
road which is to be constructed under the project (Annex 1). The present
road is generally on a fairly good alignment, but is unpaved, with a rough
gravel surface, and is narrow (generally about 8.5 a total width including
shoulders). The terrain is half flat to rolling and half rolling to hilly.
The maximum gradients are 4% to 6Z and average travel speeds are around 40
km/h. The remaining 12 km between Judeog and Chungju (population 90,000)
is already paved and is not included in the project.
3.        The road will be reconstructed, chiefly on the existing alignment,
and paved with asphalt concrete. The standards will be Paving Type C for
the 21 km between Icheon (population 23,000) and Janghoweon (population
20,000) with a 7 m wide pavement and 2 m wide gravel shoulders.  From
Janghoweon to Judeog, the standards will be Type B, with a 6.70 m pavement
and 1.50 a gravel shoulders. There are 26 bridges on the existing align-
ment. Nine of these will be replaced with box culverts, and three with
new bridges with lengths of 24 m to 40 m. Eight of the remaining 14
bridges will be repaired.
4.        The present traffic decreases from about 640 to 360 aadt between
Icheon and Judeog and is composed of about 60% trucks, 30% buses and 10%
light vehicles. The expected traffic in 1978 when the road is improved,
will vary from about 1,000 to 570 aadt with generated and diverted traffic
from rail and road amounting to about 100 aadt each. The area is densely
populated and prosperous; its main production is rice alternating with
barley or wheat together with cabbages and other vegetables.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Chungju-Giacheon (103 km)
5.        The total length of the existing road between Chungju (population
90,000) and Gimcheon (68,000) is 132 km. However, there are some sections
which are already paved totalling 29 km, mainly a 15 km section north of
Jeoichon (population 41,000) and a 13 ka section north of Gimcheon.  The
remaining 103 km is presently unpaved, with a rough gravel surface and nar-
row; the width is generally 6 m to 8 a wide including shoulders between
Chungju and Sangju, and about 7 a to 10 m wide between Sangju (population
58,000) and Giacheon. Between Chungju and Jeomchon the terrain is pre-
dominantly hilly with some mountainous sections having gradients of 8X
to 9%; average travel speeds are 30 to 35 km/h. From Jeomchon to Sangju,
the first 20 km is mainly mountainous, with gradients or 8% to 9%, and
average travel speeds about 25 km/h. The remainder is generally flat, with
an average travel speed of about 45 km/h. Between Sangju and Gimcheon, the
terrain is flat to rolling except for one short hilly to mountainous section
where the maximum gradient is 8%; average travel speed is 45 km/h on the
present gravel road.
6.        The total unpaved length of 103 km will be reconstructed, mainly
on the existing alignment, and paved with asphalt concrete. However, a
length of about 9 km in Sangju will be realigned, in accordance with the
town plan, to avoid the congested town center. The standards will be Type
B with a 6.70 m wide pavement and 1.5 m wide gravel shoulders. Between
Chungju and Jeomchon, four of the existing 12 bridges will be replaced with
box culverts, and three with new bridges between 30 a and 41 m long; one of
the remaining four bridges will be repaired. Between Jeomchon and Sangju,
nine of the 24 bridges vill be replaced with box culverts and seven new
ones built with lengths between 30 a and 154 m; four of the remaining
bridges will be repaired. In addition, two railway overpasses will be
constructed to elimlnate at-grade crossings. Between Sangju and Gimcheon,
eight of the 19 bridges will be replaced with box culverts and three with
new bridges; six of the remainder will be repaired. In addition, five new
railway overpasses will be constructed to eliminate level crossings.
7.        Present traffic volume is about 600 aadt for the whole road, ex-
cept for the mountainous section between Chungju and Salmi where traffic
decreases to about 350 aadt. The traffic composition is about 50% to 60%
trucks, 25% to 35% buses and 15X light vehicles. At its opening in 1978,
the road is expected to carry about 900 aadt except for its middle part
which should have 600 aadt; diverted and generated traffic is expected
to average about 150 aadt. Agriculture is well developed with large vil-
lages, particularly in the south part between Jeomchon and Gimcheon where
the terrain is flat. Crops include rice, barley and fruit. In the moun-
tainous section, coal mining near Jeomcheon is the sole economic activity.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C. Maepo - Andong (87_kin)
8.        The road from Weonju (population 115,000) to Maepo (population
7,000) was paved under the Second Highway Project. The road from Maepo
through Danyang (population 10,000), Punggi (25,000) and Yeongju (65,000)
to Andong (80,000) is presently unpaved, except for 8 ka in Yeongju, and
short sections in the other towns. The terrain is about 50% mountainous,
20% rolling to hilly, and the remainder flat. The alignment, governed by
the terrain, is fair to poor, with maximum gradients in the mountainous
areas 8% to 10% (exceptionally up to 12%); travel speeds average about 25
km/h between Maepo and Punggi and about 35 km/h between Punggi and Andong.
The gravel surface is rough and the total width of the road, including
shoulders is generally 5 m to 7 m between Maepo and Punggi and 6 m to 8 m
between Punggi and Andong.
9.        The total length to be improved and paved is 87 km. The align-
ient predominantly follows the existing road, but includes minor improvements
to reduce curvature, which can be carried out at relatively low cost. The
design standards will be Type C on the 9 km section Punggi-Yeongju, which
carries heavier traffic; the pavement will be asphalt concrete 7 m wide
with gravel shoulders 2 m wide. For lengths of 18 km south from Maepo,
and 4 ka north from Punggi, as well as the 40 km section Yeongju-Andong,
will be constructed to Type B, with 6.70 m wide pavement and 1.5 m gravel
shoulders. The remaining 17 km long mountainous section between Maepo and
Punggi will be improved to Type A, with a 6 m wide pavement and 1 m wide
gravel shoulders. Of the 17 bridges between Maepo and Punggi, six will be
replaced with box culverts and one with a new bridge; the remaining ten
will be retained, but with minor repairs. Between Punggi and Andong, six
of the present 17 bridges will be replaced with box culverts, one widened,
and three replaced with new bridges between 20 m and 30 m long.  Three of
the remaining seven bridges will be repaired. A 40 m long railway overpass
will be constructed south of Weonju to eliminate an "at-grade" crossing.
10.       The present traffic increases from about 260 aadt near Maepo to
440 aadt near Andong and its composition is about 70% trucks, 20% buses
and 10Z light vehicles. In 1978 traffic is expected to increase to the
range of 430 to 680 aadt respectively, due to normal and generated growth,
some small diversion from other roads is also expected. The area is moun-
tainous and has little population in the first 40 km of the road to Punggi,
except for a few towns such as Maepo and Danyang where cement plants are
located. Between Punggi and Andong is thickly populated and agriculture
is prosperous; major crops are rice, Ginseng, and fruit, mainly apples
and pears. Some tourist attractions such as the Buseog temple near
Yeongju, should become more popular with the improvement of the road.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
D. WeongJu-HayeoE& (40 km)
11.       The present road between Wecnju (population 115,000) and the
small town of Hayao00g iLq unpaved; the remaining 14 kIm between Hayeong and
Chungju (population 9O,000) is already paved aud is not included in the
project.  The terrain between Weonju and lIayeong is mainly flat to rolling,
but the road crosses two mountainous areas. The alignment is fair, but
deteriorates in the mountainous areas, where maximum gradients are 7% to
10%. The present gravel surfaced road is rough and only 5.5 m to 7 m wide,
including shoulders. Average travel speed is about 30 km/h.
12.       The road will be reconstructed to design standards Type B, with
a 6.70 m wide asphalt concrete pavement section and 1.50 m wide gravel
shoulders, for 12 km south of Weonju, and to Type A, with 6 m wide asphalt
concrete pavement and 1 m wide gravel shoulders for the remaining 28 km to
Haycong, including the two mountainous areas. Of the existing 22 bridges,
11 will be replaced with box culverts and 7 with new bridges with lengths
between 30 m and 80 m.  The remaining 4 bridges will be retained.
13.       Present traffic between Weonju and Hayeong decreases gradually
from about 500 aadt near Weonju to about 200 aadt near Bayeong; its compo-
sition is about 55% trucks, 35% buses and 10% light vehicles. With the
road improved by 1978, traffic should increase to about 820 to 380 aadt,
and include in addition to generated traffic some diversion from other roads
and rail. The area is moderately populated and has subsistence farming.
E. YeongdeopUlin_(76 km)
14.       The Yeongdeog-Ulj in road is a continuation of the Pohang-
Yeongdeog road which is to be constructed under the project (Annex 1,
Section C). The present road is unpaved. From Yeongdeog (population
t11,000) it passes through terrain which is initially flat, but it becomes
hilly (30%), rolling (20%), and then billy to mountainous (50%), towards
Uljin (8,000). The alignment is good in the flat areas, but deteriorates
in the mountainous areas, with maximum gradients of 9% to 10%.  Average
travel speed on the rough gravel surfaced road varies from 40-50 km/h in
the better sections to about 25 km/h in the mountainous areas. The overall
roadway iAdth varies from 5 m to 8 m including shoulders.
15.      '.e#ae entixe lengtZ will be reconstructed to GType A standaids, with
6 m wide asphalt concrete pavement and 1 m wide gravel shoulders. The road
will be reconstructed predominantly on the existing alignment, but with
minor improvements to correct curvature. There are presently 39 bridges
with lengths from 5 m to 228 m. 15 of the bridges will be replaced with
box culverts, two will be eliminated by realignment of the road, and five
will be replaced with now bridges; the remaining 17 bridges will be retained,
of which 14 will be repaired.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.       Present traffic is about 450 aadt for the whole road section and
its composition is about 45% buses, 50% trucks and 5% light vehicles. By
1978, traffic should increase to about 700 aadt through normal and generated
growth. The population is concentrated in numerous small farming and
fishing villages along the coast. The main cash production is dried fish.
F. UlJin-Samcheog (71 km)
17.       The present road is unpaved.  For the first 27 km between Uljin
(population 8,000) and Hosan (2,000) the terrain is mainly rolling, but
with one short mountainous area where maximum gradients are 9% to 10%.
Average travel speed is about 30 km/h. Between Hosan and Samcheog (41,000)
the terrain is mainly mountainous, since the road traverses three mountainous
divides, but with relatively short flatter sections between the mountainous
sections where the road runs along stream valleys or on the coastline.
The alignment is generally poor, with sharp curvature in the mountainous
areas and maximum gradients of about 10%. Average travel speed is 20 to 25
km/h. The present roadway is narrow, generally only 5 m to 7 m wide includ-
ing shoulders, but a few short sections have been widened to 10 m.
18.       The entire road will be reconstructed to Type A standards with
6 m wide pavement and 1 m wide gravel shoulders. The pavement will be
double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) to reduce the cost, in view of the
lower traffic on this road section. South of Samcheog there is a section of
3 km where the road alignment will make use of the embankment and three
tunnels of a railway which was under construction about 30 years ago, but
was abandoned. Traffic will be "one way" controlled by light signals. How-
ever, the capacity will be adequate for present traffic, and the railway
alignment shortens the route by 3 km and avoids the expensive construction
of 6 km through a steep mountainous area.
19.       The present traffic is about 320 aadt for the first 8 km section
of the road from Uljin toward Hosan, decreases to about 150 aadt for the
central 55 km section and increases to about 430 aadt for the last 8 km
near Samcheog. The traffic forecast for these sections in 1978 is respect-
ively about 480, 240 and 650 aadt, including normal and generated traffic.
The traffic composition is about 45% each for trucks and buses and 10%
light vehicles. This coastal area is moderately populated with numerous
small villages. The major activities are fishing and farming. Cement
plants are located in Samcheog and some timber is extracted in parts of
the forested foot-hills of the north-south mountainous range.
G. Beolgyo-Gangiin (67 km)
20.       The Beolgyo-Gangjin road is a continuation of the Suncheon-Beolgyo
road which is to be constructed under the project (Annex 1, Section D).



Page 6
For slightly over half its length, the road from Beolgyo (population 46,000)
via Boseong (22,000) to Gangjin (28,000) is flat to rolling. There are
hilly to mountainous areas for 3 km west of Beolgyo, 4 km east from Boseong
and 14 km west of Boseong. Alignment is fairly good except in the mountainous
areas. Maximum gradients are about 8Z and average travel speeds are about
35 km/h. The existing gravel road varies in width from about 6 m to 10 m
including shoulders.
21.       The road will be reconstructed and paved to Type A standards.
The pavement will be DBST, since traffic is relatively light, 6 m wide with
1 m gravel shoulders. However, at Gangjin there is an existing gravel
surfaced bypass road 3 km long, close to the town, which was completed in
1972. The work will include the paving of the bypass to Type B Standards,
with 6.70 m wide pavement and 1.50 m gravel shoulders. Of the 36 existing
bridges, 18 will be replaced with box culverts and nine replaced with new
bridges, having lengths from 12 m to 54 m. Nine existing bridges will be
retained, of which four will be repaired.
22.       The present traffic is about 250 aadt and its composition about
5OZ trucks, 40% buses and 10  light vehicles.  Traffic forecast for 1978
is about 350 aadt, including normal and generated growth. The area is
predominantly producing rice in flat irrigated land mainly near Boseong.
Production of tomatoes and other vegetables in greenhouses is developing
rapidly in this area.
H. SeongJeon-Mogpo (40 km)
23.       The present road is 33 km long from Seongjeon (population 13,000)
to Mogpo (200,000) and traverses generally flat to rolling terrain but with
some hilly sections with maximum gradients up to 8%. Average travel speed
is 35 to 40 km/h. The roadway is largely only about 6 m wide including
shoulders, but some sections have been widened to 10 m overall. The project
includes also a 7 km section of road south from Seongjeon towards
Haenam to Gaegog which carries substantial traffic. The existing road is
gravel surfaced and has been widened to 9 m to 10 m including shoulders.
The terrain is rolling with maximum gradients of 52 and travel speed
averages about 40 to 45 km/h.
24.       The road from Seongjeon to Iogpo will be improved, mainly on
the existing alignment, to Type A standards with a 6 m wide DBST pavement
and 1 m wide gravel shoulders. The 7 km section of road from Seongjeon
south to Gaegog will be paved to Type B with 6.70 m wide DBST pavement and
1.50 m wide gravel shoulders. Of the eight existing bridges, four will be
replaced with box culverts and the remainder will be repaired.
25.       The present traffic between Seongjeon and the Mogpo ferry south
terminal is about 180 aadt but the branch Seongjeon-Gaegog carried about
540 aadt. Traffic forecast for 1978 is respectively 260 and 780 aadt.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
The present composition of traffic is about 55% trucks, 30% buses and 15%
light vehicles. The area is principally devoted to agriculture with rice
and fish ponds but is somewhat isolated from the influence of Mogpo due to
the state of the present road and the time taken for the 2 km wide ferry
crossing.
I. Sangju-Gasan (64 km)
26.       The present road from Sangju (population 58,000) to Gasan (10,000)
is unpaved, but the alignment is generally fairly good. The terrain is
mainly flat to rolling, with a few short hilly sections. Average travel
speeds are 50 km/h in the flat to rolling areas and 40 km/h in the hilly
areas. Some widening has been carried out and the width averages 8 m to
9 m including shoulders.
27.       The road will be reconstructed and paved, almost entirely on
the existing alignment, except where the bridges are being replaced and
approaches improved. The standards will be Type A with 6 m wide DBST pave-
ment and 1 m wide gravel shoulders. Four of the present 44 bridges on
the road will be replaced with box culverts and four by new bridges. The
renaining 36 bridges will be retained, of which nine will be repaired.
28.       The present traffic is about 200 aadt and its composition about
55% trucks, 35Z buses and 10% light vehicles. In 1978, when the road will
have been improved, traffic is expected to increase to about 350 aadt
including some diverted traffic from other roads and rail, and some generated
traffic. The area served by the road is flat irrigated land, producing rice
along the Nagdong river. The area is thickly populated and has potential
for further development.
January 1976



KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Domestic Freight ani Passenger Traffic Data. 1967 and 1971/5
1967                  1971              1967-71                        1972                         1973                         1974                     1975 (Forecast)        1971-75
Ton-K'm               Ton-Yn          Average Annual           Ton-Km       Increase         Ton-Km      Increase         Ton-Km       Increase       Ton-Km        Increase    Ave. Annual
Freight 1/               (million)   (         () (million)   (%)    Increase (%)        (million)   (.)   (7)        (million)   (%)   (7)        (million)   (%)   (%)         (million)   (%)   (            Iarea4f .%
Highway                     660       8.4        3,302    20.9            49.4             2,494       18.3  -24.5      3,149    19.8   26.3         3,908    22.8   24.1          4,373    22.6   11.9             7.3
Railroad                  6,178      78.4        7,841    49.6            6.1              7,241      53.1   -7.7       8,591    53.9   18.6         8,921    52.1    3.8         10,156    52.5   13.8             6.7
Coastal Shipping          1 043      13.2        4.653    29.5           45.2              3 905      28.6  -16.1       4 200    26.3    7.6         4.291    25.1    2.2          4,8319,   24.9   12.2            0.9
Total              7?881    100.0         15 796   100. 0          19.0                        100.0  -13.6    15,940   100.0   16.9          17.120   100.0    7.4 1                100.0   13.0             5.2
Pass-Km                 Pass-Km                                  Pass-Km      Increase    Pass-Km        Increase          Pass-Km      Increase       Pass-Km      Increse
Passenger 2/             (million)   (h)       (million)   (7)                            (million)   (%)   (7)        (million)   (7)   (7)        (million)   (7)   (h)    (million)   (%)
Highway                   11,699    54.3        22,917    71.1            18.3               26,258   71.1   14.6    32,126        73.6   22.3       35,232      75.0   9.7        40,054    73.8   13.7           15. D
Railroad  i                9,577    44.4         8,750    27.1            -2.1               10,062   27.2   15.0    10,720    24.5    6.5            10,970    23.6   2.3         13,213    24.3   20.4           10.9
Coastal Shipping             223      1.0          256      0.8            3.4                  301    0.8   17.6         425       1.0   41.2           242      0.5  43.1           257      0.5    6.2           0.0
Aviation                      62      0.3          314      1.0           50.2                  323    0.9    2.9          385      0.9   19.2           300      0.6  22.1           333      0.6   11.0           1.5
Subway   ,                            =                     =              =                    -         -              -           -                   143      0.3   -             432      0.8  202.1          18.9
Total               21.561   100.0         32.237   100.0           10.6               36 944  100 0   14 6    43 656   100 0   18 2            46,887   100.0   7.4.         54.289   100.0   15.5           13.9
1/ Figures include only commercial freight and io not account for private transport. The data Sus underestimute
road transport and its importance sight be nearly equal to that of railroad in 1975.
2/  Figures include only public transport and do not account for movement of passengers on private 'vehicles  the data
thus also underestimate road transport but to a lesser extent than for freight since there are only fe" passenger
vehicles for private use in the fleet (less than 15% in 1974 or about 2000 buses and 20,000 light vehicles in a
total fleet of about 180,000 units)
SOURCE: Statistics Yearbook of Transportation, 1974,
Ministry of Transportation.
January 1976



Table 2
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Transport Investment During Second (1967/71)
and Third (1972/76) Five-Year Economic Development Plans
(billion Won)
Central and Local Governments
1/               2/               3/
Transport Mode            Second Plaxr       Third Planx     '72 to 1733-
Highways                     123.4              227.1            102.9
Railroad                       85.8             105.6             89.9
Ports and Maritime            30.2               60.3             35.1
Transport
Airports                       4.2               11.3              5.9
Storage                         1.3              15.1              9-4
Seoul Subway                  -                  72.3            (31-5)4
Sub-total               244.7              491.6            243.2
(31.5)
Total Government Capital
Expenditure                904.3            1,986h.8           967.4
Transport as Propor-
tion of Total               27%                26%             25%
1/ Actually spent, at current prices
2/ Planned at 1970 prices
3/ At current prices, Central Government Investment only.
I/ Seoul City Investment
Source: Ministry of Construction
January 1976



Table 3
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Roads Network, 1974
Total
Category and Type             Leng-th   Paved         Graveled     Unsurfaced
National Highys                            -   ()             (
Expressways (tolls)I/          643       643- 100      -            _       _
New national highways          370       370  100
Other national highways
(primary and secondary)     8,288    3,071   37    5,2o6   63        11   -
Sub-total           9,301    4,084  _44    5,206   56        11   -
Local Roads
Provincial highways         10,875      634    6    9,896   91       345   3
Special city roads           6,610    2,912   44    3,667   55        31   1
City and county roads       17,392    1,020    6   13,353   77    3,019  17
Sub-total          34,877    4,566   13   26,916   77    3,395  10
Total              44,178    8,650   19   32,122   73    3,4o6   8
Road Density in 1974:
mn/xm2              0.5
Km/1000 inhabitants 1.3
- 1/  140 Im are 2 lane non-divided expressways
SOURCE: Ministry of Construction
January 1976



Table 4
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles, 1962-74 
Year        Cars 1/      Trucks       Buses 2/   Others 3/   Total
1962       8,733         13,093       6,747      2,241     30,814
1963       9,569         13,929       8,132       2,598      34,228
1964      11,1409        14,951       8,617       2,836      37,813
1965      13,001         16,015       9,316       3,179      41,511
1966      17,502         19,432      10,9888      2,338      50,160
1967      23,235         22,955      11,1499      3,008      60,697
1968      33,112         31,582      12,786       3j,471     80,951
1969      50,299         40,134      14,,237      3,999    108,669
1970      60,677         48,901      15,831       3,962    129,371
1971      67,582         53,1405     17,1411      5,939    144,337
1972      70,250         55,292      17s550       6,943    150,035
1973      78,334         64,584      18,871       9,025    170,714
1974      76,1462        76,833      20,060      10,189    183,544
% Average Arnual Growth
1962-71     25.5            16.9       11.1        11.14       18.1
1967-71     30.5           23.5        10.9        18.8        24.2
1970-71     11.e4            9.2       10.0        49.9        11.6
1971-72      3.9             3.5        0.8        16.9         4.0
1972-73     11.5            16.8        7.5        30.0        13.8
1973-74      2.4           19.0         6.3        12.9         7.5
% Changing Composition
1962        28.3           42.5        21.8          7.4        100
1967        38.4           37.8        18,9         409         100
1971        46.8           37.0        12.1         4,1         100
1972        46.8           36.9        11.7         4.6         100
1973        45.9           37.8        11.0         5,3         100
1974        41.7           41.9        10.9         5.5         100
1 Vehicle per 185 population (1974), compared to 1 per 50 in Thailand
and 1 per 70 in the Philippines.
1/ Includes taxis
2/ Includes microbuses
3/ Public serviae, motorcycles, and special vehicles
Source: Ministry of Transportation and Mission Estimates, April 1975
January 1976



Table 5
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Korean Motor Vehicle Production, 1962-75
Year           Cars       Buses        Truicks       Total
1962            991          42         884         1,917
1963          1,430         233         143         1,806
1964            179         405         108           692
1965            166       1,251         965         2,382
1966          3,398       1,482         559         5,439
1967          5,033         941       1,512         7,486
1968         11,421       1,632       5,212        18,265
1969         10,727       1,884       9,626        31,237
1970         13,636       3,690      13,032        30,358
1971         12,428       3,063       7,511        23,002
1972          9,525       2,581       6,542        18,648
1973         12,751       3,494      10,069        26,313
1974          9,069       3,945      17,276        30,290
1975?!       25,184       4,100      19,300        48,584
% Average Annual Growth
1962-71        32.4        61.1        26.8          28.8
1971-72        -33.4       15,7        12.9         18.9
1972-73        33.9        35.4        53.9         41.2
1973-74        -28.9       12.9        71.6         15.1
1974-75       177.7          3.9       11.7         6o.4
1971-75        19.3          7.6       26.6         20.6
1/ Includes three-wheel vehicles
2/ Estimates
SOURCE:  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
January 1976



Table 6
KDREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Conaultion, 1962-751/
(1000 kiloliters)
Year                Gasoline                Diesel
1962                   180                    225
1963                    97                    358
1964                   102                    386
1965                   223                    507
1966                   336                    558
1967                   481                    765
1968                   573                  1,251
1969                   748                  1,507
1970                   865                  1,775
1971                   992                  2,099
1972                   976                  2,338
1973                1,040                   2,838
1974                   698                  2,918
19752/                 691                  3,045
% Average Annual Grovth
1962-71                27.9                  28.2
1967-71                19.8                  28.7
1971-75                -8.6                   9.7
1/   Gasoline consumption is totally for vehicles,
but diesel consumption includes 20-30% of other
consumption.
2/   Estimates
SOURCE: Ministry of Commerce and Industry
January 1976



Table 7
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Authorities and Agencies
Expressways         National          Provincial      City/County
(Tolls)          Highways          Highways 1/         Roads
Planning           MOo               MOC             9 Provincial   City/County Con-
Construction   struction Sections
Bureaus (POB)  (CCS), easisted
by PCB
Construction
Design and      Korea Highway   MOC, through its         POB                 CCS
Supervision    Corporation      9 Territorial Con-
(KHC)           struction & Manage-
ment Offices (TC4Ots)
assisted by consul-
tants as necessary
Financing      MOC/KH(i/              MOC             Provinces       City/County
with MOHA       with Prov-incial
grants; also   grants
occasional
grants for
special
projects
Maintenance
Execution                       through   from
authority/                        -        1976-
agency
Paved         KHC            PCB        MOC         PCB              PCB
Unpaved         -            CCS                     CCS              CCS
Financing          KHC          MOC and    MOC        Provinces with City/County
provinces            MOHA grants    with Provincial
gra.nts
t/   The Special Cities of Seoul md Busan (City Construction Bureaus) have
functions similar to Provincial Governments.
2/ KHC waa created in January 1969, but has not so far financed any construction
3/ MOC became responsible for maintenance in one ("pilot") province in September
1972; it is scheduled to take over maintenance in remaining 8 provinces by
Oct. 1, 1976.
4/ As soon as MOC highway maintenance organization becomes effective, or at
latest from at,. 1, 1976, 9 TCMOs (Territorial Construction and Management
Offices) will carry out maintenance, through their 19 NHMOs (National
Highway Maintenance Offices), of all national highways.
SOURCE: Ministry of Construction
January 1976



KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads, 1962/66 and 1967/7Li/
(million Won)
Total                                               Total Se-
First Plan                                            cond Plan
1962/66     1967    1968    1969    19_70    1971    1967/71       1972    1973    1974_
Government Expenditures
on National Highways
Administration             74         12      64      244     307     311§      946         680     700      660
Constructio9/          3,811       1,853  13,316  29,192  25,o49  19,612   89,022       32,746  33,244  31,717
Maintenance-v             193        165      240     282     300     461    1,448          716     842  1J612
Sub-total           4,078       2,030  13,620  29,718  25,656  20,392   91,416       34,142  31,786  33,989
Expenditures on Provin-
cial and County Roadsa/4/
Construction           2,174       1,434   2,843   6,063   7,026   8,920   28,286
Maintenance_/             851        729   1,004      864   1,226   1,914    5,737
Sub-total           3,025       2,163   3,847   6,927   8,252  10,834   32,023
Total               7,103       4,193  17,467  36,645  33,908  31,226  123,h39
1/  At current prices.
2/ Does not include funds contributed by provinces for the maintenance of national highways.
3/   Seoul City excepted.
1W   Includes Government grants.
§,/  Maintenance includes expenditure on national highways estimated up to 70% of the total but does
not include the value of voluntary labor provided for all highways.
CD
SOURCES: Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Home Lffairs
January 1976



KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway User Charges, 1967-75
(million Won)
Revenue               1967      1968       1969      1970      1971       1972       1973      1974       1975
National taxes
Fuel taxesi/      4,048      9,680     12,791    16,959    29,083    27,717    36,582    83,717    115,852
Gasoline tax     (2,687)   (6,796)    (9,365)  (12,185)  (21,185)  (19,593)  (25,821)  (57,236)   (83,817)
Diesel tax       (1,361)   (2,884)    (3,426)   (4,774)   (7,898)   (8,124)  (10,761)  (26,481)   (32,035)
Transport. tax    4,025      5,581      8,387    12,238    14,641    16,000    18,801    13,484         18,720
Commodity tax       669      1,075      2,158      5,o60     4,465      3,535     6,613      7,499       8,259
Sub-total       8,742    16,336      23,336    34,257    48,189    47,252    61,996   104,700    142,831
Local taxes
Vehicle tax
(incl. surcharge) 1,500      2,488      3,869      5,606     6,393      7,191     8,718    12,927      13,408
License fee and
acquisition tax     250        584        881    1,165       1,799      1,661      NA         NA         NA
Sub-total       1,750      3,072      4,750    6,770       8,192      8,852     8,718    12,927      13,408
Tolls               _            6        459    1,987       3,498      4,995     6,276      6,887       8,383
Total          10,492    19,414    28,545    43,014       59,879    61,099    76,990   124,514    164,622
1/  Estimated
2/  Total revenues, not only proportion earmarked for highways
SOURCES: Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Finance. Ministry of Home Affairs.
January 1976



KOREA                                   Table 10
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two-Lane National Highways (Rural)
A.  Construction (including paving, mainly on new alignment)
Terrain
Geometric Design Standards                            Unit    Flat    Rolling   Hilly   Mountainous 1!
Design speed                                          km/h    120       100        70      50
Minimum radius of curvature                            m       630     390        170      80
Maximum gradient                                       %         4        5         7.0    8
Roadway Features (all areas)              Unit
Width of pavement                          in         7.20
Width of shoulders                          m         3.00-1 75 2/
Width of right-of-way                       m         30 minimum=
Structural Design Features (all areas)
3/
Axle-load (pavement)                        lbs       18,000-
Bridge loading                              -         DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new bridges)            m          10.70
(over 60-100 m long) 4/
Vertical clearance (over roads)            m           4.80
B. Paving (mainly on existing alignment, with limited improvement)
Terrain
Flat to
Geometric Design Standards                            Uait   Rolling    Hilly    Mountainous l/
Design speed                                          km/h      80         60        40
Minimum radius of curvature:
Desirable                                            m      300         175        80
Minimum                                              a       230        120        50
Maximum gradient                                       %         6           7        9
Traffic Levels aadt
(estiuated 10 years after completion of pavins)
Under 1,200      1.200-2200    Over 2,200
Roadway Features (all areas)                          Unit   tvpe A       Type B      Type C
Width of payment                                       m         6.00         6.70        7.00
Width of shoulders                                     m      1.00-0.65   1.5-0.65    2.00-1.15
Width of right-of-way-                                nm        25            25          25
Structural Design Features- (all areas) Unit
3/
Axle-load (pavement)                       lis        18,000-
Bridge loading                   6/        -          DB-18, equivalent to AASHO H20-S16
Bridge widths (for new bridges)-
Rural areas                              m          8.50
Urban areas                              m         10.00
Vertical clearance (over roads)            m          4.80
1/  Design speeds and widths   y be reduced and gradients increased on sctions with eceptionally
difficult terrain, as appropriate to each case.
2/  Right-of-way width increased to 42 m where designed to accomodate ultimate construction of
4-lane divided highway.
3/ Pavement designed for the projected number of repetitions of "equivalent 18,000 lbs axle-loads."
4/ Depending on traffic volumes.
5/  Right-of-way width reduced to 20 m where necessary to minimize demolition of property in u*an    areas.
6/  Existing bridges retained unless significantly substandard in strength, size, or align_mt.
Sources:  Ministry of Construction,and consultants Wilbur Smith/Louis Berger/Kampsax
January 1976



Table 11
KOREA
Third Highway Project
MOC Field Organization for Maintenance of National Highways
Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Action                                                         Date
1. Prepare, with assistance of consultants, a detailed
program and time schedule for implementing the estab-
lishment of the MOC field organization.                        April 30, 1975
2. Publish Ministerial Decree authorizing the setting
up of 17 MOC Field Sections (Districts) for
remaining 8 provinces. 1/                                      June 18, 1975
3. Invite international bide for maintenance and work-
shop equipment for 2 above.                                    June 30, 1975
4. Evaluate international bids for maintenance and
workshop equipment, and award contracts for supply.             December 8, 1975
5. Complete construction of Offices and workshops for
the Field Sections in 2 above.                                 March 1, 1976
6.  Complete transfer, and recruitment of staff for
Field Sections; provide funds, and take over
maintenance of national highways in the remaining
8 provinces.                                                   March 1, 1976
7. Complete delivery of maintenance and workshop equip-
ment and complete take over of responsibility for
National Highways.                                             October 1, 1976
- MOC Maintenance Organization for national highways (2 Field Sections)
in the "pilot" province of Gyeonggi-do was set up and became opera-
tional September 1, 1972. The Field Sections have recently been
renamed Naticnal Highway Maintenance Offices (NHMO's).
SOUWRCE: Ministry of Construction
January 1976



tORKA                                 Table 12
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
Foreign
Won(million)              US$(million)         Exchange
Item                       L    t    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Component
A. Highway Construction
1.  Seoul(Seongnam)
-Icheon            43    4,533   3,709    0,242       9.3     7.7      17.0
2.  Daegu-Masan          85   10,6       8,700   19,334    21.9    17.9      39.8
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog      45    2,940   2,405    5,345       6.1      5.0     11.0
4. Sumcheon-Beolgyo      22    1.619   1.125    2.9hL                2.7    _.A
Subtotal A       195   19.726  !kLi         X0       206   _Ua        73.9      45
B. Highway Paving
1.  Icheon-Judeog        53     1,828   1,495    3,323      3.8      3.1      6.9
2.  Chmngju-Gimcheon    103    4,046   3,310   17,356       8.3      6.08    15.2
3. Maepo-Andong          87    3,386   2,770    6,156       7.0      5.7     12.7
4.  Weonju-Hayeong       40     1,402   1,148    2,550      2.9      2.4      5.3
5. Ysoigdoog-Uljin       76    2,490   2,037    4,527       5.1     4.2       9.3
6.  Uljin-Samcheog       71    2,254   1,845   '4,099       4.6     3.8       8.4
7. Bsolgyo-Gangjin       67    1,530   1,252   .2,782       3.2      2.6      5.7
8. Seongjeon-Mogpo       40       728      596    1,324     1.5      1.2      2.7
9. Sangju-Gasan          64    1   6   1.257    2.793         2      2.6       .
Subtotal B       601    19.200  15.710    k.910   39,6    32.4        72.0      45
C. Consultants' Services
1.  Supervision                 2.716   1,164    3,880      5.6      2 4      8 0      30
2.  Feasibility Studies for     2         ,       3                            *        3
improvement/paving of about
1,200 km of roads, to be
followed by detailed engineer-
ing, if found justified    1.115       485    1.600     2.3     1.0       3.w3     30
Subtotal C               3.831   1.649    15-480    7.9      3.4      11.3      30
D. Contingency Allowances
1. Physical  1/                 4,275   3,350    7,625    8.8       6.9      15.7
2.  Price    '/                 8 640   6.780   15.420   1.8    14.0         31.8
Subtotal D              12.915  10.130   23.045   26.6    20.9        47.5
Total Cost of Works       .672  4    8                .      o       204.7      44
E.  Right of Way                    7.760             760   16.0                 16.0
Total Cost of Project   6         2      107.060  130.7              220.7
1/ 10% on all items
2/  Price escalation assumed to be at the annual rates of 12O in 1976 and
10% during each year thereafter, for both foreign and local costs.
Sources:  Ministry of Construction and Consultants' Estimates
January 1976



Table 13
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Ibploeuntation Schedule
Action                                     Time for
~3      aion
Implementato
(in months from
1   Construction and Paving of Highways                               date of Loan signature)
(a) Invite bids for construction of two highway
sections, and for paving four highway sections.                    -1
(b) Invite bids for construction of remaining two highway sec-
tions and for paving remaining five highway sections.
(c)  Receive bids for (a).                                               2
(d)  Receive bids for (b).                                              2½
(e)  Acquire right of way for all highway sections.                      4
(f) Appoint consultants and KHC for supervision of
construction and paving, in consultation with the
Bank.                                                               3
(g) Evaluation of bids by consultants, recommendations
of Government for selection of successful bidders,
and award of all contracts (in agreement with the
Bank).                                                              4
(h) Completion of contracts for construction and
paving.                                                            40
2. Feasibility Studies of Roads, Followed by Detailed
Engineering if Found to Be Feasible
(a) Agree Terms of Reference, and list of Consultants,
with the Bank, andinvite consultants to submit
proposals.                                                         10
(b)  Evaluate proposals, and negotiate contract (or
contracts) with selected firm or firms, in agreement
with the Bank.                                                     14
(c)  Complete Feasibility Studies draft Final Reports.                  23
(d)  Select roads for detailed engineering, in agreement
with Bank.                                                         25
(e)  Start Detailed Engineering.                                        26
(f)  Complete Detailed Engineering.                                     33
Source: Government/Bank Estimates
January 1976



Table 14
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IERD Fiscal Year                                  Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                        at End of Quarter
(us$ 'OOO)-
1975/76
March 31, 1976                                            --
June 30, 1976                                             200
1 976/77
September 30, 1976                                      6,000
December 31, 1976                                      11,000
March 31, 1977                                         15,000
June 30, 1977                                          20,000
1 977/78
September 30, 1977                                     30,000
December 31, 1977                                      40,000
March 31, 1978                                         48,000
June 30, 1978                                          60,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                     68,000
December 31, 1978                                      78,000
March 31, 1979                                         83,000
June 30, 1979                                          87,000
1 979/80
September 30, 1979                                     89,000
December 31, 1979                                      90,000
Source: Gover.nment/Bank Estimate
January 1976



KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
Road              Average Annual Daily Traffic                 Average Estimated
Length             1975                      Forecast'/         Traffic Growth(% p.a.)
Km       Range  Weighted Average.   1978    1987    1997          1976-1997
A. Highway Construction
1. Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon   42.7       80r920        418          2,024   4,404  10,643             9.1
2. Daegu-Masan               84.5      472-1850       625          1,864   4,358  11,218             9.9
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog          44.7      336r609        510            858   1,865   4,494             9.1
4. Suncheon-Beolgyo          21.8      340-420        374            564   1,197   2,763             8.8
B. Highway Paving
1. Icheon-Judeog             53.1      360-640        479            749   1,578   3,668             8.7
2. Chungju-Gimcheon         102.6      350-600        543            841   1,747   3,977             8.5
3. Maepo-Andong              86.5      260-442        357            563   1,140   2,517             8.2
4. Weonju-Hayeong            39.6      200-500        258            468      984   2,262            8.7
5. Yeongdeog-Uljin           76.2      416.483        449            681   1,1440   3,349            8.7
6. Uljin-Samcheog            71.2      147-425        199            300      626   1,441            8.6
7. Beolgyo-Gangjin           66.7      225-420        236            336      720   1,678            8.8
80 Seongjeon-Mogpo           39.6      180-54o        252            362      773   1,817            8.9
9. Sangju-Gasan              63.7      140-235        193            303     647   1,525             8.9
1/ Traffic forecasts include, in addition to generated traffic, the traffic diverted from existing
highways and from railways; the volume diverted from railways ranges fran 2.1 to 17.0 percent
of total traffic with an average of about 5 percent in 1978.
1!
Sources: Consultants' and Mission Estimates.
January 1976



Table 16
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Roads
(% p.a.)
Normal Growth (1975-97)  Generated Growth (1978)
A.  Highway Construction          Cars   Buses   Trucks        All Vehicles
1. Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon    6.5   10.1       9.7             21.4
2. Daegu-Masan                9.5   10.4       9.9             22.5
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog           8.5    10.5      8.3             30.8
4. Suncheon-Beolgyo           9.2     9.5      8.2             17.5
B. Highway Paving
1. Icheon-Judeog              7.8   10.5       7.8             12.2
2. Chungju-Gimcheon           7.8   10.5       7.8             12.0
3. Maepo-Andong               7.8   10.5       7.8             13 7
4. Weonju-Hayeong             7.8   10.5       7.8             13.2
5. Yeongdeog-Uljin            7.6   10.0      6.9              19.5
6. Uljin-Samcheog             7.6   1C.0       6.9             17.6
7. Beolgyo-Gangjin            9.2     9.5      8.2             11.6
8. Seongjeon-Mogpo            9.2    9.5       8.2             12.4
9. Sangju-Gasan               7.8   10.5       7.8              9.2
Sources: Consultant's Estimates
January 1976



KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Average Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads
(Won per km, excluding tax and passenger time savings)
Light Vehicles                      Taxis                             Buses                            Trucks
Existing Improved Savings        Existing Improved Savings         Existing Improved Savings         Existing Improved Savings
Road     Road   Per km.  %       Road      Road   Per km.  a        Road    Road   Per km.  Z        Road      Road   Per km.  7
A.  Highway Construction
1. Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon         85.0      36.6    48.4   57       80.2     34.6    45.6   57        182.6    95.3    87.3   48    155.1         84.2    70.9   46
2. Daegu-Yasan                     92.1      36.0    56.1   61       87.0     34.0    53.0   61        200.0    89.2   110.8   55    171.3         78.8    92.5   54
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog                 73.5     39.5    34.0   46       69.4      37.3    32.1   46        174.9   101.1    73.8   42    182.4        96.4    86.0   47
4. Suncheon-Beolgyo                 73.9     39.0    34.9   47       69.7      36.8    32.9   47        180.4   102.4    78.0   43    175.7        88.7    87.0   50
B.  Highway Paving
1. Icheo:i-Judeog                  78.5      42.9    35.6   45       74.1     40.5    33.6   45        167.3   107.1    60.2   36    140.7         97.6    43.1   31
2. Chungju-Gimcheon                81.0      46.8    34.2   42       76.5     44.1    32.4   42        176.0   118.8    57.2   33    148.1    106.8    41.3   28
3. Maepo-Andong                     80.3     47.0    33.3   42       75.8     44.4    31.4   42        174.8   127.1    47.7   27   ,149.6    116.6    33.0   22
4. Weonju-Hayeong                   77.4     46.4    31.0   40       73.0      43.8    29.2   40        170.5   118.1    52.4   31    150.8    106.3    44.5   30
5. Yeongdeog-Uljin                 71.1      46.6    24.5   35       67.1     44.0    23.1   35        175.5   119.2    56.3   32    168.8    108.8    60.0   36
6. Uljin-Samcheog                   70.8     51.6    19.2   27       66.8      48.7    18.1   27       176.8   132.3    44.5   25    171.0    122.6    48.4   28
7. Beolgyo-Gangjin                 60.5      43.9    16.6   27       57.1     41.4    15.7   27        147.7   110.3    37.4   25    140.2         99.4    40.8   29
8. Seongjeon-Mogpo                 58.9      42.5    16.4   28       55.6     40.1    15.5   28        145.0   105.2    39.8   27    129.6         95.0    34.6   27
9. Sangju-Gasan                     70.8     45.6    25.2   36       66.8     43.1    23.7   36        150.1   111.8    38.3   26    132.0    100.0    32.0   24
Sources: Consultant's and Mission Estimates.
January 1976
H
a
_~
I-



Table 18
page 1
.DM.
T!RD* I?IiY  ! - JCT
Estfited Costs and P4nefits ftr.ms
(million Won exoluding taxes)
New Construction
1 .Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon
Ap-baltic Conete
Costs  _enefits
ConEtr!cti3n,   iri      _                  Operating
1.gaSt of  cG*.l ?Z-e7                  Coat Say1s_          bet Beneflts
d  a.r  Existing  Lev    Total                    wi       '*ith u     ith
Yea  CnZXervi ion  !'.A    P4       0o3t         Tiu      Time       Time    '. le
--r-T-     M2 G3 T-P+55                          i;()(fi) 0TW(d0-(4)
(3)-(2)
19T6    3,729.24
1977      29.21
1978               i5L.Oi   47.57  -12.>.44    1,002.03  1,132.29  1,104.4T  1.234.T3
1979             - 1a;.    4$.&6  -ii6.o    1,096.J5  1,233.ee  1,21-.P3  1,354.96
1980               179.28   50.29  -128.99    1,199.68  1.355.64 1.32f3.67 -1,48.63
1931               19t c.   51.65  -1.1.423   1,312.AS 1,)433.52  1,,57.08  1,64.T5
1962               21!.53   53.'5  -46o.98    1,436.&: 1,23.65  1,590.72%  1,78!s.63
1963               23h.-6   55.43  -179.33    1,57-.7 5 1.7*Tr.T  1,T5P.08  1,956'.54
L964               2j5.97   5T.4.8 -199.49    1,722.675  394 6.62 1 ,92.16  2,146.11
1985               281.35   59.73  -221.62    1,2 3.39  2.129.93  2,106.5m  2,351.55
1986               303.09   6Z.21  -2145.8a    2.,063.37  ".332.17  2,309.75  2,513.05
1987               337.46   64.91  -2T2.55   2.259.O  2,553.57  2,532.25  2,826.22
1988               369. 69   67.90  -301.79    2.)u74.79  2,79#-.4) 2,77'.'   3,3953.9
1989              h405.u5s  'f1A6  -331.22    2,710.27  3,062.61  3,0144.19  3,396.53
1990               443.y0   74..13  -369Y.3.    2.96S.31  3,354.!12  3,.337.6?  3,,23.59
1991              A8-.5j3  73.vE7  -40T.83    3,251.`,2  3,674.33  3,:5 .h341 4, 022.19
1992               533;.32   82.97  -450.35    3.562.'n3  h,025. .   4l,t11?. 31 4.,i4,5.44
1993               58 .69   87.o(0  -.96.99    3,902-39  4 .0.79  4 ,3?9.35  4.906.69
1994               6)l.i5  92.cO§  -548.15    4,275.o  14.331.77  4,C:23.j5  5,379.92
1995               704.97   98.59    O 3    U.635.n  5.,294.1T  5,V39.4?  5,1;;8.55
1i96               770.91  104.c3 -666.08    5,133.63  5,301.oo 5.799.T  6.4467.08
1997               845.50  111.68 -733.82    5,625.82  6,35T.18  6,359.64  7,C91.¶'( 
1998  -1,8614.62
IRBPZ.2   R-23.0
80URCE3  Conaultaut-a' and Misiou' st1mtea.
January 1976



Table 18
page 2
TRID TGF.^Y PROJBCT
stiDated Costs and Bemefits ftms
(million Won excluding taxes)
Nev Construction
2.Daegu-Masan
AsphsItic Concrete
Coetes                                    Denfits
Construction,                                 Opertaiance  4rating
'R'us ow trvw ,af7CoT'rnt                                       Net Penefits
WLaY ar4e    etiz- viri      Total       Wthct    W5th2       Without   W5.th
leE                          RzO -ts  _ AO  Cou-   *5          7*-. -@^           - - 
NJ) S  Z'rvisioqN toA    Rod                    T  CTow  -
-  T1F~   7YY    (<F   )~(4t           7T5 ~   (v)   (7)a(5Y.Oi) (34)\)-Q)
(3)-(2)
1976    9,189.68
1971    9,19.69
1973                335.67  1i1.44  -194.23    5 159.39  5,623.7T  5,353.62  5.817.97
1-97'9              365.24  145.43  -213.01    5.673.t19  6,33':. 5   5.693.70  6,ko4.-5
-,30                397.75  14'9.3.  -<4  7 Ai    S,,-:9.72  153,ft0.30 Q    i, 4' T.;0  T,04e).18
1931                433.57  154.70  -278.67    6,362.03  y,4Ti.61  T 1!iW.)0  8,50'4.51
19-32               h2.54  1i6.o1  -312.>3    7,546.46  S.225.E6  7T,5.339  8,53'3.-7
1933                516iC.'   165.f3  -333.37    8,29).25  9,Ck .1P  8.G11. ?  9,39'.55
19W.                563.91  172.33  -391.5¢3    9   7T .12  99,856  9,5%.7') 1O,3 .T I
i-n35               63l.1v' 1 7 9 .k3   '5 1 7 6   lc rosT .75 IC. Il ..LO' 10 M19 .51 .1   9.1
19b6               6y4.63  13 .So -2 4U63   11,03!.23 1-,C32.7E 11,52S6.  12, 5.159
lSZT                MAT.4   195-.7v  - 541.0    11: ah0 . 3 I  2 33  C 12, -^.' 1 3,7. -ez-9
19683               607.-31   C5.19  -4-212-  1i,3'5Z.28 14,55'.S9 1!95 .-Ln 15,i5(.11
1589                8tih A2  2li,. c)  - UT .JU   11  G,6S.T6 16otof."n 15,351-K  26,67.T-hT
31990               96G.63  ,22. 5 t  -740o.(;5    ,15 .50    17,CI 3.C3fo 1E, C).42 ]3,3 3. 95
1991            1f. 241.e f -f;(   I.  4v  :7t'                    3 12O6 4 E ,^s.3 Ol.
1992                        25 ,6  10' - V',  Ic,.c) c. 3c -'-'a. lr,,3'.< X1,33 fh PCj6, 5  .; ~   s4 -TO
1953             1,27C.41  270.03 -1G05.73   21,)fZ5.51            ;?. 91  oq9 A,t 2I4.g9
1994             1 .4LJ'23  2&T.)2 -166T.75   23,63o.   25,757.59 ^ 51-I,.45  T7,h4r5.O0
199S      -      1.536. 4c  30C. 09 -1230,33      9. C  S. 9.5 22 i 3218.h -27 ,  -r.,IL 7.  t2Tc0
i996             2,656.28  32G.52 -1359.7"  Zq 2, s3U. M  31*5.2N 57,   '54h -A  32. 51T.28
199T      .      1,851.19  34g.Ou  -1502.19   31.439.33 34,268.MAr  32.5,4 2 35.771.06
1ggo   -h,59h.8
-3 .5  IB-36.7
8MURCES: aonsultatsot' and )Ulon' Esttlztes.
January 1976



Table 18
page 3
NIRD _!lGhllAY rMOJECT
futlat.d Costs and Benefits .treas
million Won e:cluding taxesT
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog
Asp.lti     , Cotcr.te
Costs 
Right of  GoraVl .a                   A2 M_
Way end   Niiwtina  N*w    Tot"       WiitbiuttVit
(3)-(2)
19%6   2,583.T0
1977   2,583.70
1978              163.TT  5)4.1w  -109.35     86.oi   998.21    9TT.36  ,10T.56
1979              ITT.'2  55.A  -12i.T2       946.,  I1088.79  1,06B.9 1,n0.51
1980              1W2.554  5T 30 -135.21    1,032.7T  i1A8769  1,168.01  1,2.93
1961              208,.93   5 q9I -119.98   1426.68  1,295.68  i,rr6.66  i,AAs.i
3982              226.E2  60.T5  -166.07T   ,2 23  k.h413.62  1.335.30 1,79.69
1983              246.36  T.2.71  -183.65    1,3l1.23 1 5r2..42  1,524.88 1,T26.07
I aoil            P-267.71   6..S  -202.86    ),463.59  1,683.13 1.666.4.  1,885."9
1985              291.01  6T.20  -223.81    159Tn23  1833C.82 1!,821.01  2,060.63
1986              3165.6  69.75  4!46.71    1.72  240V)4.T3  1,960.95  2,251.44
1987              30.28   72.55  41Y1.73   1,9029  2188.21  2,171&5? 2,459.91
1988              3)4.65  7595 -29,.06   2,0"'.31  2,388.68  2,376.17  2.687.74
198               4T.85  78.9h  -323.91   226T7.61 2,60.75  2,596.52  2,936.66
1990              ".12  82.58 -361.54   2,hT5.83 2,847.21 2,837.3  3,208.75
1991               883.7r  T6.57 -397.18   2,703.d1  3,10.92  3,100.59  39,56.10
1992              527.06  90.92  A36J4    2,,9".9  3.39502  3,388.33  3,83.16
1993              Vh.141  95.69 -h8.T2   3,221i.6  3,T7t.78  3,702.88  4186.50
19                626.16 100.89  -V.27 'r    3,  .   )4t79,73  9,81.M   ) 4605*02
1995               W2.T  106.59  -1.15   3,.65  4,)23.6 5 4b,420.f  4 ,m.80
1996              v.S5  M2.81  431."    ,X2.23  4835T 4,834.m  5.1..
I'm               1222  19.63  -2.59   4,591.01  5,M7.66  5,283.60  5,9sf2.5
IRRh4.9  V2.t
130W:s  Conaltant,' and  ission' kEtimtes.
January 1976



Table 1 8
page 4
(million Won excluding taxes)
ounch -Beo1g3ro
Ftie  eeri
W&Y an   EzIStI. isvw     Tt1aS  Withot   With   "i1tholit   'ith
~~~~ot            XTim    Tm        Mt (7(8-
(3)-t2)
17    139.56.
1977   1,396.56
19TY 1' 9.-.s
97T8              66.93  21..30  42.63      319,.04  3T7050    362.03   ¢.3
1979               71)   213   A7.fl    3T7.06   302.59   39.TT            ..30
19.               7T1.  25.25  -53.16    377.11   13T.115   .30.27   190.61
19U                81.90  25.70  -59.20    409.79   )75.36    W68.9   5%.%
l9mt               91."   26.25  -65.4    144.3        56.5     =.OL   SUM
ga                9.61  26.85  -72.7        483.3   %U9    556.69   6%..
1961              107.93  2.9  40D.1        52S.90   6"oh   606.31    E4WA
16.VT  28.20  -0.17    M.Sh   6.9"    66".3    1M
VOC6        .      26.SS  20.97  -97.83    622J.A    720.52   71R.97    U8.
198               137.T  29.80 -1.07.T      675.T0 OT  3.08 382.7T7    89.7
19U8             116.22  30.71 -115.51    133.72   ¶51.12   843.23   9664
1989              161.66   31.70 -i2.96    T97. 48    M5.08   92W. 1.O1
1990              1T5.35   32.76 -142.59    566.79 1,005.48 1,009.38  ,1
1991              187.37   33.93. -153.1.3    )It2.19 1,992.94 1,095.62 1,114.3
1992             206.38  35.21 -lnT.  1,024.16  1,188.03  1,11?5.33 1,359.2
1993              223.94   36.59 -18T.35  1,11.2T 121.39.  1,300.62  1,1kT&T*
199)              243.02  38.09 -201.93  1,210.19 1,14.382 1,315.12  1,608-.
1995              263.T6  39.72 -Mh..d   1,315.59 1,526.08 1,539.63  1,70.12
1996              286.30   11.50 -2".80  1,3.30.20 1,6S.03 1,6T5.00 I,903.6
199               310.79  13.1.. -467.35  1,554.82  1,803.59  ,822.17  2,070.94
L998    698.28
TRR18.5 ?E'@.5
8OURCI:  Consultants' and Mssion' Estimates.
January 1976



Table 19
page 1
THRD HIGHWAYI PROTEC
(m :Ulion Won excludig taxes)
i .Icheon-Judeog
A&pWutU Omarsi
c@.truZCtiafla, iBrtuz"nce               opor s ±D
litig  of  Oevo1  Phvd                C sj i                 Bin
VWand  btsttn   Nw           Total l tt h1*ih .....   Wm
1976    1,1.26.49
17    1w.1h.
1978              2A8.13  62.51 425.69       626.32    T32. T    752.U     S8
17                So1*69  61.3u -i.0.38    631.7T6   7.66   822.3.1   938.01
-90               22Ah0  66.23 -16.7.T    74. 19    88.36   598.36 1,02.53
68                21.69  68.32 -173.37       8c8.11   915.49   981.48 3.u&.a6
1982              262. 6   70.59  -12.10    Ve1).O3 1,0?9.64  1,072.13 3,21.71
1983              285.57  73.0T  -212.50    *5A.48 1,121.A2 1,170.98 1, 33S .
198e4             310.4.7  75.T7  -23T1.7l  1,014.lj  1,221.59  1,278.80 1.156.3
1985              337.59  78.71 -258.88  1.137, 51 1,330.89  1,39'.39  ls589.71
1986              36T.13  81.91 -265.22  1,239.i8 1.450.19 1521.7t  1735 .41
1987              399.30  a5.-0 -313.90  1.350.7T  1,580.42 1,66".69 18*9133
198u               13433  49.18 -3b5.15  1,472.30 1,722.59 I,U1.1.  2t067.71
189                .792.48  93.32 -319.16  1,604.99 1,877.8Oh  1.914.15  225T7.09
1990              511.03   97.82  A1.16.21   T1o.79.82  2,047.41  2,166.13  2,1.,.2
1991              559.26 102.T2  -456.5.  1*908.21 2,232.61  2,364,75  2,689."1
1992              608.s53  0&06 -500.47  2a,081.15 21431.95 2,561.62  O,tM3A.S
1993              662.18 11386  -,,-4V.S   2,270.10 2,66.02  2,818.42  3,201. 3
194 9.*.61 3*0.29  -60,42   20176.5T 2,8f7.59  3,0T6.99  3,198.01
195               *84**   12.08 .6T.16   2,7Q2.25  3,1Q1.63  3,359.421  3,816.79
1996              8353 133.60  -72893  2,941.91  3,4150.26  3,667j.ST h,169.19
997              $92L98  3M.7T  -786.21   3,2l1865  3,J65.82 k.v@*,86 1,552.03
Ja9u8  -713927
January 1976



Table j19
page 2
?UW NOAT ?"IU~
?vin  mdUwg.dlA od2Et d   s&
(naillion Won: emoluding ta3ms8)-
2. Chungju-Gimcheon
kebltic Camaa
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __eta"it
w    m4  UulwUa  Is,     TStaL    Ww1    wih         W1tboo    With
an               .
(3)T(2)
19T6   3,3115.71
1977   33315s.7
19T7             N31.70 i601t6  -V2.9h  1,581148  1,9o14  1,907.52  2,a22.411
17                53.79 l6.ff  -s.e0  1722.59  2,065.91 2,0T9.61 2,W*3.93
1980                ."  m -.22 -P6.713  1,87.70  2,2M.a 2g,267.111 2,614.55
181               615.89 177.15 438.yt   1,033.00 2r,139.60 2, 11T.71  2.,8T.3
198       6C8.01  18360 -W.%1  2,29.6T 206s.4@0 2,61.08 3,136.01
3983            T7^.@  l90.60 -5*.Gk  *,11WW03  2**SM        2,936.0T 3,416.49
1984            t76.17 296.,  -5896  2,6U.5L 3133.&  3..T  3,2.
1-81S             853-A  206.U   4.962"9C   SAW"475  3,4i.17 16,054.09
196               95    215.MAT -*AD      3,6609  3,705.11  3,198.S  11,415.93
1987            1001.61 225.28 -1 39.33  3,35&8)  1,03S57 11,383.11  1809.90
3$88            i0.  o    |A  | 2g.. 41 %9  39653.35  1,*38.0 11,058.31 5,239.06
no 49           1,1*3.58 211T.35  93623   3gsj.  1 o.mi  1,,n.u   5,70.1
1990            1o.26  259.89 -2024,37  1.%6-  5,190.55  5,34.83 6,2A.92
1991            1*39  2T3.50 I4a2..11    1,70.31 s,611.C       S,828.r2  6,TO.18
1992            l    k1,5.6 28L26 4-2.0   5, 123.t 613L1  6,339-82 7T,3T . 54
1993           1,6"13.11 335 -131.06  5,11433 6,57760 6*81.39 7,9L7.66
1994            1,85.6  331.-3 -          6,A.61 7T2.13  7,536.36  8,750-.8
19              1,936.".   3%0.b -18l.t   6,612.56 7,935.10  8.20.T  9,533.27
1996            2,0.7T  36%I4S -1LT73.    ,801-60  8o1U92 8,935.85 10,386.17
199   -t, 2 -.  36.6 -196.9   T9844127 9,312  9,T71.24 10,506.09
igg    -1 T. S.T
IR32-9 X18336.T
Janu ary n1' 97             u    Sfi_
January 1976



Table I 9
page 3
=lIPD HINAr PROE
(itill ion Won excluding ts
3 ,Maepo-Andong .-
Way  pd   Wt_t! ing  tw    Ta                      with    Wthot   Wth
.- w; _ =8ir(4>' (T);-(t57--   t83R;)Ot-)
i9T6   lT".65
1 97T   2OW-35t
I,6o              A9.2%  92.12a -1i56.99    678.1C    T7t.01    835.4$5   94%1.09
_>~T9             269AT  Oh,"  -1%**T    t34.6a    W52.    M*8*8   i.o6.41
;9i               290.ft    "M    0"*f       795As   1 . 72    8816  1.115.T3
i9sX     b l      Uf.23> b1008.5t .4M2       NUO          .26 .0I .M. 7tS 1.212.55
198               339C6  IA-3% -M,96    VW.9n 1A  025Y 1,16"   1.31T-51
1933              367T.o8 loo.o  : .^ .6. 1^843 I.;LT2.9  1,20.631 )A ,3t.30
4"               3,26.85 1U.02            1,0.t6  .... l.Og4.   1,3T9. .49 1:55h.64
3$                 29.0 ;L16.32       -    1g? X,18. 00 IMI.6   1,496.67  I,6Xl.41
15>86             V-03 121.0  -343.03  .1.21k.U  1,3mA0AW  1*62.91 1,833.49
1987              S0E.00  126.OT  -3T5. B2  1,V2925  1,615Z0a  IJ63.07 I.0.83
l98$              5X52.90 131.%  -hU- 36  1#,S.7  I.J50.16  1,920.12  2s,161.52
1969              587.32  MAT  -4 9.85   is,63sag i*949.82  2.085.04 2,34,6.67
1990              635.49  143.l -492-515  l.TT2!.9b ;210,05.97  2,263.97 2.54T.55
1"1               67.64 1.50.86 -536.T78  1.921.30 2,n8.T  2,458.0B  2.T6c.49
19?9              T44.ITS.s  -- S85.25  2,082.94  2,416.21  P.fi0;6.V9  3.001.46
1XM               30D5.42 166.56  -638.06  2,>258.113 2.619.T8  2,!.q37.29  3.?58.6h
' 9               S7U.10  .T5.40  -696.40   2,448S.98 .2,A0t).t 3,145.38N -3537.21
1995              9J43.7h1 L&.98 -75A.T6  ':!,55-91 3,08(.86  3,414.67  M,.-62
1996            1,0i2X.C  1M.35  -W-341  2,MO.6  3,3i.1.5h  -3,TeOU.98!  ),16T .88
19"             lX46620 206.5  -899.61   3,124.76  3,624.T2  4 ,,)24.37 ),524.33
2998 _ 1,36T.tl2
ifit23.8  IRR-22.7
Jankl,r'Y 19,76



Table 1 9
page Li
,ro
ztlteJ %atS e    3d Bonfidts ffrein
(million Won excluding taxes.)
4 .Weonju-Hayeong
Asphaltle emaret s
construet o fti.eg
Riglt of   @ 1   '-xv                    b    e    _            n     *
ft';a =,     ailtw   !;#V    ?1        VtI+.it   Witk    Vltkout    with,
ig6    1,125.65
1977    1,125.t6
1978                76.28   %5.90   -10.I8      2b1T.6     29.72    2'°.14    3.2Xw
1979                82.61   47.03  -35.5a       269.51      20.72    30c.09    35A. 30
191 o91   1.9832  *47.19    329.*3                         379.07    363. h     3.27.2
198W               105.17   S.41   -53.76    3*T.62    1:3.67    41.038    W.63
I98M               114. wt   53.1.3  -13.93     37& n      1150.23    4331. 4   521. S
3@8                1 3. "t    55.a1  --8TL      h1t.1    h9o5%    4ft93    55§-23
1905               134,2h   57.0&   -T7.T20     kk8"       5b.29   532.18    611.14
-9w6               145.& 6' i 9.26   -86.42     4*94       5M.49    " r,- 5,    6L
1987               158.13.  61.68   -96.1.5     03.67    6*.12    6023.2    7T35T
2988               171.67   64.3.  -17. 36      580.ET    691.00    E88.c3    t'36
1989               186)40   67.1T -119i.23      632.81k    53.08    T52.07    872.32
199w               202. 4 "  70.27  -132.16     689.79    82.65    82L9f5    933.01
1991               219.07   73.67  -146.20      751.99    eA1. .7    898.1:  1,oi1.o7
Log?P              231B,E    7 7.35  -.161. W   819.93   L,15.T2    181. t   1,13T.21
1W93               259.4,1   U. 35  --7. lit    894.ih  i,o6h.o3  3.,ocT2.2t  1,242.1T
1994               281. sC    6S.71  -t24       9T5.23  1.16o,5f  ij.Ti. b', 1.3S0.7
1995               306.,3i'. w.h5 -25.93   i.o63. o     ,265.9. ,127.77   3,1.895
199>!         ~~~~~332.,?   9,.£ ^ 1  -23T. 3r   1.160.ft  1,381-13  X,,39T.5°6  1I A& .5
1997               361. jo  Ll1.zL -4i(60.48   1,266.- l,507.)-5  1,527T. 11  31*67493
1998     -562.63
M-18. 3  n_I4;
8tMXC!st Consultants,' *ad Wisiaon' Estivater.
January 1976



Table19
pageS
KUam
hRD  UGUWAY P?OC
t} 1ion Won excludig taes)-
5. Yeongdeog-Ulj in
Cinatraotics                             opa'ati3g
Rit  of  Orwml Pavd                                     ...AEL !tp1SL
War an e  zitrIng  uw      Total    Vithest   With      Jtthout   With
P2ffi-t (4)"tr3                    (5)            (T)F)tt-4
(3)-(2)
:1976   2,035.09
19?t    2,0"5.09
19T8              263.83  127.12 -.n36.T     969.0O  1,115.16  1,105T.8  1251.87
1: T9             285.T7  11.17  -151.30  1,052.16  1,209.98  1,20.46 1361.26
AO )309.51  135.57 -173.94   1,142.36 1,313.71  1,.6.30 11.4T.65
i.X;i             33*. h6 1o0. 3*  -191.12   1s,210.66  19,1.76  1,413.a' 1,6.mS
362.13 11.5.53 -216.60   1317T.64 1,519.79  1.561.24  1166.39
lf3              392.17  151.15 -211.02  1,461.13 1,683.75  1,705.15 192.TT
1)&11             11211.T9 15T.25  t-26.54  1,591.0  1,5l .66  1,83585  2,09T.20
i?tX i4 k60.18 163.88 -296.3D  1,T29.38 1.988.T9  2,05.68 2,285.09
I '3 6            498.61in-o  -w. 5   1.ST9.9  2,1.193  2,TM.48 2 ,9. T
1987              540.31 178.88 -361.43  2,014.15 2,350.77  2,1*.58 2,712.0
1988              585.59  18T.36  -398.23  2,2VJ8   2,556.2T 2,621.0T 2I951..0
1989              6341.3 196456 438.17  2,1T7.93 2,70.62  2,856.10  3,218.t9
199               688.07  206.51  -111.53  2,630.55  3,025.13  3412.08  3,506.66
1591              TM.97  2T17.38 -528.59   2,862.30 3,291.65  3,390.89 3820.24
1992              808.83  229.15 -579.68   3,115.27  3,552.56  3,694.-95  1,162.211
1)3               87T.05  2141.92 -635.13   3,390.80  3,899.42  1,#025.93 11,5311.55
199?1             951.11  25T.79  -695.32   3,691.70  1,2*5..46 1,387.02  ,W90.7
19'95>          1,031.19 2To. PA  -760.65   4,020.00 4,693.00 4,780.65  5,383.65
1.99;           1,118.76  287.18 -831.58   4,378.19  5,034.92  5,209.70  5,866.50
ltv.'-)T        1,213.A5  30b.90 -98.55   4,769.12  5,.8*.49 6,393.014 6,393.011
1:9$'  -1.17.55
IXH'32.2  MR35.0
.^^'.JRCsF: 7 eultantse and Mttssio's Estimates.
January 1976



Table 19
page 6
MMRI EIGWAX POSER    ?
(million Won excluding taxes)
6.Uljin-Samcheog
DRUT
1g MA  kiasuz  NM         Tota     VWitou    With    Vitboub   With
xm   el                 WNLi   cat         TI       fl    . t          Time
tn ~~~(2)                             TW)"r   M-V (M   (7)"1)(6m;4m
19t6   1938.7
19728             "      1327.9   40.."    i5mAS   3395    73023         3%9.42
1981  133.87 235.33   4036       330T.63   1.5042   372.95   1.92ot
~~~~~~~~~~~~wft    Us,                              W-3    h"-  ws m
1982              WM 3213816   -5.36    36x.e   1.5s.5    k.1.5    569.
1983             151.13  I1-.1    -me       35.7T   VW.        434.2T   5".d
1985              Was 11.5.s   -M3T           W1.70    55.1   s5.61.   615s-3
19"          W3  AL          -3.n9    4W.        "So      6-0s.    6T.5
1986             &906K  Xma.s  -2.T3    5136         A874    6s".y,   (10.00
198              gm"  "L3S  -1.as  5U .   7W0713   665.31  8t2.00
19a              WT.A   160.5?   46.Ak    6A.4    T77.70   T30.-3   09.42
3989         21.5~A.00 i66.ft  .79.70    6ft.2    A@.@b   ftOo6    m.3-T
ab5*Z~~~0,    m-he  -nw1   zro W* .Msn.
399              265.7  171.12  ..9..1      7tJ1    01    877.2  1,165.11
1991             28T.33 17a3  X.33  410.00   93.00     y.i    9C49 i
1992                     183.7  .                      .     103.   17.83
1993                  A  190.63 -115        91.2.65 31 .74 1,lSo.1  1,31.20
1991             36101   l816 -16.5   1,oa."  4, 75  I .58 I ,1*..T
995              3 9  206.30 -I.T2   1M.3    1.0             1,.60 1,6S.3
1996             %0.96 233,14 -.f   IJ.A   1,, &      51,9y I1,.8
199              1or  221.71 .236.36   1,3.38  1,46.43 1,614.72 1.9TT.77
g198   -.96037
1L20  IA
(J1ECM I              MA MSssios'. Itiasts.
January 1976



Table 1 9
page 7
(s'illion Won excsludfing tams)
7. Beolgy,o-Gang,jin
a    Sm             %d  -6                              ,N_et  RMS
'- m'(4^2T     -010MT           3      M7'5-(b M§F-MTM     Tw
( 3)-(2t)
"Te       .          .1    92.94  -2T. t       258A99    305.26    SL.03    363.40
1"9          ~~~130.1.9   95.52   -3h.67    2 Ov.. 35    3n.TT    19.78    hN.20
z980               141    9.32   42.T          309-95    3t.nT    Ift-.w    U-A
19f                152 95  1QL. 38  -51.ST    338-       M&T       iia h1  4.
19a           1~~~65.ak  101.69   -61.35   3TO- 3T   435.=    V6.33    5U3A.S
29"           IT917. 86   *.28)   -TI."    4.       Vo.olTs   naaTn   5a".
18                 25.7 .1*9 I01,   _.  Rg  8  hhl.f     S M       02.0       638.68
19"              2'6T   A. -6 -o52            ha.3 *-X  g.7    41C.2    6,.
i,    ~~~ ~2.T1  12,09  -108.62    S@C.X3    6IT-.    6.nS    T6598
l'i"7         >>~~0433  W-1   -123-19    st4.nT   6T2.-98    739.5    $38.n
' >-8        tro~V.64  I31.61  -13P.03    6265     T G        &w.37   .96.62
9                293.84  13T."   -156.5    683-40    8.06    Oft-3   1,00-
1.99               U9.05  A4.06  -IT4.99    T4J          ST2.U    96e.9 1909.9
VS                 'd.1M   15-.0o  -g5.38    8)2.41    M59*3  i,o1.oe.  iW.o
xmS                S^.S  i3.-T  Zla.rm         wim   i.o.nTi  l,lSS.q  4366i.
t?93               WO-75  167-1  -2|11163    965-21  1L v2&53  lo%2.*  1oJ25.72
199                4M  O'Sg  I6.>   4Y.  -49.  ,M I1.%   1,29.53  I,3T8.2T  I155.0
V95                W8.3V  lK.05  -296.34  1,1#6.14  2.93 .2  19%.33  106.6
L.49               524.1  IO.T   -M-3h  IA48*-f  lo,149-0  3.*6LYn  1*851
1.997              569.4  208.45  -3fto.lt 103%0.5 11 l58930  110W.ST 2,019.64
Januar 1976



Table 1 9
page 8
(million Won ezcoluding taxes)
8 .&Wgjeon-Mogpo
U)  {r2r    OT                    ir  1W} f]*F5)x  (J*m
tt6 ~ ~~$55 a6                0"      I X          am    U*a      *4
X90               92.68  62. 0   -".A    I"9."    2*.S2    M."5.t
"ao             oX 6b. 23  (-32     .     Z WtA     196.X              M  WO-
wde              1os.&f  65.9a  -U.4    ak          9"9          If   31. >*1
19"               U04   67.00  -ONS    ::M          SW         "AV I*
X9p,             z;2L.    69.rr   sa       27X    M&f         31*o6   WM
im               1.3-0   7.90  -6T.00    M9S"                           Wof
a"S              15°.73  TU.23  -76.50   3mv    ST.T    hii            4W16 
im          3A3-"9  T6.77  -82    s5LS9   h=U    M."               Mol
WA        ,,     l."-   79-3   -o            ka m"    xu                "M
X90             192.2  82*53 -UO**                  n11iX6  5v t
i9t              209.38  sALa  -US    bWO           saw"    6  4 
V9¢ UT.W   SP."  -U3Lo    kvr.T                      Wis6
vw               94.    ss9*s2 -"56    5U."    "Tr2    Ms.r
M3   9.AR aw0.*   5M-"    7T-%   T.*r                
199)"      "       g   ~~~~~-208    645-17   TWfi     W-o2  2.4   n
VX           3X~~~6-43 106.9T -.K6   T03.29   $63-00   9M.Sr  IvM*
W6           ^~~~3.30  U2.39 4MI    T6iST   Oa.3  l.sC   l             e
esr          wb~3fi.2  I29  -M*92   OZ.*g  Iltan-s  lXo09S  &a=
lsA   -329.97                                                        U4n.  .1
Sam= comltsotu4 z't
January 1976



Table 19
page 9
Nst1ut  Costs ua4 Bmetltis Stream
(million Won excluding Taxes)
9.Sangju-Gasan
DUST
Costs                                Ewasfits
Coo nrsotldu, c prua
Bght of   Orav.l                            swim 8?sv4
VW an      Fziusta  New   Total       Vib~      wIth      V1thult  Wth
(4  rr  (3) M'     (5T (B  Og(m)
(3)-(2)
1976    1,363.80
19T7    1,363.8o
1978               97.41  100.12    +2.TI    181.23    243.27    211.21    273b25
iPYP              105.56  192.39   -3.17      199.64    h'6.ST   236.21'   30.83
1980              314.5)4  10o4.81    -9.70   219.75    <j3.40   263.68    31.33
V8t l-  124.l IT.53   -16.63                  24.ktS    32-9    293.43    M*T
134.T2  u.hT7  -21.25    265."        3$.14   3.25.96    U&T6
13                146.24  113.36  -32.8       2.91    38.30    361.?0   457.19
XF           ~~~~~158.71 11 T.13  -Al."   3M.0    42.A.41  X  0.s .A  0.31
1T2.4e, 12.92   -51.56     351.62    %65.,4       t*."    5%.08
1916              17.T40  1?5.M 5   -62.35     385473    5O9i13    W8.YI   612.61
3.98              Z2t.66  1 '!. 56  -7T'-.VI    423.02    57.0    539.42 i  6T.36
i988                 i. 3fl  i3h.6   -46.9s    463.T6   61Q.96   59h.36  T7i. 00
1.98              24(i . T  139.82 -100.88    50C.3)   668.95    654.83   815.18
W;90               261.7;.  L5.616 -116.12     57.00    T32.32   720.67    98t."
1,91              28411T   152.01 -132.69     610.22    801.59   795.93 10*33M.0
1992               309.71 158.93 -150.80      688.49    8TT.O    81.16  1,.8.09
V93                336.9:  166..9-170.50      732.18    960.26   95T.04 1.,185.14
199b               366.71  1T1.73 -19198     801.87  1,050.96  1,050.9C  1,299.99
19M5               399.12  183.7O 4I54.t      BT8.11  1,I@I6  1153.51  1*4n.56
1996               431.b13 193.117 -4.,6      961.45  1,256.72 1,265.68  ],56j.05
1997              hT2.39  2011.11 2.46678   1,052.86  11,3W7.5   1,386.19  1,712.95
1998     6J1.90
isms Csnau1taats' and Kinsion's eit1met-1.
January 1976



Table 20
KOREA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analyses
(W)
/  2/   Passenger Time
Best       Hight-/     Low/   Saving Excluded
Estimate   Estimate   Estimate  From Benefits
A. Highway Construction
1. Seoul (Seongnam)-Icheon       23         31           16          21
2. Daegu-Masan                   37         53           28          35
3. Pohang-Yeongdeog              27         36           24          25
4. Suncheon-Beolgyo              21          28          14          19
B. Highway Paving
1. Icheon-Judeog                 35         50           26         31
2. Chungju-Gimcheon              37         55           28         33
3. Naepo-Andong                  23         31           16          21
it. Weonju-Hayeong               21         28          14          18
5. Yeongdeog-Uljin               35         51           26          32
6. Uljin-Samcheog  (DBST)        15         19           10          12
7. Beolgyo-Gangjin (DBST)        20         27           14         18
8. Seongjeon-Mogpo (DBST)        24         33           17          21
9. SangJu-Gasan    (DBST)        17         22           12         14
Note:  All analyses are for asphaltic concrete (AC) unless otherwise noted.
1/ Assumes costs 15% lower and benefits 25% higher than in the best estimate
2/ Assumes costs 15% higher and benefits 25% lower than in the best estimate
Sources: Consultantts and mission Estimates
January 1976



KOREA: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION (MOCI
MIN ISTER
VICE MINISTER
CONTROLLER O
PLANNING AND
COORDINATION
i  KOREA  E w r KOREA   1    I BUREABUREAU OF     UREAU                   OF                            BUREAU OFI
*IKOREA       i!KREA                  BRAOF            BUREAU OFBUEUOBRAUFBRAUF
HIGHWAY       *II                   NATIONAL         HUIGAD             PUBLIC
CORPORATION   *   HOUSING           PHYSICAL         AND CITY           ROADS            INDUSTRIAL         WATER
(KHC)       I r  CORPORATION        PLANNING         PLANNING             (B P R)        LOCATION           RESOURCES
UTRIAL SITE                                                         NATIONAL7
KOREA            AND WATER  IBUREAU OF                                                  CONSTRUCTION       BUREA  OFNATIONAL
CDREDGING    I    DERESOURCES  I                      FINANCE                           RESEARCH           PORT               GEOGRAPHY
CORPORATION.DEVELOPMEN_INSTITUTE                                                                           DEVEL              INSTITUTE
TERRITORIAL
CONSTRUCTION                                            TRAINING
& MANAGEMENT
OFFICES (9)                                            CENTER
(TCMO'S)
SOURCE: Ministry of Construction
January 1976                                                                                                          World Bank-7761(2R)






KOREA: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS ORGANIZATION
BUREAU OF PUBLIC ROADS (BPR)
DIRECTOR
PLANNING
DIVISION                                         r
_       uf         u    u      uuu_h                            hDEPUTY  h
DIRECTOR
AMNISTRATIO                     FINANCE                                   CONSTRUCTION                   MAINTENANCE          5
DIVSON                          DIVISION                                  DIVISION                       DIVISIONa
TERRITORIAL CONSTRUCTION &
MANAGEMENT OFFICES (9)
DIRECTOR (TCMO'S)
GENERAL    'NATIONAL                                     'RIVERS AND   ''                     DESIGN
DIVISION                       HIGHWAY                       WATERWAYS   '                    AND
DIVISION                      DIVISION                    ,    TESTING
:I ... .. ........ 
NATIONAL HIGHWAY          r 2 Established Sept. 1972
MAINT. OFFICES (19)          17 Additional to be
SOURCE: Ministry of Construction                              (HMO'S)                        established by Mar. 1976
January 1976                                                                                                                       World Bank-7762(2R)






IBRD- 11700
-S  1  /  ,,       ,   ,),                   las.1270                                                                                                                 129                  OCTOBER 1975
0t + of:  ,s':NORTH                                                             KOREA A                                   ¢
C H I NA Ar
7   NCATa A           e (       X;        .                                                        "E   B'91             >Whachn  ½909    dWeonlong         *
Ko   A~~~~ 
y :'S H 00 S t   X    0         D    aV                                              ;                                                       g    i :n                           a7D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ogar  ~  ut
RE 'L                                                                                                                         onn ' 'e Yo',yon1 C'>     0P                      O
jy9n         M O   A,OOOO 0                ;O , d'                                                                                     ...
Soogh
-i|  :.    ,  .2,                                                                                                                                                        h  : '~;D9h D   ,   u e      ~1       <     
o   ap;   o n l r o 9 o   9, .0   0 0 0 0 0 9 0 7   R I N  T G L L  \0~o                                                                                       t    '  S i [ F v 4 1Vd i,    ,   u c a g
'ye  0'W   5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0010    J n                                                         009J    I'                        y
_',NATIQNAL HIGHWAY NETWORK  E, ?                                                   '
tXljOT~ NTONAV4AHIGIWAYS
________  .  EXRRSSWAY (70RIO LANFTJ j'J
NATOP*AL MODWAYS (t)NAVtp0R6p
rEC-NICAL ASSISTANCE C
.......AS140LTV STUOD  AND BGtINCEWGIISK-
SECOND PROJECTOAN t  OAN    E   . O         .      c
CONSAUBSIVION AND IMPRBOVEMENT0 FtRST PROJECT LAAN 749K60-A                               ~Jns
| VIIIG      -                  ECONDI PROJECT LOA  ORB  0 .    !       '        I              '0. JjO0an - K,    *
COMRUATION AND INPOVMNTT-BO   RJC                                                0                 .roa                                                              LA
,      A7RPORTS  :; AABNATIONAL                                B   0 99 1                 i          Np
®  PBOYINCpAL CAPITALS                                            -'       ooyg.-
10NTERATIDNAL   BOEBIDRBIES                                                                                                                                            H ..00 oo  h-~-.J
B~~3~~  ~~                                      o- (~~~~-       9770~Bo
L.   E'+\S,w w. 4&.i  i   '   Ri
= ;- -r  &>5  820 q   t    U                  lrfss                 t      b \;r    e isir   , ,   :    r1 F  26f



