Document of
The Worid Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9504
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
APRIL 15, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
T tin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
BNDE           Banco National de Desenvolvimento Economico (National
Economic Development Bank)
DER-RO         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia (Rondonia
Roads Department)
DNER           Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (National
Roads Department)
POLONOROESTE   Programa Integrado de Desinvolvimento do Noroeste do
Brasil (Northwest Development Program)
SAP            Special Action Program
TA             Technical Assistance
Vpd            Vehicle Per Day



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFFCIL US ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O/4e. d# DirectoarGe.l
Ops,atkw1 Ev&1uf.;-;n
April 15, 1991
MEM =  TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS          THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Brazil Northwest Region Development
Prograi  Iighwai   Project (Loan 2062-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil Northwest Region Development Program Highway Project
(Loan 2062-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefonmance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface.. . . . . i
Evalu-tion Summary.                  .. ...                     . ii
PART I  PROJECT REVISW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .   1
Project Identity ....  .................   1
Background .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Descriptlon . . .. . . . .   3
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   3
Project Description  ....  .        . . . . . . . . . . . .    .   3
Project Design . . . . .....    .   . . . . . . . . .  . . 4
Preparation  .      ... ........    ..         .. . . . . .  .   4
Environmental Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..5
Project Concept .        .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Project Design and Organization         . . . . . . .        5
Cost Estimates .        .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Execution  .. ......  .  .          . . . . . . . . # .   .  6
Project Implementation .     .     .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up  .  .   . . . . . .   6
Implementation Schedule   .        . . .  .  .  .    .    .   . .  .   6
Procurement  ....  .     .  .  .  .  . . . .  .  .  .  .    .    .   . .  .   8
Project Costs  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....    9
Disbursements .......... .  ...  9
Loan Allocations ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....    9
Project Results  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   9
Evaluation Overview  . . . ........................... .     9
Summary of Program Results .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Economic Re-evaluation ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Results  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Limitations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Sustainability and Environmental Impact  . . . . .  11
Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Borrower Performance .......... .......                        14
Project Relationships  .........   .....                .      15
Consulting Services  .......... ........    15
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
This document has e restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .  16
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
1.  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
3.  Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  . . . .   23
4.  Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs at Appraisal and Completion . . . . . .  24
B.  Disbursement Allocations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
S.  Project Results
A.  Traffic Estimates . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
B.  Vehicle Operating Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
C.  Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
6.  Status of Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . ..              .   29
7.  Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff  Inputs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
B.    Missions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
ANNEX: PROGRAM EVALUATION OVERVIEW



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Highway
Project of the Northwest Region Development Program in Brazil, for which
Loan No. 2062-BR, in the amount of US$240 million, was approved on
December 1, 1981. The Loan was closed on September 30, 1988 two years
and three months after the origlnal closing date.  Approximately
US$42.1 million was canceled from the Loan account in two separate
tranches; US$34.0 million was canceled as of June 30, 1987 and the
remainlng balance of US$8.1 million was canceled effective October 14,
1989.
2.        The PCR wae prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Brazi. Department, of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. The Borrower provided the information in Part II of
the PCR.
3.        The PCR was prepared in April/May 1990 in line with the
Guidelines of June 1989. It is based LDntr alia on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, the correspondence files
including supervision reports, and on interviews with Bank sta_  who
prepared and supervised the project.



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062BRI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY i/2
Project Obiactives
1.        The project loan wau one of three presented to the Board
simultaneously, which together formed the first phase of the Bank's
participation in an integrated development program for northwest Brazil
(POLONOROESTE program). This program was designed to help bring order
to the spontaneous settlement of the federal territory of Rondonia,
which became a state early in 1982, and the western part of the state of
Mato Grosso. The program aimed at increasing the productivity, income,
and social welfare of the region's present and future population, and
was expected to ben*efit directly some 18,200 small-scale farm families.
At the core of the program was the paving of the heavily travelled and
badly deteriorated 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road, and the investments
reauired to achieve the balanced socio-economic development of the
road's area of influence (paras. 2.02-2.06).
2.        As part of the Northwest Development Program, the highway
project aimed to: (a) reduce transport costs and improve traffic
conditions by providing permanent road transport facilities in the
region; and (b) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the
1/ Since the project was only a part of a program, which also included
agricultural, rural development and environmental protection components
which, although financed under separate loans, were designed to jointly
achieve the stated development objectives, a qualitative assessment of
selected aspects of the POLONOROESTE program was prepared jointly by the
Infrastructure and the Agricultural Operations Divisions, and the
resulting Program Evaluation Overview is presented as an Annex to this
report.
2/   The Evaluation Summary, mainly its project result section,
incorporates the main findings and conclusicns of the assessment of the
program against its stated developmental objectives, since most effects
of the program cannot be attributed to its specific components, and in
particular to the highway project. The rest of the main report presents
an evaluation of the highway project against its narrower objectives,
i.e. the improvement of road connections and the strengthening of road
administration.



iii
Rondonia Highway Department fDER-RO) ln order to improve and rationallze
the state's road adminLitratLon, particularly in order to cope with its
increased responsibliLty under the program.
Proiect Descriotion
3.        The highway project consisted of the following main
components:
(a) reconstruction, including paving of about 1,084 km of
highway, between Corrego Campinas (Hato Grosso) and
Arlquemes (Rondonia), and consultant services for
supervision of constructLon;
(b) upgrading of the Rondonla Roads Department's (DER-RO)
administrative and implementatlon capabilities) and
(c) construction or improvement of about 500 km of feeder
roads in Rondonia and of about 488 km in Mato Grosso.
The bulk of the project was to be implemented over the four-year period
1982-85. The other two associated projects were an agricultural
development and environmental protection project (Loan 2060-BR) and a
health project (Loan 2063-BR) (para. 3.02).
Proiect Imolementation
4.        The Northwest Hlghway, the major component of the project, was
completed satisfactorily at the end of 1984, about a year ahead of
schedule. The DER-RO component, involving the institution building of a
state highway dapartment, was completed in 1988 after a three year
delay. Problems were encountered in the early stage of carrying out the
feeder road component but it was satisfactorily completed in 1986. only
about 50% of the Northwest Flood Rehabilitation component, which was
added to the project in mld 1985, was flrished. The project war
completed at a considerable cost savings ln US dollar terms (para. 5)
but it required increases ln the disbursement rates for most components
(paras. 5.03, 5.06, 5.08, 5.09 and 5.12).
5.        The Project was completed basically at a cost, in constant
local currency, equLvalent to the appraisal estimate of the base cost
plus p4ysLcal contLngencies. But because of the earliar completlon of
the highway, of payment delays and of the rapid devaluation of the local
currency, the dollar equLvalent of the payments made by the executing
agencLes (US$365.6 million) were substantlally less than the appraisal
estimate of US$687 milllon (Table 4A). Of the Loan amount of US$240.0
million, about US$197.9 mllion was dlsbursed; the remalning US$42.1
million was canceled (paras. 5.12 and 5.13).



iv
6.        The reduction of deslgn  tandards for shoulder widths and the
asphalt surface requested by the Borrower for rea3ons of economy, and
ar.reed to by the Bank ln an amendment of the Loan Agreement, do not
appear to have been appropriate in the light of projected traffic levele
(para. 5.04).
7.        In retrospect, the emergency flood rehabilitation component
added to the project was dlfficult to supervise since the works were not
in the project area. Origlnally, they were not limited to highway needs
and did not appear to have been clearly identified (para. 5.11).
Proiect Results
8.        In most respects, the program as a whole dld not achieve the
sound, sustalnable economlc and social development of the reglon, which
was its basic purpose. However, by establishing and strengthening
institutions and lnltiating lmportant research, it laid the basis for
expanded efforts in the future, provlded a strong politlcal commitment
is backed with adequate resources of staff and fund.. A qualitatlve
assessment of selected aspects of the program is presented in the Annex
to this report; the main conclusions are summarized hereinafter:
(a) the construction and improvement of the highway and of
the feeder and access roads achioved thelr main
objectives of facilitating migration to the region and
giving settlers access te markets and services. But the
component to strengthen the DER-RO was less effective;
the department is maintaining less than half the roads
under its responsibllity (paras. 4-7 of the Annex);
(b) the effort to consolidate land settlement and
agricultural prcduction was too small to make a
sufflclent lmpact on the reglon's development. Whlle
agricultural production has increased conslderably, the
long-term viability and environmental consequences of the
agricultural development in sensitive frontier lands is
still uncertain (paras. 8-18 of the Annex);
(c)  environmental conditions in the area have continued to
deteriorate. Deforestation has been rapid and agro-
forestry efforts insufficient. Mining has led to
extensive water and soil pollution. Biological reserves,
ecological stations, as well as a state environment
agency, a forestry and a land institutes, and a forestry
military police have been established, but insufficient
support has limited their effectiveness (paras. 19-27 of
the Annex);
(d) most of the Indian reserves have been demarcated, but
protecting the reserves against illegal invasions has
been difficult (paras. 30-37 of the Annex); and



v
(a) the economic re-evaluation of the program, which was
carrled out following the general methodology used for
the original assessment, led to a new estimated rate of
return of 16%, much lower than the above-50% appraisal
estimate. Both estimates, however, are of limited
significance since they do not allow for important
external costs (e.g. the consequences of unplanned
deforestation) and benefits (e.g. the building of
institutions), which could not be quantified
(paras. 6.03-6.05).
9.        It seems likely that without the program, migration would have
been les or spread over a longer period of time, depending on the
Government's ability to complete the highway without Dank assistance,
but that agricultural settlements would have been less orderly and
productive and that protection of the environment and the Amerlndians
would have been substantially weaker.
10.       The are a number of reasons for the shortcomings, mainlys
(a) the Government of Brazil was strongly committed to
opening up the frontier area to migration, but it gave
lower priority to the other components, especially to the
protection of the environment and the Amerindians;
(b) the shortage of counterpart funds remained pervasive
during the period;
(c)  the key institutions responsible for the environment were
weak and the implementation schedule of the program was
not realistic;
(d) the volume of migration had not been foreseen, and the
scale of the program was too small to deal with the
impact of such massive migration;
(e) the phasing of the implementation of different components
undermined orderly development. In particular, the early
completion of the road accelerated migration before the
institutions and policies were in place to assure proper
agricultural settlement and protection of the environment
and the Amerindians; and
(f) the arrangements for monitoring and evaluation did not
work adequately (para. 35 of the Annex)
Protect Sustainability
11.            Many sections of the highway (about one third in length)
are already in a bad condition as a result of inadequate routine and
preventive maintenance, insufficient enforcement of the axle load



vl
restrcLtions, and of the reduction of the design standards for the
asphalt surface. D!R-RO was reporcrod to be maintalnlng about 2000 km of
federal, state and municLpal roads, or les  than half of the roads under
its responaLbility; the rest of the network wao not adaquately
malntalned (parao. 5.04, 5.07 and 7.01-7.03).
12.            The average daily trafflc on the hlghway, however,
appears to be close to that forecasted at appraLeal (para. 7.02, and
Part IIS, Table 5A). The ongoLng extensLon of the Northwest Highway
from Porto Velho westward lnto the state of Acre will result ln
lncreased trafflc on the project road beyond the growth that has already
taken place.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
13.       The implementation of the program offers a number of important
general lessons:
(a) given the fragility of the frontier areas, a strategy for
frontier development should be carefully weighed agaLnst
other policies to lmprove employment opportunities and
living standardi (para. 44 of the Annex);
(b)  Government commltment to the objectlves of a program is
always important, but it becomes crucial when the
political and economic risks are unusually high, the
institutional basis w-ak and the Government is faced with
serious financial difficulties (para. 45 of the Annex);
(c) a project whlch is undertaken as an experiment, with
limited knowledge of its potorntial effects, requires an
effective monitoring system to quickly identlfy any
miLjudments made in project design and permit prompt
remedial actions durLng implementation (paras. 46-47 of
the Annex);
(d) the integration and the realistic phasing of the program
components, which are essential to the success of the
whole program, but inherently difficult because of the
different agencLes involved, need to be fully addressed
during project preparation and implementation (paras. 48-
49 of the Annex); and
(e) for programs or projects of this size and complexity,
with such major risks, which require effective monitoring
and supervision, the Bank should consider the
desirability of stationing its own staff in the field
(para. 51 of the Annex).
14.         The Bank, by financing the road, may have helped to
accelerate migration to the region before the institutions were ready to



viL
handle the rapLd Lncrease ln population. The Bank does not seem to have
questioned the basLo strategy for development of the Amazon region, and
the flnancial pollcles whlch Ln effect subeLdized uneconomlc forest
exploltatlon and were, therefore, lnconelitent wlth the program
objectLves. Nor dld the Bank appreoiate that the scope of tne program
woo lnsufficlent to address the range and slze of the problems wnleh the
regLon faced (paras. 4-7, 18, and 44 of the Annex).
15.       On the other hand, the Bank played a valuable role ln
promotLng orderly settlement, strengthenlng the protectlon of the
envlronment and of Amerindians, and in encouraglng some necessary
modlficatlons durlng implementation (paras. 8-10, 19-27 t.id 30-34 of the
Annex).
16.       The hlghway project was technlcally well prepared wlth the
exception of the DER-RO lnstitutlonal strengthenLng component, whlih
would have bencflted from the participatlon of a trainlng or management
specLalLst ln its preparatlon and appralsal.  Unfortunately, such a
specialist was not brought in untll implementatlon started (para. 8.04).
17.       The lnformal suspenelon, ln 1985, of disbursements for the
overall program may well have been appropriate in securing Government
action on certaln envlronmental issues, but lt seriously weakened the
implementatLon of the most difficult project compc..nent, the development
of DER-RO, because the consulting flrm withdrew hls staff. Under these
circumstances, lt would have been more approprlate to have exempted thls
relatively small component from the suspenslon (para. 8.05).
18.       Most amendments to the loan documents, with the exceptLon of
the one noted in para. 6 above, particularly those to Lncrease the rate
of disbursement of the loan, were approprlate and helpful to the
Borrower ln light of the rapid devaluation of the local currency and the
time required fox disbursements (para. 8.06).
19.       The Bank aseigned a resident highway engineer to the field to
supervise the feeder road and DER-RO components of the program and other
feeder roads projects in Brazil. This field assignment, as compared to
periodic field missions, substantially increased the effectiveness of
the Bank in quickly identifying implementation problems and seeking
remedial actions, but it was limited to the road components. After late
1987, the Bank's supervision of the project became barely adequate
(para. 8.08).
20.       The Borrower carried out the construction components of the
project expeditiously and competently. The maln executing problems were
encountered in carrying out the DER-RO component which experienced a
three year delay in completion. Furthermore, the Borrower failed to
control axle loading and to maintain the highway adequately
(paras. 9.01-9.04).



NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN 2062-BRI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSM!.IVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Name          : Northwest Region Development Program
Highway Project
Loan Number   : 2062-BR
Loan Amount   : US$240.0 million
RVP Unit      : Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country       : Brazil
Sector        : Transport
Subsector     : Highways
2.   Backaround
2.01     By the time the above project was presented, the Bank had a
long history of lending to Brazil, including eight loans totalling about
US$650 million to the highway sub-sector. The Northwest Regional
Development Program represented a concerted effort by the Bank to expand
previous lending operations into a coordinated program of roadis, health
and agriculture in the northwest, the most underdeveloped part of the
country. The Government's POLONOROESTE Program was more concerned with
the development of the region and thus concentrated primarily on the
building of roads.
2.02     This report re-evaluates the highway project of the Northwest
Region Development Program. Phase I of this program, was to have been
carried out over the years 1981-1986, and was supported by three World
'ank loans, totalling US$320 million, which covered about 35% of the
total Phase I project cost. The three loans included:
(a) the reconstruction of tha Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway,
strengthening of the Rondonia Highway Department and
construction of feeder roads. Loan 2062-BR which is the
subject of this PCR, amounted to US$240 million;
(b) the Rondonia Health Project covered by Loan 2061-BR for
US$13 million;
(c) the Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
Project supported by Loan 2060-BR for US$67 million.



- 2 -
Phase II of the program included a Mato Grosso Rural Development Project
(Loan 2116-BR, US$26.4 million) and Phase III included a New Settlements
Project (Loan 2353-BR, US$65.2 million).
2.03     The first three projects, which formed the first phase of Bank
participation in the Northwest Region Development Program, were
appraised and processed in parallel as a package for presentation to the
Bank's Executive Directors. The Government's commitment to carry out
the entire program, including measures concerning the protection of the
rights of Amerindian communities in the Region as well as environmental
protection, was reflected in a decree, signed by the President of the
Republic on May 27, 1981.
2.04     The Northwest Region covers approximately 410,000 ki2, about
three-quarters the size of France, although slightly less than 5% of
Brazil. It included the entire federal territory of Rondonia which
became a state early in 1982, and 14 western municipalities in the state
of Mato Grosso, all officially considered within the area of influence
of the 1439 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway, BR-364 (Map IBRD 14865R2).
The regional population was estimated in 'he neighborhood of 1,060,000
in 1980. The average population density if the region was still less
than three inhabitants per km, mostly concentrated in towns and
agricultural settlements built along the project highway.
2.05     Highways and roads constituted the core of the Northwest
Region's transport system. In 1978, the region was estimated to have
exported about 513,000 tons of goods, 98% by truck and the rest by air
and river. The vehicles moving these exports brought an estimated
840,000 tons of goods into the Region. There were about 3,000 km of
federal highways, including the project highway, which was the spinal
axis of tCe system.  In addition, there were about 2,000 km of state
feeder roads and 6,500 km of municipal access roads. However, the
condition of the road system was clearly a major impediment to
development, since most of the roads, particularly in Rondonia, were
tracks open only for seasonal use.
2.06     The lack of physical access to markets, which resulted in high
levels of crop loss, was recognized as a major constraint in the
development of the Northwest Region. The Northwest Development Program
consequently placed a special emphasis on the upgrading and paving of
the Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway as well as on the improvement of the
feeder road network in the areas of greatest agricultural potential.
The Program envisaged construction or improvement of about 2,880 km of
feeder roads and about 5,400 km of farm-to-market municipal access
roads. The feeder roads, wlth an estimated cost of about US$140 million
equivalent, were financed under two subprograms: one of  ,530 km ln the
territory of Rondonia and one of 1,350 km in the state of Mato Grosso.
Phase I packages, which covered about 488 km for Mato Groseo and 500 km
for Rondonia, were financed under the highway project.



-3-
3.  Proiegt Objectives and Descrintion
3.01     Proiect Obiectivess As part of the Northwest Development
Program, the highway project aimed:
(a) to reduce transport costs and improve traffic conditions
by providing permanent road transport facilities in the
region; and
(b) to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the
Rondonia Highway Department (DUR-RO) in order to improve
and rationalize the state's road administration,
particularly in order to cope with its increased
responsibility under the Program.
3.02     Proiect Description: The project consisted of three main
components:
(i) Hiahwav Construction and Operation
(a) civil works by contract for upgrading, including paving,
of about 1,084 km-1 of the Northwest Highway between
Corrego Campinas and Ariquemes, the construction of four
bridges in the Cuiaba-Caceres section, and the
construction of three maintenance residences, one weighing
station and about nine highway patrol stations and depots
along the entire highway;
(b) consulting services to assist the National Roads
Department (DNER) in the supervision of the civil works,
and for installing the weighing station; and
(e) acquisition and installation of (i) a weighing scale;
(ii) vehicles and radio units for the federal highway
patrol unit; and (iii) equipment, vehicles and traffic
counters for monitoring pavement behavior.
(ii) Strenothenina of Rondonia' s Hichwav Denartment IDIR-RO)
Restructuring and strengthening DER-RO's organization and
functions to provide for the planning, programming, execution
and control of the state's road network. The project would
includes
(a) construction by contract of about 10,000 me of residencies,
maintenance depots and workshops;
The two end sections, Cuiaba-Corrego Campinas and Ariquemes-Porto
Velho, totalling 359 km, were being reconstructed and paved by the
Army. The overall length of the highway is thus 1443 km.



(b) acquisition of about 370 units of plant, equipment and
vehicles for road maintenance, training and traffic
controll
(c) equipment for offices, laboratories, workshops and storeug
and
(d) techrical assistance to improve DER-RO's administrative
and implen.entation capabilities and to train its personnel
as well as that of the municipalities.
(iii) Feeder Road Programs in Mato Grosso and Rondonia
(a) three-year (1982-1984) programs for construction of new,
and improvement of existing feeder roads, including 488 km
in Mato Grosso and 500 km in Rondonia. Both programs were
to be carried out through the National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE);
(b) preparation of further road construction and improvement
projects in Rondonia and in Mato Grosso in support of the
Northwest Development Program.
4.   Proiect Desian
4.01     Pre:aration:  In 1979, shortly after preparation got underway,
the Bank recognized that Brazil had graduated from the standard type of
Lighway construction loans, the main objectives of which were:
(i) to support the delegation of maintenance to the state level and
to build up adequate maintenance capacity at that leveL;
(ii) to develop adequate programs to meet mounting rehabilitation
requirements on federal and state roads; and
(iii) to support feeder roads programs and improve related planning
and financing systems.
The subject highway project was noted in the project brief as unrelated
to the above objectives as it was prepared as one component of a
comprehensive program to harness the agricultural development of a vast
region covering Mato Grosso and Rondonia. However, the program also
included specific agricuirural development projects and feeder road
programs which were similar to previous projects. It was pointed out
that "adequate understanding on the main components of the development
program for the zone of influence of the project highway would have to
be reached before approval of the road construction project", and that a
regional development mission to review the program, was in the field
looking into these matters.



4.02     Environmental Issuess  Following the visit of the RegLonal
Development Mission to Brazil in October 1979, it became apparent that
some major environmental aspects of the program, whlih would be
supported by tho proposed highway project, needed further review. Over
the next year, environmental issues overshadowed preparation of the
project. shortly after the project was first appraised in June 1980, it
became evident that the environmental isaues had become of such
widespread international concern, that they could only be handled by an
ir.tegrated program for the development of the Northwest Region. Thus
the project was again appraised in March 1981 as part of the overall
program as described in para. 2.02 above.
4.03     As the environmental issues in the Northwest Development
Program are being covered in a separate project completion report and
summarized in the Program Evaluation Overview in the Annex, they are
only raised in the report when they particularly affected the
preparation and execution of the highway project. Environmental issues
were of major concern to the Bank at the time of project preparation and
appraisal, and as a result of the Bank's efforts to deal with them
adequately, the processing of the project was delayed by about one year.
4.04     Proiect Concept.  The project was clearly different from
earlier projects in Brazil and this seemed to have been well understood
by the parties involved. The concept of the project was innovative both
in scope and sizq. It represented the single largest overall regional
development program yet launched by the Bank, and was designed in line
with the scale of the enormous task foreseen in the project objectives
and description.
4.05     Proiect Desian and Organization:  The project was generally
well prepared and involved the contribution of several Bank operational
divisions and CPS. The project timing was none too soon as the proposed
highway already existed as a track and was in the process of being
rebuilt and paved by the Army; but the paving of the highway, when the
measures to remedy the adverse effects on the environment were not in
place, was actually too early. Participation of the Bank at that time
gave it the opportunity to play a substantial role in formulating how
the Region was to be developed, and enabled it to raise critical
environmental issues which otherwise might have been ignored.
4.06     The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
involved in the project seemed to have been clearly defined, and were
well understood, judging by the generally good performance in executing
the project, except for the DER-RO component. The most successful
aspect of the project design was the thorough effort made in overseeing
the design and construction of the Northwest Highway, and its overall
supervision by the Borrower.
4.07     Cost Estimates:  The total cost of the project was estimated at
appraisal at US$687 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component,
which was about 35% of the total cost, i.e., US$240 million, was



- 6 -
financed by the loan. The remaining cost (US$447 million) was financed
by the Federal Government, either directly or through BNDE.
4.08     The total cost of the Northwest Highway construction was
estimated at about US$487 million equivalent, including about 20% in
taxes as well as supervision and physical contingencies. These cost
estimates were based on awarded contracts. The average construction
cost per km for all road sections in the Highway was about US$365,000
equivalent, excluding r pervision and physical contingencies; including
these contingencies, the cost was US$449,000 per km. The feeder roads
were estimated to cost about US$35,600/km in Rondonia and US$40,000/km
in Nato Grosso. These estimates, which included supervision and
physical contingencies, were based on feasibility studies and samples of
detailed engineering. No co-financing was involved in the project.
4.09     Execution:  DNER was responsible for the execution of the
highway construction component, the Rondonia state government was
responsible for strengthening Rondonia's Highway Department, while BNDE
was the apex executing agency for the feeder road component.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.01     Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up:  Loan 2062-BR was
approved on December 1, 1981, signed on December 15, 1981 and became
effective on April 26, 1982. The project timetable is given in
Part III, Table 2.
5.02     Implementation Schedule:  The project was originally scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1985, but the last component was not
completed until 1988.
5.03     The construction of the Northwest Hichway, which was by far the
single largest component of the project, was substantially completed at
the end of 1984, a year in advance of schedule. The decision taken
following the first appraisal mission, to divide the highway into 19
smaller construction lots, appears to have been wise as the rebidding
resulted in lower prices, presumably because of a more competitive
atmosphere. Supervision by six local consulting firms was adequate and
well coordinated by DNER. As would be expected on such a long highway,
some local variants to the alignment were proposed by DNER and were
approved by the Bank.
5.04     In mid 1983, DNER proposed to reduce the stoulder width from
1.9 m to 1.5 m and to change the asphalt running surface from triple to
double surface treatment. These changes were accepted by the Bank but
do not appear to have been realistic in the light of the forecasted
traffic of up to 2000 vpd. Given the flat to rolling terrain over which
most of the highway was built, it would seem that even the agreed
standard of 1.9 m was nominal. A shoulder width of 2.5 m which would
allow a truck to pull completely off the pavement, would have been more



appropriate.y As regards the running surface, even a triple surface
treatment would appear inadequate for much traffic, although it was
agreed between the Borrower and the Dank that the third course would be
applied shortly after completion. In hindsight, given the volume of
traffic which eventually developed on the Highway, an asphalt concrete
pavement would have lasted longer (para. 5.07).
5.05     The reductions in design standards were made at the request of
DNER for the purpose of reducing the cost of highway construction.
Tight finances also led DNER to request increases in the disbursement
percentage. for the highway components from 35% of expenditures to 65%.
The latter was justified because of the rapid devaluation of the local
currency in which the contracts were denominated, to the US dollar, and
the time required for disbursements.
5.06     A Bank supervision mission in May 1986 reported that it ' d
observed pavement deterioration and lack of maintenance on some sbations
of the Northwest Highway. Also, successive supervision missions called
attention to the lack of axle load control on all segments of the
highway. The project provided two weigh stations, and the Government
had specifically agreed to enforce weight restrictions.
5.07     According to the findings of a June 1990 project completion
mission, the Highway is not being properly maintained. Only about 26%
of the highway is in good condition, 41% is in average condition and 33%
is in bad condition. Some of the pavement has reverted to a gravel
surface. Emergency repairs by contract were started earlier this year.
Axle loan restrictions are not being enforced and the two weigh stations
financed under the project are not operational.
5.08     The most serious implementation difficulties were encountered
in developing DER-RO's institutional capabilities and in training its
personnel. The DER-RO component including the construction and
equipping of maintenance depots, aLd the purchase of maintenance
equipment was completed after a three year delay. This delay was
attributed to a) financial problems in the newly formed state of
Rondonia which caused a shortage of local funding; b) difficulties in
retaining good managers; and c) delays in appointing the Technical
Assistant (TA) consultanta. The rather small provision for TA (120 man
months over a four year period), and the tight schedule given in the
SAR, indicate that the difficulties in establishing DER-RO were under-
estimated by the Bank. As the project road works were completed ahead
of schedule, this placed an even heavier maintenance burden on the
fledging DER-RO.
5.09     In 1985, the Bank suspended disbursements on the three projects
in the Northwest Region Development Program because the Covernment was
2j   According to the World Bank publication of May 1975 "A Review of
Highway Design practices in Developing Countries."



not complying with important loan conditions concerning the Amerindians.
Unfortunately, the unintended result of the suspension was that the
foreign TA conoulting firm who had recently started work, demobilized
its staff. However, its local partner continued to work. According to
a Bank supervision report dated June 13, 1985, the momentum gained
earlier in strengthenirg DER-RO was largely lost. The report also noted
that reactivation of the program would be difficult because of personnel
changes in the state government. Finally, in 1986, a new state governor
dismissed most of the technical staff in the Highway Department, thus
the little progress that lt had made appeared to have been disrupted. A
further problem to implementing the component was the objection of the
Government to use a foreign consultant as originally agreed upon to
provide technical assistance. This objection was finally overcome by an
amendment to the disbursement schedule to allow the Bank to disburse
100% of *oreign costs.
5.10     The implementation of the Feeder Road component got off to a
poor start in Rondonia in late 1982. The Bank's resident engineer found
that works were "out of control and that cost overruns were likely to
reach 65%."1 This was due to overdesign, poor supervision and
contractors pressure to increase the volume of works. Some works were
canceled and rebid on the basis of acceptable detailed engineering. In
Mato Grosso, the final design of the feeder roads had to be rejected
because of over-design. The executing authority was persuaded by the
Bank to engage a consultant to review the designs. The firm action
taken on this component at the beginning led to the work being
satisfactorily completed. The preparatory work for future feeder road
projects was also satisfactorily carried out.
5.11     In mid-1985, a fourth component, the Northeast Flood Emeraency
Rehabilitation of federal roads and urban works was added to the project
at an estimated cost of US$60 million. Because of problems in
identifying and locating these works, some of which were not of an
emergency nature, the scope of the component was eventually reduced to
about half the size originally contemplated when the project description
was amended. The Bank mainly financed flood works on federal roads
while flood works on state roads were dropped.
5.12     The completion of the feeder roads component was greatly
assisted by a Special Action Program (SAP) set-up by the Bank and the
Borrower to expedite a number of projects in Brazil. The SAP involved
increased participation of the Bank in the cost sharing arrangements,
and associated special grants made by the Federal Government to state
and municipal agencies.
5.13     Procurement.  With the exception of the problem regarding the
selection of a TA consultant for DER-RO (para. 5.08), procurement action
went well under the project, and Bank guidelines were generally
followed.



- 9 -
5.14     Proiect Costa.  The final cost of the total project was
US$366.6 million as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$687.0
million (Part III - Table 4A).  There have been substantial overruns in
the earthworks of the Northwest Highway, but they have been partly
compensated by the reduction in design standards, including shoulder
widths and surface treatments.  The highway was completed basically at a
cost in constant local currency equivalent to the appraisal estimate of
the base cost plus physical contingencies. The bulk of the cost-savings
in US dollar terms are credited to the earlier completion of the highway
and to the joint effect of payment delays and the rapid devaluation of
the local currency.
5.15     Disbursements.  Of the loan amount of US$240.0 million, about
US$197.9 million was disbursed. The estimated and actual disbursements
of the loan are given in Part III, Table 3. Disbursements were slower
than anticipated at appraisal because of the savings on the highway
construction component (para. 5.14), and delays in implementing the DER-
RO component. The original loan closing date was extended twice to
September 30, 1988. An interim cancellation of US$34 million was made
well after it became evident that substantial savings would accrue: The
final disbursement was made on September 14, 1987 after which the
outstanding balance of US$8,059,047.69 was canceled effective
October 14, 1989.
5.16     Loan Allocations.  The appraisal and actual allocations of Loan
2062-BR are shown in Part III, table 4B.
6.   Proiect Results
6.01     Evaluation Overview.  Since the project was only a part of a
program, which also included agricultural, rural development and
environmental protection components which, although financed under
separate loans, were designed to jointly achieve the stated development
objectives, a qualitative assessment of selected aspects of the
POLONOROESTE program as a whole was prepared jointly by the
Infrastructure and the Agricultural Operations Divisions. The resulting
Program Evaluation Overview is presented as an Annex to this report, and
the main results are briefly summarized hereafter.
6.02.    Summary of Prooram Results. In most respects, the program as a
whole did not achieve the sound, sustainable economic and social
development of the region, which was its basic purpose. However, by
establishing and strengthening institutions, and initiating important
research, it laid the basis for expanded efforts in the future, provided
a strong political commitment is backed with adequate resources of staff
and funds. In particular:
(a) the construction and improvement of the highway and of the
feeder and access roads achieved their main objectives of
facilitating migration to the region and giving settlers
access to markets and services. But the component to



- 10 -
strengthen the DER-RO was less effective; the department
is maintaining less than half the roads under its
responsibility (paras. 4-7 of the Annex);
(b) the effort to consolidate land settlement and agricultural
production was too small to make a sufficient impact on
the region's development. While agricultural production
has increased considerably, the long-term viability and
environmental consequences of the agricultural development
in sensitive frontier lands is still uncertain (paras. 8-
18 of the Annex);
(c) environmental conditions in the area have continued to
deteriorate. Deforestation has been rapid and agro-
forestry efforts insufficient. Mining has led to
extensive water and soil pollution. Biological reserves,
ecological stations, as well as a state environment
agency, a forestry and a land institutes, and a forestry
military police have been established, but insufficient
support has limited their effectiveness (paras. 19-27 of
the Annex); and
(d) most of the Indian reserves have been demarcated, but
protecting the reserves against illegal invasions has been
difficult (paras. 30-37 of the Annex);
6.03     Economic Re-evaluation.  An economic re-evaluation of the
program was carried out following the general methodology used in the
assessment made at appraisal (Annex 2 of the SAR). on the cost side of
the evaluation were included: (a) the construction and maintenance of
the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway, of the major feeder roads included in
the Highway Project (Alimentadoras), and of the other feeder roads
included in the Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
project (Loan 2060-BR) and the Mato Grosso Rural Development project
(Loan 2116-BR); and (b) the increased off-farm agricultural production
costs, as they were estimated in the PCRs for the above projects. Two
main kinds of benefits have been quantified: {i) the incremental value
added of the agricultural production, net of on-farm costs, in the
agricultural component areas of the above projects, resulting from
improved and expanded agricultural output; and (ii) the vehicle
operating cost savings due to the improved road connections, which have
been reduced by those generated by the agricultural project areas (about
10% of total traffic), to avoid double counting such benefits. Vehicle
operating costs have been estimated with the help of the Highway Design
and Maintenance Model (version 3), on the basis of conservative
assumptions regarding future traffic increases (about 3 to 5%) and
pavement condition and deterioration (Table 5B).
6.04     Rults. The net present value of the net benefits of the
program, discounted at the rate of 12%, is now estimated at about USS200
million (against a US$3.9 billion appraisal estimate), and the rate of



- 11 -
return for the program is now estimated at about 16%, much lower than
the above-50% rate in the SAR. These results, however, are not directly
comparable. The SAR estimated the incremental value added of
agricultural production for the entire program area on the basis of the
limited information of the agricultural project areas. Since the
agricultural project areae have the best soils, and therefore are not
representative of the entire program area, the incremental value added
of agricultural production had probably been substantially over--
estimated in the SAR. In the re-evaluation, the estimate of incremental
value added of agricultural production was limited to the agricultural
component areas, as a result of the inadequate data outside such areas,
and the program's benefits derived from agricultural development outside
theme areas or from other activities were estimated on the basis of the
new traffic which was generated by the reduction of transport costs. The
results reflect both lower costs and substantially lower benefits from
agricultural production in the project areas, as well as even lower
benefits from agricultural production, if any, in the rest ot the
program area. Table SC shows the .idividual streams of costs and
benefits, and the results of the economic re-evaluation.
6.05     Limitations. The significance of the results of the economic
re-evaluation of the program is limited by a number of factors. First,
it has not been possible, due to the lack of data, to make a reliable,
quantitative assessment of the impact of the program on the development
of agriculture in the entire program area; and, as noted above, the
impact of the program on the agricultural project areas is not
representative of the impact in the entire program area. Although some
of the effects of the program on the agriculture as well as on the other
productive sectors in the program area, including forestry, cattle
ranching and mining, might be accounted for in the re-evaluation through
the benefits attributed to the traffic generated on the roads as a
result of the reduction of transport costs, a direct assessment of the
true economic costs and benefits of the new activities would have been
more adequate, but it was not possible due to the lack of reliable,
quantitative data. Also, the rate of return calculations do not take
into account the important external costs and benefits which could not
be quantified, such as the costs of the consequences of unplanned
deforestation and the benefits of the building of institutions. The
Evaluation Overview in the Annex to the report presents a more
comprehensive, mainly qualitative assessment of these effects.
7.   Proiect Sustainabilitv and Environmental Impact
7.01.         Road Maintenance. According to the findings of the June
1990 project completion mission, many sections of the highway (about one
third in length) are already in a bad condition as a result of
inadequate routine and preventive maintenance, insufficient enforcement
of the axle load restrictions, and of the reduction of the design
standards for the asphalt surface. DER-RO was reported to be
maintaining about 2000 km of federal, state and municipal roads, or loss



- 12 -
than half of the roads under its responsibility; the rest of the network
was not adequately maintained.
7.02.         Hiahwav Traffic.  The average daily traffic (ADT) on the
highway, however, appears to be close to that forecasted at appraisal.
The ADT was ranging from around 900 to around 1,700 vpd in 1987, and
substantially higher traffic volumes were registered on some sections
with heavy local traffic (Part III, Table SA). The ongoing extension of
the Northweot Highway from Porto Velho westward into the state of Acre
will result in increased traffic on the project road beyond the growth
that has already taken place.
7.03     The continuing maintenance of the Northwest Highway which is a
responsibility of the Federal government, and project feeder roads is of
concern. While belated repairs have been started on the Highway,
assurances are needed, that they will be promptly carried out.
Additional maintenance facilities and equipment were provided to DER-RO
for the maintenance of state and feeder roads under the project during
the last year of its execution. However, as noted in para. 6.03, DER-RO
is maintaining less than half the roads under its responsibility.
7.04     Efforts were made during construction of the Northwest Highway
to control borrow pits to the extent possible to minimize the build-up
of stagnant water as a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Health care was
provided to all construction workers at the contractors' camps.
7.05     The main risks of the overall Development Program continue to
be environmental. Deforestation has been rapid in Rondonia, and was
mainly the result of clearing for agricultural purposes along the main
highway and feeder roads (Annex, section C). Concern was also expressed
that while progress was being made in the demarcation of Amerindian
lands, it had not yet resulted in the desired level of protection for
these areas (Annex, section E).
8.   Bank Performance
8.01     The performance of the Bank, as reviewed in the context of the
overall program, is discussed in the Program Evaluation Overview in the
Annex. The main conclusions of this review are briefly summarized in the
next paragraph. The paragraphs which follow review the performance of
the Bank in the context of the specific objectives of the highway
project.
8.02     By financing the road, the Bank may have helped to accelerate
migration to the region before the institutions were ready to handle the
rapid increase in population. The Bank does not seem to have questioned
the basic strategy for development of the Amazon region, and the
financial policies which in effect subsidized uneconomic forest
exploitation and were, therefore, inconsistent with the program
objectives. Nor did the Bank appreciate that the scope of the program
was insufficient to address the range and size of the problems which the



- 13 -
region faced. On the other hand, the Bank played a valuable role in
promoting orderly settlement, strengthening the protection of the
environment and of Amerindians, and in encouraging some necessary
modifications during implementation.
8.03     The Bank performed well in preparing the technical aspects of
the highway project, with the few exception. noted below.
8.04     The DER-RO component was inadequately prepared, and this lack
of preparation is responsible for much of the implementation delays
which were experienced with this component. A training or manugement
specialist was not included in any of the preparation or appraisal
missions. A training specialist was only sent to Brazil briefly in late
1981 to help prepare the delayed TOR for the TA consultant and to
discuss selection of candidates for training abroad. Even then, he did
not visit the project area but only met officials in Rio de Janeiro. If
these and other preparatory steps had been taken earlier in the project
cycle, the execution of this component might have encountered fewer
delays. It is concluded that the difficulties of establishing a new
technical organization in a new state to assume responsibility for state
and feeder roads, were clearly underestimated by the Bank.
8 05     Supervision missions promptly identified the problems delaying
implementation of the DER-RO component, and promptly brought the
problems to the Borrower's attention. The suspension of the three loans
for the Northwest Region Development Program for lack of action on
environmental matters, may have been justified in securing remedial
action on these matters, but it was not useful in securing corrective
action on the DER-RO component. As a result of the suspension, the
foreign TA consulting firm demobilized and the momentum which had been
developed in DER-RO was partially lost. It seems doubtful whether
suspending Loan 2062-BR was appropriate when the project had already
been completed, except for one small and difficult component on which
some progress was being made. Preferably, the Loan should have been
exempted from the suspension.
8.06     Regarding the Northeast Flood Emergency component, the works
were widely scattered, they were not in the project area, and even
included non-highway works that required the involvement of urban Bank
staff. In light of the Bank's tight supervision resources, it seems in
retrospect, that this addition to the project was inappropriate.
8.07     The establishment of a (US$S15 million) Special Account helped
expedite disbursements. The Bank displaying flexibility in its dealings
with the Borrower, and it willingness to consider the many requests for
amendments in the project documents, assisted the Borrower in the light
of rapid devaluation of the local currency, and expedited the completion
of the project.



- 14 -
8.08     As regards project supervision, the assignment of a Bank
resident engineer to Brazil in 1981 to supervise the DER-RO and feeder
road components of the project (in addition to other Bank-financed
feeder road projects) was a sound decision, given the implementing
problems which arose. Their resolution called for the presence of a
technical representative on a continuing basis and it undoubtedly
contributed to the successful completion of the project. Unfortunately,
with the departure of the Bank's reeident engineer in October 1985,
supervision from headquarters was barely adequate. In 1987, only one
supervision mission was sent out, followed by two missions in 1988. The
latter were mainly concerned with other Bank projects despite the
difficulties encountered in completing the DER-RO component which was
not finished until late 1988. However, a project completion mission was
sent to evaluate the overall status of the project in June 1990. A
strong recommendation in mid 1985 for better supervision, including the
appointment of a resident staff member to be based ln the north of
Brazil to oversee Bank-financed feeder road and agricultural projects,
was not acted upon. Staff inputs and mission data are included in
Part III, Tables 7A and 7B.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01     By 1980, Brazil had gained considerable experience in
implementing large Bank financed highway projects, and this was
effectively demonstrated by its performance in expeditiously carrying
out the highway and feeder road components of the project. Most of the
construction contracts were awarded before the loan was approved,
despite Bank warnings as to the risks entailed. Thus contracts were
completed well before schedule, considerably below estimated costs and
to satisfactory workmanship. Compliance with loan covenants was
generally satisfactory as indicated in Part III, Table 6.
9.02     A serious shortcoming on the part of the Borrower was the
failure of the GNER to control axle loading on the Northwest highway,
and to take the necessary steps to monitor, maintain and strengthen the
pavement as called for under sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement. During preparation of the project, it was difficult to
foresee the need for by-passes around settlements, however, as they
developed along the alignment, service roads were added to reduce
traffic congestion.
9.03     The most difficult executing problems, however, as on many
other Bank projects elsewhere, were encountered in implementing the
DER-RO institution building component (para 5.07). The need to
establish and train a new organization in a newly established state
posed considerable difficulties and long delays. The loan suspension
led to the loss of what had been accomplished up to that time. The
result of these difficulties, along with the frequent changes in staff
of DER-RO, was a three year delay in completing the component.



- 15 -
9.04     The files indicate that audits of the project accounts were
carried out to the satisfaction of the Bank. The maln problem noted
involved the requests for disbursements from the loan account for the
flood rehabilitation works which did not meet the established criteria
agreed on at the time the component was added to the project. These
were noted by Bank supervision staff, and corrective actions were taken
in the field to meet the agreed crlteria.
10. Proiect Relationshios
10.01    The Bank enjoyed good relations with the Federal and State
authorities which was reinforced by the presence of the Bank's resident
engineer in the country. This enabled problems to be identified and
resolved promptly. The frequent changes in personnel in DER-RO
handicapped the development of this state's maintenance capability and
is mainly attributed to the unstable political scene in Brazil. Also,
the closing of one of the project executing agents (Rondonia
Agricultural Development Company) and the transfer of its duties to
DER-RO exacerbated the problems of the latter agency.
11. Consultino Services
11.01    The local consultants involved in the design and supervision of
the highway and feeder road componentw performed well as indicated by
the completion of these works ahead of schedule, the physical overruns
which were limited to 12% despite the difficulties, and by the good
quality of the work. The performance of the TA consultant was hindered
by the many problems encountered (para. 5.08).  However, the component
was eventually completed.
12. Prolect Documentation and Data
12.01    The project was well documented in the apiraisal report, the
legal agreements and the correspondence files. The supervision reports
were particularly informative and helpful in revie;ing project
execution. Amendments to the project were careful..- documented. The
main criticisms are the lack of follow-up Bank supx-rision in 1988-89 to
check on the completion of the DER-RO component, the adequacy of
maintenance of the Northwest Highway and the feeder L *ads, and to
ascertain project costs and benefits.



- 16 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by Borrower) v
At        Evaluation of the Bank's performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project with special emphasis on lessons learned
that may be relevant for the future.
The purposes of the Project were to provide permanent
transport facilities along the Cuiab6 - Porto Velho Highway, to improve
the administrative capabilities of DER-RO and to provide a feeder road
system in the influence area. The loan became effective in April 1982,
the new highway was opened to traffic in September 1984 and since that
time has provided adequate service and accelerated development in the
influence area. There were considerable savings in loan funds because
construction cost overruns were small, which freed contingencies for
other uses, and because of inflation in the period between the
presentation and payment of contractors billings. However, these
achievements were marred by the fact that:
(a) after six years one third of the pavement is in bad
condition,
(b) a modification in the loan agreement to finance emergency
flood relief programmes in the Northeast with the surplus
loan funds was only partially successful, and
(c) USS 42 million representing 17.5% of the original loan
remained undisbursed and was cancelled.
These difficulties are not directly attributable to the Bank but the
following comments might help the Bank and Borrowers to avoid similar
problems in other projects.
(1) The original project for the highway dated back to 1974 and
envisaged a higher quality pavement for the new road than that adopted.
In the design review prior to the Appraisal of the Loan in 1981, there
was considerable discussion between the engineers of the Bank and the
DNER regarding the traffic projections and pavement design - the Bank
opinion which prevailed favored a two stage type of construction wherein
a lighter pavement would be strengthened at a later stage as the traffic
grew. During construction, in the interest of economy the DNER further
reduced the quality of the rolling service from triple surface treatment
1/   PART II of the report was prepared by DNER and was received by the
Bank in November 1990.



- 17 -
to double surface treatmentV on 86 % of the highway and narrowed the
shoulder with from 1.9 m to 1.5 m. In hindsight, the option for staged
construction was questionable given the cancellation of surplus loan
funds and the current need to rehabilitate large sections of this
highway. Future decisions on staged construction should be carefully
analyzed from the economic, technical and political standpoints bearing
in mind:
(a) the lack of continuity in Brazil from one administration
to another in the definition and maintenance of
priorities
(b) the chronic budget deficits which the highway subsector
faces making it difficult to divert scarce resources from
rehabilitation and improvement works on a major routes
with heavy traffic volumes to preventive overlays on
highways with less traffic
(c) the high cost of reconstructing a pavement through lack
of timely preventive maintenance, and
(d) the problem of mobilizing contractors and the transport
of construction materials, especially asphalt, in remote
areas.
(2) After the completion of the highway some US$60 millions
remained undisbursed. In 1985, the Bank accepted a request by the
Federal Government that the funds be made available for an emergency
flood relief programme covering critical works for federal state and
municipal highways (US$31.5 million), flood protection, storm drainage
and urban water supply (US$22 million) plus unallocated contingencies
(US$6.6 million). In addition, there was another US$7.5 million still
remaining in the Special Account.!/
In practice only US$8 million was actually disbursed on the
highway sector leaving US$23.5 million to be cancelled - mainly due to a
Government decision to limit the World Bank funds to federal highways
and a lack of counterpart funds.
Bank representatives visited the stricken areas but most
interruptions in traffic were rectified by the local authorities within
days of the flood. it was difficult to dimension emergency works
accurately and once the flood waters had subsided, to separate emergency
relief from long term corrective solutions over extended sections. The
2/   The bad performance of some contractors in the execution of triple
surface treatment also contributed to this decision.
3/ Consequently, in the revised Loan Agreement (October 1985), the
unallocated component was US$14.1 million.



- 18 -
DNER then had difficulties adhering to the Bank procedures on
procurement and obtaining sufficient budget.
The results of the Northeast Flood Relief Componenti/ for
highways casts doubts on the policy decision of the World Bank to become
involved in this type of programme which:
(a) is difficult to evaluate and tends to include a political
component
(b) leaves few works of a permanent nature to be amortized by
the next generation and
(c) discourages proper contingency planning by local
authorities - almost every other year some part of the
federal highway network is damaged by heavy rains and
flooding.
(3) The preparation and negotiation of a loan with the World Bank
demands a lot of time and effort by all parties. After considerable
effort to control costs (overrun limited to 12%), completion of highway
construction almost one year ahead of schedule, a reduction in technical
standards and a lower participation in real terms of Bank funds than
that originally envisaged due to inflationary problems and billing
mechanisms, it was frustrating not to be able to use the surplus funds
on other badly needed permanent highway works. We suggest that the
World Bank might in future projects of this type adopt a more flexible
position with regard to the use of surplus funds for permanent works, in
order to stimulate the interest of the executing agency in early
completion and construction economies.
B.        Evaluation of the Borrower's performance during the evolution
and implementation of the project with special emphasis on lessons
learned that may be relevant for the future.
(1) The Borrower was slow
(a) to request the cancellation of surplus funds and thereby
minimize commitment fees, and commitment fees, and
(b) formulate a coherent plan for their use.
Infact there was some divergence between the authorities involved on the
use of these funds. The DNER needed the money for permanent highway
works; SUMECO and State of Rondonia and Mato Grosso repeatedly suggested
using it on local roads; finally the Government and Bank agreed to
finance federal, state and municipal roads as well as urban
jf Reference in this context is also made to the extremely slow rate
of disbursements under the Rio Flood Reconstruction Programme (Loan
2975-BR).



- 19 -
infrastructure damaged by floods in the Northeast. However, funds were
also obtained from the Interamerican Bank for the flood relief programme
and Jt was decided to restrict World Bank finance for the highway
component (D.1 of the revised Loan Agreement) to federal highways.
The DNER then unsuccessfully tried to use the funds on major
road works in Maranhao and finally in 1987 the Ministry of the Interior
requested that the remaining balance be applied to drought relief in the
Northeast.
This sequence of events suggests that there was a lack of
coordination between all the executing agencies involved in this Loan.
The Government of Brazil has since concentrated loan negotiations and
overall monitoring with the Secretary of Planring (now incorporated with
the Ministry of the Economy) and the latest administrative reform of the
public sector is intended to eliminate duplication of responsibility and
authority between different organs. It is essential to clearly define
in all projects the specific entity charged with the overall monitoring
of the programme even though this entity may not have direct executive
responsibility over every component.
(2) There was insufficient time for the updating of the
engineering design before the sta.:t of construction. As a result, many
of the material sources indicated in the original 1974 design had been
used by the routine maintenance and it was necessary to change the
pavement structure of some links. Before bidding future works,
including the Sao Paulo - Curitiba Highway, the engineering design
should be completely updated and incorporate all the design changes
agreed between the DNER and financing agency and which should be binding
on all parties.
(3) The traffic counting and weighbridge programmes receive
inadequate budget allocations. The latest traffic information available
for Mato Grosso dates back to 1987 and the operating record of the tvO
weighbridges on the Cuiab& - Porto Velho Highway as described in item
(iii) "Northwest - Highway" is unsatisfactory.
Traffic volumes measure the demand on a particular highway and
should be prepared and published annually for all highway sections in
the federal network and clear pclicy guidelines drawn up on the
financing and operation of the weighbridge programme.
C.        Assessment of the effectiveness of the relationship between
the Bank and Borrower during the evolution and implementation of the
project.
At the technical level the relationship between the Ban.- Staff
and the DNER was very good.
The DNER being dependent on indirect sources of revenue has
traditionally not been fully aware of cost accounting and concepts of
cost effectiveness. It thus tends to measure its progress in terms of



- 20 -
physical achievements and targets, for example 1084 km of new
construction (the Cuiab& - Porto Velho Highway), 5000 km of
rehabilitation per year, 73 new weighbridges. The Bank tries to direct
more attention to institutional aspects through covenants in the loan
agreement on managerial efficiency, the collection of performance
parameters and cost accounting. The success in the implementation of
these covenants was patchy and in future more joint effort should be
made to the compliance with these covenants some of which are beyond the
control of the DNER.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
1. Related Bank Loans
LOAN          YEAR OF
LOAN TITLE                        PURPOSE                AMOUNT        APPROVAL        STATUS
Rondonia Health              Help intensify efforts      US$13 M         1981        Completed
Project (Loan 2061-BR)       to control malaria and
(Phase I)                   to expand and improve
primary and secondary
level health care.
Agricultural                 Help consolidate            US$67 H         1981        Completed
Development and              existing resettlement
Environmental                schemes in Rondonia.
Protection Project
(Loan 2060-BR)
(Phase I)
Hato Grosso Rural            Help stabilize rural        US$26.4 H       32         Completed
Development Project          population already
(Loan 2116-BR)              settled in Southwest
(Phase II)                  Hato Grosso.
New Settlements              Support colonization        US$65.2 M       1983        Ongoing
Project (Loan 2353-BR)       of unoccupied lands in
(Phase III)                 Rondonia.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
2. Proiect Timetable
DATE                  DATE                   DATE
ITEH                 PLANNED                REVISED                ACTUAL
-  Identification                                                               H May, 1979
-  Preparation                                                                  October 1979 21
- Regional Economic Mission                                                     October 1979
- Appraisal Missions              March 1980 3I                                 June, 1980 & March
1981
- Loan Negotiation                                                              September 23-30, 1980
- Board Approval                                                                December 1, 1981
- Loan Signature                                                                December 15, 1981
- Loan Effectiveness                                                            April 26, 1982
- Loan Closing                    June 30, 1986          December 31, 1986      September 30, 1988
- Project Completion              December 31, 1985      December 31, 1987      December 31, 1988 41
1/   Was carried out as part of an integrated'approach to the development of Northwestern Hato
Grosso-and the Territory of Rondonia.
21   Main issue was understanding specific requirements concerning the overall development
strategy for the project area formulated on the basis of the overall Northwest Development
Program.
31   As tentatively scheduled in project brief; no other dated planning dates were given in the                  I
Project Brief dated October 11, 1979.
41   Represents completion of DER-RO components; remaining components of project completed on
schedule.



- 23 -                        TA8LS 3
BRAZ2L
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
A. Loan DisbursstuentsU
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(Us$ milllon)
Bank FY 1987                     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    198
Appraisal Estimate                  36.0    97.0    158.0   215.0   240.0
Actual                                -     51.5    136.2   176.4   181.0   191.3  297.9
Actual as % of EstLmate                     53.1    86.2    82.0    75.4    79.7    8.5
Date of Final Disbursements
September 14, 1987
B. Project ImplementatLonW
BR364 - HLghway          Strengthening        FQoder Roads
_____________             of  DER-RO          _
Calendar   Appraisal   Actual  Appraisal  Actual   AppraLsal  Actual
Yoar     Estimate             Estimate             Estimate
1981           3.3       -
1982          21.4      19.0       35.8        -         30.7        7.9
1983          25.3      56.0       20.4       16.3       33.6       68.8
1984          27.5      25.0       11.8       30.3       35.7        3.0
1985          22.5       -         32.0        5.4        -         14.3
1986           -         -          -         22.7        -          -
1987           -         -          -         25.3        -          -
I/Us$34*0 oillion of surplus funds was cancelled as of June 30, 1987,
and the remainlng balance of US$8,059,047.69 was cancelled *ffectlve
October 14, 1989.
_/As a percentage of total expendltures



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HIGHWAY PROJECT I2062-BR)
Proiect Costs at A&Wraisal and Comoletion
(in US$ million)
Cost Estimate at Amoraisal " Y    Cost at ComoletionY
Bank
Local   Foreian   Total   Particination  Local    Loan       Total
I. Hiahway Construction
(a)  Civil Works and Construction
Supervision                        392.8   205.4      598.2      209.2        126.10   144.00   270.10
(b)  Equipment for Weighing Station
and to Monitor Pavement Behavior    0.4      0.1        0.5        0.3          0.00     0.01      0.01
(c)  Vehicles and Equipment               0.5      0.6       1.I        0.6          0.10     0.20      0.30
Sub-Total:                      393.7   206.1      599.8      210.1        126.20   144.21   270.41
II. Imorovement of DER-RO
(a)  Civil Works                          5.4      2.8       8.2         3.0         1.18     2.07      3.25        X
(b)  Equipment, Vehicles and Plant       14.2    14.0       28.2        10.1         4.41     5.42      9.83
(c)  Technical Assistance                 3.0  ..1            .1         1.8         1.89     2.01      3.90
Sun-Total:                       22.6    18.9       41.5       14.9          7.48     9.50    16.98
III.Feeder Roads
(a)  Civil Works                         30.7    15.0       45.7        15.0        18.10    16.20    34.30
IV. Northeast Flood Emeraencv
(a)  Roads                                -         -        -            -          4.11      6.30    10.41
(b)  Municipal Infrastructure             -       _          -            -         12.92    21.70    34.02
Sub-Total                          -         -        -            -         17.03    28.00    45.03
Total                         447.0   240.0      687.0      240.0        168.81   197.91   366.62
S.J   Includes prorated contingencies for physical (15% of civil works and supervision and 5  for all
others), and price escalation (about 23% of base cost and physical contingencies).  No costs were
given in local currency.
2J   Source:  SAR of October 29, 1981, page 22
3/   Source:  Total US$ cost at completion was derived from the actual monthly payments made in local
currency by the executing agency, converted in US$ through monthly average exchange rates. Local
US$ cost was derived from the total US$ cost by deducting reimbursements from the loan account.



- 25 -
TABLE 4B
BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN 2062-BR
DISBURSEMENT ALLOCATIONS
(in US$ million)
Appraisal'    Actual2
1.  Northwest Highway                          170.7         144.2
2.  DER-RO                                      12.1           9.5
3.  Feeder Roads                                14.8          16.2
4. Initial Deposit into Special
Account                                   15.0            -
5.  Unallocated                                 27.4            -
6.  Northeast Flood Rehabilitation                -           28.0
Works
TOTAL                        240.0         197.9
Cancelled                                   42.1
240.0
1/   Source:  Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement 2062-BR
2/   Source:  Memorandum Disbursements Division dated March 30, 1990
Note: No Cofinancing was involved in the project



*26                                                TABLE UA
BRAZIL
HORTUbEST REGION DEVELOPHENT PROGRA HIGNUAY PROJECT (2062-BR)
TRAFFIC ESTINATES
....... Highway Sections ............ ---.*-----1987 Traffic Coumts          -      A -   Appraisal-. --
Length            Nadius He"vy   Heavy         Projection   1980
From             To                Km   Car  Bus  Truck Truck  Trailor ADT           41t  OtaQ2,
zz==1u1wm   m  mm MM" amme  mmm    - ~  -a=   man   mm uumu
Porto Vetho      Ariqumes          18T  855   100    29?    344        155  1751       1632    407
AriqAemes        Jf Perwn 1n3   737l   97    248               314     152  1548       1550     506
Ji Paran         Rio Rondon        200   746    85    146      297     145  1419       1798     603
Rio Ronadn       Barecso Qusimedo  228   414    70    189      353     155  1181       1253     365
Baracao  usfmad  Porto Espiridso  334   285    61       98     286     160   690        924     230
Porto EspirIdao  Caceres           103   783   118    192    431       165  1689       2458     684
Caeeres          Carpinas           47   783   118    192    431       165  1689        840     486
Weighted Average                  1272   585    84    183      329     156  1336       1431     423
,,,,,,,,,.*.,.................................................... ......v...............
10 Approisal Report Table 8.7 (IntrapoLation for Year 1987)
42 Appraisal Report Page 38
Source DNER/Consultent



- 27 -                 TABLE 58
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
A. AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
(VehLcles per day)
a. Wlth Project
Light Medlum       Light Medium Heavy        Total
Year  Car   Car   BuS  Truck Truck Truck Trail- ADT
1985   274    124    ;    24   110   244  103   935
1989   333    151   6d    29   134   297   125  1136
1994   386    175   79    34    l55   344  145  1318
1999   406    184   83    36   163   361   153  1385
---------------------------------------------------------
b. Without Project
Light Medium     0 Light Medium Heavy        Total
Year Car   Car   Bus  Truck Truck Truck Traile ADT
on=== W^sW      in3=  uom= i=mui  mmuui mim mimm
1985   274    124   56    24   110   244   103   935
1989   274    124   56    24   110   244   103   935
1994   274    124   56    24   110   244   103   935
1999   274    124   56    24   110   244   103   935
---------------------------------------------------------
B. ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS'
(US$/1000KM)
a. wLth project
Light Medium       Light Medium Heavy
IRI  Year  Car   Car      Bus Truck Truck Truck Traile
==  SS==== =i=n=   i===   ==i- =-==m  am=---  - ---- mu
3  1985     77  129   414   262   328  499   914
6  1989     90  148   460   315   406  602  1076
5.5  1994     88  145   452   306   392   584  1047
7  1999     96  155   476   336   436  641  1136
----------------------------------------------------------
b. without project
Light Medium       Light  Medium Heavy
IRI Year Car   Car        Bus Truck Truck Truck Traile
16  1985    157  235   652   588   829  1127  1856
16  1989    157  235   652   588   829  1127  1856
16  1994    157  235   652   588   829  1127  1856
16  1999    157  235   652   588   829  1127  1856
Sources:----------------and---Mission-------e--t--mates---
Sources: DNER and MisoLon estLmates



BRAZIL
IEISt? BEOU DEVEUfMPW  PR G           E KIOWa PROJECT
Economic Anaysis
(in thousands of 1989 US)
Agicultural                                                                                                    lacrlmna
oduction                                              Road Investment. 21                                   Agricltaaral                        Vhile  Operatig Coste
Cost 1,                                                                                                     Value Added 41
_  ..................................................................................................,,,------,,,,,------,______________________---------------------------................___ 
hain    Allsn-  Feder                totcl                                                                              VW eavzs
Year   landonis  Hato Croeso    Total          WV           Road   ta.oras   Roadc    Total  in 8s$ of  a"    7          adcut. Nsto Croeo    TotW             WV        t     C   Uongdc       of
(0122)       Ivest.  Invst.  Invest.  Invest.  1989 31  (0122)            (total)    Unren.)                    WI)          SavIgs Traffic  (@122)
- -- -- - --  -- -- - - -_--   .....   -- -- -_- - --   -- -- -- - --  -- -_- - --  -- _-- - --  -_- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- - - -_--  .... .  - -_- - - -_____
1982       18991        2029        21020       21020        70360     4100    11200    88660   123950    123950           -2520         .673       -3193       -3193                              0
1983       11046        3979        13025       13415      207360      6900     9000   223260   331318    295820             639         -730         -91          -a2 
198'.      17910        2992        20902       16663       s2570      9600     6300   10S470   163898    130639            4512         -44         38          3so2                              0
1983       11998        3S69        15566       11080          430     88eo      800    10030    14995      10673           3934          62         489         3435       143070   12919     9t
1986        9537        2941        12478        7930          430      600      300      1330     1681      1068           9764         3224       129          8254       142so   12894    819n
1987        9267        2332        11598        6381          430      600       300     1330     1337       672           20680        4813       25493        14463      142500   171       13013
198U        8549        6500        15049        7624          430      600      300      1330     1414       716          28947         5793       34740         7600      137640   1242      82989
1989       23740        1237        24978       11299          430      600      300      1330     1330       602          33107         6487       39S94        11910      131970   119169    339
1990        1785        1238         3022        1221          430      600      300      1330     1330       537          33342         6630       39973        16144      124030  Alto"    4233
1991        1785        1237         3022        1090          430      600      300      1330     1330       480           3368         7431       43133        13534     213200   10402    :37313
1992        1785        1237         3022         973        35120      600      300    36020    36020      11597          34163         7067       48231        13282      15710   142493    45879
1993        1783        1237         3022         869          870      600      300      1770     1770       509          31682         3038       36120        10536      13350   14013      4043
1994        2902        1237         4140        1063          870      600      300      1770     1770       454           31295        5922       37217        9553       153680   183    3J20
195         1788         1238        3022         693          870      600      300      1770     1770       406           30147        8981       37128         8509      14934    13035    309
1996        1785         1258        3022         618          870      600      300      1770     1770       362           27868         285       35313         7193      143180   L31093    26U
8197        178          1238        3022         S52          870      600      300      1770     1770       323          24163         7419       31842         3781      140620   126       2318
1998        1785         1238        3023         493          870      600      300      1770     1770       289           27233        7710       3493          8700      133840   122564    2908
1999        1785        1237         3022         440          870      600      300      1770     1770       258          35816         n8         43584         6348      124820   11272      18411
2000        l785         1237        3022         393          870      600       300     1170     1770       230           37672        T1         45471         5913      113820   102719    133
2001        2923         1238        4161         483          870      600       300     1770     1770       206           36324        78         44131         3124      102810    92837    101M
TOrALS                                             104499                                                     580011                                               171178                         now
Nlotes s Il  Includes off-farm agricultural production coats                                                                                                                                                     I
21  Ecoumic "osts (in current 05$) of roed inustsnts were estimated as 802 of the financial coats.
hch were derived from montlLy paysents made la local currency, converted at the average erchengs rate
for the mouth in which the corrospondin  works wore actually made.
31 Al coate in US$ of 1989 deflated with Kam  cturilg Unit Value (O) Index
41 Net of ca_-form coetc
"P  ad  rate of return *stiuates
Costs      Benefits       flow
1982      144970       -3193      -148162
1983      346343         -91      -346434
1984      184800        3866      -180934
1985       30561      134088       103827
1986       14159      141981       127822
1987       13135      154170       141035
1988       16463      159029       142566
1989       26308      158763       132456
1990        4352      151972       147619
1991        4352      147158       142806
1992       39042      183744       144702
1993        4792      177143       172660
1994        8910      175990       170060
1995        4792      172163       167370
1996        4792      166250       161458
1997        4792      158622       153830
1998        4793      157606       152813
1999        4792      156305       151513
2000        4792      148250       143458
2001        5931      136969       131038
mP  0122      68U310       861246
81C             I
ERR        16.312
------------_-----------__--------------_--



-29 -                     TABLE 6
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN 2062-BR
Status of Loan Covenants
Loan/Project
greement Art. No.            Covenant                               Status
2.02b            Open a Special Account                Done on July 2, 1982.
3.Olb            Provide appropriate budgetary         For BNDE and DER/RO partially
allocations to each executing        complied with.
agency- for carrying out the
project.
3.04             DNER to establish, by March 31,       Accomplish before March 31,
1982 a coordinating group to         1982.
supervise execution of the
highway.
3.06             DNER to establish and maintain a    DNER opened a revolving fund
project revolving fund and make      account on July 30, 1982 and
an initial deposit of US$12          deposited in it US$12
million.                             million.
3.07             DNER to contribute about US$4.6       Complied with.
million to BNDE feeder roads
program and to assist BNDE in
carrying out the program.
4.01             DNER and FUNAI to enter into          Provisions, requested by
appropriate arrangements to          FUNAI, were included in
protect the Amerindians.             construction and supervision
contracts.
4.02 and Supple-       The Borrower to carry out the         Completed.  Works were
mental Letter          reconstruction Cuiaba-Campinas        contracted with the Army.
No. 4                  and Ariquemes-Porto Velho.



- 30 -                    TABLE 6
Page 2 of 3
Loan/Project
Aareement Art. No.               Covenant                             Status
4.03             DNER to ensure compliance with        Two permanent weighing
liuitations of size and weight of   stations have been installed.
vehicles.                            DNER has repeatedly been
requested to take action to
control overloading on all
sections of the road.
4.04(a)          Maintenance of roads (see             Ongoing activity.  Level of
Supplemental Letter No. 1).          maintenance requires review
(Bank telex to DNER of May
28, 1986).
4.05             Auditing of DNER accounts (see        Audit Report covering
Supplemental Letter).                expenditures up to April 1986
have been received.
4.08             Auditing of projeet account and       Audit Reports covering
revolving fund (see Supplemental    expenditures up to April 1986
Letter).                             have been received.
4.09             Auditing of the special account       Special account opened in
(see Supplemental Letter).           July 1982.  Auditing reports
covering activities up to
April 1986 have been
received.
4.10             Provision of adequate funds for       Complied with.
the carrying out of the project.
Proiect Agreement
(State of Rondonia)
2.02
Rondonia enter into contractual      Done.
arrangements with BNDE.
2.03             Rondonia to contract a consulting   Done.
firm for technical assistance and
training.
2.04a(i)         Rondonia to establish by 09/30/82   Done.
a task group (Senior Engineer,
Training Advisor, Municipal
Engineer).



- 31-                     TALZ 6
Page 3 of 3
Loan/Project
Agreement Art. No.               Covenant                                Status
2.04a(ii)        Rondonia to establish by 09/30182   Done.
a training unit with at least 5
instructors.
2.05             Rondonia through DER-Ro maintain    Satisfactory.
the highway network and assist
the municipalities in maintaining
the municipal road network.
2.06             Rondonia to prepare by 6/30/82 a    Done.
plan of action for recruiting
adequate personnel for DER-RO.
2.07(a)          Rondonia to establish by 1/1/83       Has been implemented with
adequate accounting procedures       some delay.
with respect to DER-RO.
2.07(b)          Financial statement of DER-RO be    Audit reports covering
audited starting with 1983 Fiscal   expenditures up to April 1986
Year, and to supply Bank Audit       have been received.
Reports.
Source: Supervision Report dated 10/16/67



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
A. Staff Inputs
(staff-weeks)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   Total
Preparation           80.8                                                                               80.8
Appraisal                    19.1                                                                        19.1
Negotiationsv'
Supervision                          24.8   21.3   26.2   12.0   10.4    8.7    6.5    1.6    0.5   112.0
TOTAL               80.8   19.1   24.8   21.3   26.2   12.0   10.4    8.7    6.5    1.6    0.5   211.9
1/   Records do not identify time spent on negotiations.
Source: Divisional Records.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2062-BR)
B.  Missions
Stage of              Month/   No. of   staff-weeks  Specialization                       Types of
Project Cycle           Year    Persons   in Field    Represented1    Date of Report   Problems 61
Through Appraisal           8/79        4         4           2HE. 2EC          10/11/79 V
Preparation 1
Preparation 2            11/79        3         6           2HE, EC             N/A
Preparation 3             1/80        4         8           2HE, 2C           3/26/80
Preparation 4             3/80        3         4          HE, EC, C          4128180
Appraisal 1               4/80        3         6          HE, EC, C           6/30180 #
Post-Appraisal           10/80        2         5             2HE             1108/81
Appraisal 2               1/81        3        10          HE, EC, FA          3/09181 M
Post-Appraisal            5/81        4         9           3HE, EC           5/29/81
Post-Appraisal            7/81        2         2            HE, C
Supervision
Supervision 1            12/81        1        0.5             TS             2118/82
Supervision 2 v           7/82        1         1              HE             1016182       Mgmt. of DER-RO      w
Supervision 3 S           3/82        2         2              HE             3116/83                *
Supervision 4             5/83        1         1               *             6121/83
Supervision 5 '          10/83        3         5           2HE, EC           11130/83
Supervision 6 v           8/84       3          4             2HE             9/21/84
Supervision 7V            5/85       3          7           2HE, EC           6113/85       Mgmt. of DER-BO
Supervision 8 V          10/85        3         7             2HE            11126185       Delays
Supervision 9             3/86        3         3             2HE             5129/86       Completing
Supervision 10           12/86        1         1              HE             12119/86      DER-RO Component
Supervision 11            9/87        1         2              HE             10116/87
Supervision 12            2188       2          2              HE               N/A
Supervision 13            4188       2          2              HE               N/A
Supervision 14            6/90       2          1              HE,C           7/  /90
1/   HE - Highway Engineer, EC - Economist, C - Consultants, TS - Training Specialist
2/   Project Brief
3/   Issues Paper
4/   Funding incorporated in SAR                                                                              t
5/   Project Supervision was carried out by HQ engineer who supervised the highway component and              W
Bank's resident highway engineer in Brazil who supervised the remaining components.  The latter          -
was assigned to Brazil from October 1981 to October 1985 and spent an estimated 22 man weeks on          W
the project in addition to the time noted above.
61   Overall project performance was rated 1 up to supervision report no. 6, and 2 thereafter.



- 34 -
Ann
Page 1 2t 14
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
EVALUATION OVERVIEW
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          This overview of the Northwest Development Program (POLONOROBSTE)
is based on the Project Completion Reports on the Northwest Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project (Loan 2060-BR) and the
Northwest Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR), as well as other studies and Bank
documents. Its scope is limited because a number of other projects, which
also supported the Program, are not dealt with. These include the Northwest
Health Project (Loan 2061-BR) and the Nato Grosso Rural Development Project
(Loan 2116-BR), which have been evaluated in separate Completion Reports, and
the New Settlement Project (Loan 2353-BR), which is not yet completed. There
were also other sectoral loans to Brazil with components in the Region.
2.          The basic purpose of the Program was to achieve the sound,
sustainable economic and social development of the Northwest Region, with a
particular emphasis on its rural areas. The specific objectives of the
Program and how well they were achieved, is discussed in Section II. Section
III discusses the sufficiency of these objectives to meet the basic purpose of
the Program. Section IV offers broad conclusions on the impact of the Program
on the Region, and Section V outlines lessons for the future.
II.   SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
3.          Before the Program was initiated in the early 1980's, there had
already been extensive migration to the Northwest Region. Much of the
resultant increase in population could not be absorbed in official settlement
schemes and the Region was faced with mounting socic-economic problems,
uncontrolled deforestation and serious threats to the hea'th and culture of
the Amerindian population. To address these problems and to assure the sound
development of the Region, the Program had a number of specific objectives
designed to increase mobility (discussed in Section A), encourage orderly land
settlement and agricultural production (Section B), protect the environment
(Section C), promote health and education (Section D) and protect the
Amerindian population (Section E). Progress in achieving these objectives was
to be carefully monitored and evaluated (Section F).
A.    Increased Mobility
4.          More than 50% of the Program costs of about US$1.6 billion (in
1981 prices) were for road construction to facilitate the movement of people
into the Region and of goods to, from and within the Region, particularly from



- 35 -
Annex
Page 2 of 14
farms to markets. The movement of people to the RegLon was part of a long-
standing Government effort to encourage mLgration to frontLer areas to
allevlate serlous unemployment and poverty in other parts of Brazll, and to
settle the Amazon region for strategio reasons.
5.          The populatLon of Rond8nla, the major focus of the Program, had
been Lncreasing rapidly from about 110,000 to 490,000 between 1970 and 1980,
even before all-weather transport became avallable. Wlth the pavlng of the
Culab&-Porto Velho road and lts completion ln 1984 under the Program, one year
ahead of schedule, the average dally trafflc on the road more than trLpled
from about 438 vehLcles in 1980 to over 1,400 vehlcles in 1987. The road
reduced transport costs by 30% to 60% for dlfferent types of vehicles and made
transport posslble the entire year. Annual migratlon into RondOnia increased
rapldly from about 60,000 in 1981-1982 to more than 150,000 in 1984-1986. As
a result, Rond8nla's population nearly trlpled durlng the 1980's, reaching
about 1.4 million ln 1989.
6.          The constructlon and improvement of feeder and access roads was
fully completed in 1986, after some lnltial delays, and this part of the
Program also achieved its main objective of givlng settlers access to markets
and services. However, as discussed in para. 15, some access roads were bullt
in areas later determined to be unsuitable for agriculture, a few were located
too close to Amerindian reserves and therefore contributed to the problems of
invasions, and designs did not always take adequate account of the land
contours and hydrographic features of the settlement areas.
7.          The Northwest Highway Project also intended to strengthen the
State Highway Department but this component was implemented less successfully.
As a result, in 1987 the Department was maintaining less than half the roads
for which it was responsible. Moreover, by 1990 one-third of the pavement of
the main highway was in poor condition and some short sections had reverted to
a gravel surface and was receiving emergency repaiLsr its maintenance was the
responsibility of the Federal Highway Department. Axle load restrictions were
not enforced and the weigh stations financed under the project have not been
operational.
B.    Land Settlement and Aariculture Production
8.          The second largest component of the Program, including three
agricultural projects, and accounting for about 40% of total costs, was to
encourage the settlement of farmers in areas where sustained agricultural
production was possible and to increase agricultural productivity. In the
first of these three projects, the Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project (Loan 2060-BR), which accounted for about 13% of total
Program costs, the emphasis was on the consolidation of existing settlements
in an area with the best soils in Rond8nia, although soil surveys were
included to prepare for expansion of settlements to other areas under another
project. The strategy was to promote a move from shifting cultivation of
annual crops to the production of environmentally more suitable and
economically more profitable perennial tree crops. At the same time,
settlement in unsuitable areas and in those which had not yet been



- 36 -
Annex
Page 3 of 14
sufficiently studied, was to be discouraged, and an excessive concentration of
land ownership was to be prevented. The following observations refer
exclusively to the results of Loan 2060-BR.
9.          It is now estimated that the Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project provided individual extension services at
farm level to about 11,330 farm families, compared to 18,200 expected at
appraisal. The decrease is explained by a slower expansicn of extension
services, especially in the early years (para. 10), the limited availability
of credit (para. 12), the reduction in rural centers (para. 30), and a gradual
change in the strategy of the extension service from individual to group
assistance techniques. As a result of the latter, about 3,300 additional
farmers were contacted under a group assistance scheme, bringing the total of
assisted farmers to about 14,360, or about 80% of the original target. Also,
training courses on specific subjects, such as perennial crop planting, were
offered to 13,500 farmers. The incremental area cultivated of about 72,400
ha. is almost the same as expected at appraisal. As a result, the average
farmer increased the area cropped by 6.5 ha., instead of 4 ha. estimated in
the SAR.
10.         Most extension staff received pre-service traLning, but only 84
participated in specialized in-service courses; this was considerably lower
than the original target of 155. The extension service operated under
difficult conditions, such as insufficient operating funds, lack of farm
credit and limited experience of most agents with the climate and agronomic
conditions of the project area. Nevertheless, it provided valuable advice on
crop diversification and rotation, efforts to retain forest reserves at the
farm level, developing community organizations, simplified storage and
processing methods, etc. These activities are only now beginning to take hold
among settlers but should yield important wider agricultural and environmental
benefits in the future.
11.         The value of the annual incremental production under the project
was initially estimated at US$144 million at full development but is now
expected to reach only $71 million. The major reasons are the sharp declines
of prices for coffee and cocoa, serious shortages of agricultural credit until
the last 3 years of the Program, and lower yields for most commoditLes,
reflecting primarily less intensive use of fertilizer and other Lnputs. For
similar reasons, incremental employment generation, which had been estimated
in the SAR at the equivalent of about 20,700 labor-years, is now expected to
reach only 14,800 labor-years.
12.         Funds for on-farm credit were not Lncluded in the Project because
interest rates were highly subsidized, but the Government had given assurances
in the Loan Agreement that adequate credit would be available from existing
sources. However, virtually no credit was made available to the project
beneficiaries because of Brazil's tight financial situation. This interfered
particularly wLth the production of perennLal crops for which farmers must
wait several years before receiving any income. To allevLate the credit
restraint, a new program of credit-in-kind was initiated, beginning with the
1985/6 crop year, providing seedlings primarily for coffee and rubber, and



- 37 -
Annex
Page 4 of 14
seeds for beans, corn and rice. The credit was essential for the rapid
expansion of the area for coffee and bean cultivation.
13.         The incomes of the beneficiaries did not rise as much as had been
estimated. At appraisal, the average annual income of participating farm
families was expected to increase from about US$SSO to US$11,900, but it iL
now estimated that incomes will average only about US$6,600, which is still a
substantial increase. The financial rates of return are as high as
anticipated and the economic rate of return, while somewhat lower, is still a
satisfactory 16%. Lower prices and yields have been offset at least in part
by greater production of some crops and lower expenditures for on-farm
investments and inputs. For the Program as a whole (including the roads), the
economic rate of return is also estimated at 16% compared to a SAR estimate of
over S0%, with lower cost more than offset by lower agricultural production.
While the method of re-calculat'.ng the economic rate of return is comparable
to that in the SAR, it. significance is limited by the fact that it does not
allow for important external costs (e.g., deforestation) and benefits
(institution-building) which cannot be quantified. It should also be
emphasized that the relatively good rate of return was possible only because
this particular project was located in the best soils of central Rond8nia;
similar results could not be obtained in other, agronomically more marginal,
parts of the POLONOROESTE Program area.
14.         The Program improved the pattern of land ownership.  Titles to
land were provided to nearly 19,800 farmers occupying about 2.2 million ha.
While this is more than the number of direct project beneficiaries, it is only
one third of the 60,000 farm families in the settlement schemes, all of which
were to receive title under the Project. However, as a result of the project,
the proportion of farm owners, in Rond8nia, increased from 40% to 57% of all
farm establishments between 1980 and 1985 while the proportion of squatters
declined from 51% to 28%.
15.         The project also financed soil surveys north of the project area
in preparation for possible new settlements under another POLONOROESTE
project. Because of the high immigration, the Government and the Bank agreed
to start settlement under Loan 2353-BR (New Settlements Project) before the
surveys were completed. Unfortunately, much of the area proved to have poor
soil and before new settlement could be prevented, three settlement schemes
with rural service centers and feeder roads had already been constructed in
areas where &gricultural production was not sustainable.
16.         The number of cattle in the project area increased rapidly from
126,000 in 1981 to 783,000 in 1988. However, the growth of the cattle herd in
the project area slowed down during the second half of that period as the
mixed farming model promoted by the project and emphasizing perennial crops,
took hold, while the increase accelerated outside the project area. For the
most part, livestock in the project area serves as a complement to the farm
activities of small farmers, supplementing their income and reducing their
risks. It does not have the damaging impact of extensive ranching involving
major deforestation, land speculation and absentee ownership. as occurred
elsewhere in other frontier areas of Brazil.



- 38 -
Amnex
Page 5 of 14
17.         The performance of agricultural production in the project area has
been good so far in that farmers who received technical aesistance and who had
savings or were able to obtain credit, introduced perennial crops and
developed sustainable production systems. But many were not able to make this
transition and therefore continued shifting cultivation and deforestation.
The long-term viability of the agricultural development of sensitive frontier
lands will depend on institutional, financial and technical factore. The
agricultural institutions which the project helped develop, though still weak,
can be sustained with the additional resources which have become available
from marketing and export taxes. For individual farmers, financial
sustainability is only possil-le on the basis of intercropping of perennial
crops and agro-forestry.
18.         An important limitation of the settlement consolidation component
is that its size was insufficient to meet the needs of the project area. It
planned for the assistance to 18,200 settler families involving some 87,000
people, during a period when Rondonias population increased by more than a
million. Such growth imposed demands on land, infrastructure and inatitutions
far beyond the scope of the Project.
C.    Environmental Protection
19.         A third major objective of the Program war to protect the
environment by strengthening the capability to control deforestation; studying
the promotion of sustainable forestry operations in suitable areas;
establishing natural reserves and ecological stations for biodiversity
preservation; and undertaking ecological research. The Northwest Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project was intended to addrees the
environmental issues for the entire Program.
20.         These activities were estimated to cost about US$21 million (in
1981 prices), accounting for about 1.4% of total Program costs. The Bank
supported project originally allocated US$15.8 million for environmental
protection but the amount was increased to US$36.7 million in the later years
of the project.
21.         Deforestation in Rondfnia had accelerated rapidly in the late
1970's. By 1975, about 0.5% of the forest was cleared, by 1980 it was more
than 3%, by 1983 nearly 6% and by 1988 the estimates ranged between 13% and
24% according to different sources. Most of the deforestation was the result
of clearing along the main highway and feeder roads. The number of registered
logging operations in Rond8nia increased from 400 in 1982 to 1,150 in 1907,
and the volume of processed lumber from 1.4 to 4.2 million m3. Such rapid
deforestation had, in fact, been encouraged by the government's broad policies
to develop the Amazon region, including road construction, colonization
schemes, fiscal incentives and subsidized credit, which created high, though
short-lived, private profits at substantial public costs.
22.         To address this problem, two national forests were established but
the plans for their protection and development were not implemented because of
lack of funds and staff. While the number of for'stry control posts



- 39 -
AnnesA
Page 6 of 14
constructed exceeded the original program, their effectiveness was very
limlted because the responslble Federal agency, Brazillan Forestry Development
Institute (IBDF), was weak and had insufflcient resources, the large migration
to RondOnia and the rapid development of local wood industries. As a result,
deforestation went virtually unchecked for much of the project period. In
recent years, a series of corrective measures were taken to improve forestry
control, including higher taxes on forest exploration, greater fines on
illegal exploration, the establlshment of a Forestry Military Police to
strengthen enforcement and of a State Forest Instltute to provlde forest
extension services, and an Emergency Program was initiated to control
deforestation and burning. These efforts have begun to reduce the rate of
deforestation and burnlng, according to the responsible government agencies,
and have laid the basli for posslble improvements ln the future.
23.         The project dld not plan for publlc reforestation, but relled
instead on a strategy of smallholder lntercropplng of perennlal crops and
agro-forestry development on private lots. Of the two planned . :edling
statlons to promote perennlal tree crops and forestry development, only one
was completed, and credit constraints limited the number of settlers who could
implement such farmlng systems (paras. 12, 17). Little is known about the
distributlon, utilization and survival of forest seedllngs produced, but they
evidently had no slgnlflcant impact on counteractlng deforestation.
24.         Several Biological Reserves were establlshed and the National Park
of Pacaas Novos was strengthened under the project. Because of a shortage of
resources of the responsible agencies, maintenance of the reserves is
precarious and policing is inadequate to prevent frequent invasions by
settlers, loggers and miners. Four ecological stations were built and
equipped and a State Environment Agency (SEMARO) was established in 1986 to
control pollution and initlate environmental education. only 55% of the funds
for ecologlcal stations were spent because of instltutlonal weaknesses and
lack of counterpart funds.
25.         The project included US$7 milllon for ecologlcal research, but
only US$4 million were spent. About 20 research projects were undertaken,
involving 179 researchers from major Brazilian institutions, and more than 200
sclentific papers were published. While much of the work reflected very good
diagnostic capabilities of the researchers, a lack of policy focus and dlrect
connectlon with project imp'ementation greatly reduced its impact on project
results. The implementation of the environmental protectlon component was
weak and long delayed. However, as awareness of the seriousness of the
problems and the commltment to address them grew, the funds for environmental
protectlon were more than doubled, as lndicated in para. 20.
26.         The most serlous difficulty in achievlng the environmental
objectives was the institutlonal weaknesses of the two key agencies - IBDF and
the Special National Secretarlat for the Environment (SEMA). Stafflng with
appropriate personnel was exceedingly difficult with low salaries, reduced
even further by delays in paymerts during periods of high inflation. As a
result, most IBDF employees in RondOnia resigned at different times during
project implementation, so that many accomplishments were threatened or even



- 40 -
Annex
Page 7 of 14
wiped out. Behlnd these difficulties were not only the serious budgetary
problems of the Government, but an ambiguous commitment to the environmental
objectives. However, the lack of effectiveness of IBDF led to the creation of?
a State Forestry Institute in 1987, which opened local offices in many parts
of the project area. It has established a permit procedure for clearing and
burning forests which, if pursued consistently, would provlde a valuable
instrument for controlling forest destruction, but its present effectiveness
cannot yet be evaluated since the necessary data are not being collected.
27.         The project did not anticlpate adequately the very large increase
in migration and the massive impact this would inevitably have on the
environment.  As a result, the scope of environmental measures was too small
to meet the scale of environmental problems resulting form the rapid increase
in population. On the other hand, the project has laid tho institutional and
research basis which would permlt in the future a greatly expanded effort if
supported by the necessary political commitment. But given the serious
financial constraints of the State and Federal Governments, the long-run
sustainability of this effort remains uncertain.
D.    Social Infrastructure and Urban Development1
28.         The Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project
included US$5.2 million for education. The number of school places was too be
increased from 27,000 to 67,000. In addition, 1,900 new teachers were to be
employed and 840 teachers were to be trained. The project as implemented
increased the number of school places by 24,300, instead of 40,000, and only
470 new teachers were employed. The quality of education was generally low.
The training of teachers and the provision of text-books and teaching aids was
deficient primarily because of a shortage of funds.
29.         The project also included funds for 39 service centers (NUAR) to
provide support to groups of farms, including public water systems,
electricity supply, schools, administrative offices, health posts, crop drying
and storage units, etc. These NUARs were seen as the forerunners of future
towns, under a strategy to encourage a more even development of urban areas in
Rondonia and avoid overcongestion of Porto Velho and the other main cities.
The number of NUARs was later reduced to 20, mostly in areas where existing
small towns were already developing rapidly, and in a few cases because
settlement was progressing too slowly to justify construction of a center.
Most of the NUARs have since developed into towns and several into the
capitals of new municipalities.
I Two of the POLONOROESTE projects not dealt with in this assessment (para.
1) also had social infrastructure component., and the third was a freestanding
health project for the Program area.  The results of these more significant
social investments are not dealt with in thir analysis.



- 41 -
Page 8 of 14
E.    Protection of Amerindian population
30.         The Program recognlzed that the rapld development of the Region
would place LncreasLng pressures on the local Amerlndian communLtLes. In
partlcilar, there would be increased competLtLon for land traditLonally hold
by Amorindians, they would be exposed to contagLous diseases and thelr culture
would be threatened. The SAR regarded thLi as a critical lssue "to be
addressed and satlsfactorlly resolved prlor to the further lmplementatlon of
the proposed Northwest Program" (Annex 8, para. 11). The Federal Government
agreed to lmplement a SpecLal Project to protect AmerLndLans, involvLng land
demarcation and regularLzatLon, health and education servLces and economic
development. The costs of thls project (US$26.1 millLon) were not lncluded in
the costs of the Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
Project, because the Government did not wish the Bank to partLcLpate ln its
financLng, but lts lmplementatlon was a condltion ln the Loan Agreement.
31.         Protection of indlgenous lands was the cornerstone of the Speclal
Project. At appraisal, the Special Project sought to demarcate 3,900 kms of
Amerlndlan reserve boundaries covering a total of 3.1 million ha. Durlng
project implementatLon, additional areas were Ldentified and the Government
extended demarcation activities to these new areas. As a result some 9,300
kms of AmerLndian reserves were actually demarcated, covering about 9.0
milllon ha of reserves. The share of the Amerindian population living in
demarcated reserves in the POLONOROESTE Program area increased from only about
18% ln 1980 to 85% in 1989. However, in January 1990, the Government revoked
the earlier demarcatton of one of the largest Amerindian areas and the total
Amerindian population living in demarcated areas is now about 7,500 Indians or
78% of the total.
32.         The project greatly accelerated the pace of demarcation,
especlally after the Bank suspended disbursements ln 1985 because of
insufficient progress. More land was demarcated after 1985 than in the entire
history of Brazil before then. However the protection of the Reserves against
illegal logging, mining and squatters has been difficult given the size of the
area, the profitability of these operations and the political support they
receive, the collusion of loggers and miners with Indian leaders, and the
limited capacLcy of the Government to fully enforce the law against
exploitation. There are no accurate data on the extent of such invasions, but
they are frequent and involve perhaps 5% of the Indian lands.
33.         To strengthen the health services for the Amerindians, 38
lnfirmaries and health posts and 51 wells were built, also exceeding original
targets, and health professionals and workers were recruited. However, living
conditLons for the staff were poor, many had little training, the turnover was
high, medical supplies were frequently not available and equipment was not
maintained, so that local medical services became increasingly limited. In
time, they became focused on a few central facilities at regional
headquarters, but there, too, the quality of medical care declined due to lack
of trained personnel, facilities and medicine. The level of diseases such as
tuberculosis, malaria, measles, influenza and intestinal parasites among the
Indians is very high. Acculturative influences such as the introduction of



- 42 -
Annex
Page 9 of 14
powdered milk, and environmental pressures such as deforestation and the
consequent reduction of wild game, have adversely affected thelr dLet and
nutrltlon. Nevertheless by the late 198C's, the high mortality rate during
the initial contact period had been reduced and the birthrate and the
population were increasing.
34.         Thirty-two schools were built on the Reserves but the teachers had
inadequate training and. inappropriate textbooks, and the poor living
conditions drove them away. By 1988, virtually the only schools on the
Reserves were operated by missionaries.
37. To encourage development, the project provided equipment and supplies
for large communal gardens. A few of these were planted and some flour and
bananas were sold but in general the Indians refused to work communally,
output was low, the equipment was not used and most gardens were abandoned
after a short time. A number of trading posts were established but almost all
of them closed down quickly since the Indians had no commercial experience.
F.    Monitorino and Evaluation
35.         Given the grsat uncertainties surrounding the project, major
emphasis was placed on establishing a monitoring and evaluation system which
would provide timely information on the implementation and impact of the
project, and thus permit prompt corrective action. Because of conflicts
between the responsible consultant FIPE (The Institute for Economic Research
of the University of S&o Paulo) and the Program management, monitoring and
evaluation did not play the important role envisaged, though it was crucial in
calling attention to the gravity of the Amerindian protection problem and
environmental and health risks. The use of external consultants for
monitoring and evaluation was effectively suspended in 1987, in favor of the
monitoring system developed by POLONOROESTE's own staff. Information on the
result of the project is still quite limited, reflecting more the emphasis of
the system on compliance with physical and financial targets than on basic
project impact.
III. SUFFICIENCY OF OBJECTIVES
36.         Even if the four major objectives of the Program had been
achieved, this would not have been sufficient to assure the sound development
of the Northwest Region because two important problem areas were not addressed
- mining and urban development.
A.    Minina
37.         The improvements in transport accelerated the development of
mining in Rond8nia, where between 100,000 and 200,000 people are estimated to
be involved in gold and casserito prospecting. Casserite shipments are
estimated at 48,000 tons in 1989 with a market value of nearly US$200 million.
The value of gold mined is not known but some researchers place it as high as
US$1 billion per year.



- 43 -
Annex
Page 10 of 14
38.         The potential value of mining activities and the extent to which
they would develop over the project period were not foreseen by the Bank and
the Government at the appraisal stage, and hence adequate regulation and
enforcement mechanisms were not built into the design of the POLONOROESTE
Program. Mining has led to serious environmental degradation, especially
water pollution and deforestation. Placer mining and river dredge. have
contaminated the rivers with large amounts of mercury and discarded crankcase
oil. SEMARO, which was supported with Bank funds, has initiated efforts to
control pollution and provide environmental education, but it is still too
weak for adequate inspection and enforcement.
B.    Urban Development
39.         The Program also underestimated what would be an extremely rapid
rate of urbanization of Rondonia, because of incorrect assumptions about the
likely pace of migration to the State. The urban population had already
increased rapidly between 1970 and 1980 from about 60,000 to nearly 230,000
and has since grown to about 700,000. The mining operations require extensive
commercial and service activities for support and have contributed to rapid
urbanization, so that by 1990 about 45 percent of the population of Rond8nia
lived in urban areas. The NUAR construction program (para. 30), while
helpful, did not provide an adequate response. Many of the other new towns
and the largest c,;. ies in Rond8nia lack adequate infrastructure, such as water
supply and sewage disposal, essential public services, including public
health, and urban housing conditions are frequently poor. Industrial
pollution from saw mills and the processing of raw materials is growing and
the officiat control of these activities is inadequate.
IV.  CONCLUSIONS
A.    The Impact of the Prooram
40.         As emphasized before (para. 1), this is only a limited assessment
of the Program since several projects in its support are not covered.
Moreover, some important up-to-date information, such as the distribution of
land ownership, is not available. Subject to these limitations, it would
appear that in most respects, the Program did not achieve the sound economic
and social development of the Region. But by establishing and strengthening
institutions and initiating important research, it laid the basis for expanded
efforts in the future provided a strong political commitment is backed with
adequate resources of staff and funds. Specifically:
(a)   The effort to consolidate land settlement and agricultural
production in central Rond8nia was too small tc make a sufficient
impact on the needs of that area. While agricultural production
has increased considerably, the long-term viability of this
agricultural development is still in question because of series of
institutional, technical and financial constraints. The
sustainability of agriculture in other, agronomically less



- 44 -
Annex
Page 11 of 14
suitable frontier lands ln the Program area is unllkely under
existing economic and technological conditions.
(b)   Environmental conditions in the area have continued to
deteriorate. Deforestation has been rapid and agro-forestry
efforts have not been implemented on a slgnificant scale. Mining
has led to extensive water and soil pollution. Biological
reserves were established but they suffer from frequent invasions
by settlers, logger. and miners. Four ecological stations were
established but their effectiveness as research stations has bee
weakened because of insufficient financial support and many of the
results were not effectively utilized. A State Environment
Agency, State Forestry Institute, State Land Institute, and
Forestry Military Pollce have been established and which is an
important accomplishment in spite of their operational
limitations.
(c)   The education system was expanded and is helping to meet demand,
but the quality of teaching is not adequate.
(d)   The lands and culture of the Amerindian population continue to be
threatened by the rapid development of the Reglon. Most of the
Indian reserves have been demarcated, but protecting the reserees
against illegal invasions has been difficult. Health and
educational services have had only a limited impact, though the
population is now increasing. The effort to initiate economic
development did not succeed. The SAR had recognized this as an
important risk but believed it could be minimized by a strong
Government commitment, a strengthening of the responsible agency
(FUNAI) and careful monitoring.
41.         It seems likely that without the Program, migration into the
Regior. would have been less or spread 'over a longer period of time, depending
on the Government's ability to complete the road (BR-364) without Bank
assistance, but that agricultural settlements would have been less orderly and
productive and that protection of the environment and the Amerindians would
have been substantially weaker.
B.    Reasons for Shortcominas
42.         There are a number of reasons for the shortcomings of the Program:
(a)   The Government of Brazil was strongly committed to opening up the
frontier area to migratlon, but it gave loes priority to the other
components of the Program, especially the protection of the
environment and the Amerindians. As a result, the major highway
to Rond6nia was completed ahead of schedule while effective
demarcation of Indian reserves started on a signlficant scale only
after the Bank informally suspended disbursements Ln 1985, and
implementation of the environmental protection component was weak
until the last years of the project period.



- 45 -
Annex
Page 12 of 14
(b)   The economic and financial situation of Brazil was extremely
difficult during the period, so that budgets were very limited and
by the time funds were received, their value had been further
reduced by rapid inflation. The Bank tried to help meet this
problem by increasing disbursements under the Special Action
Program, but a shortage of funds remained pervasive.
({)   The key institutions responsible for the environment were weak as
a result of serious management, staffing and budgetary problems.
The Project ha. zecognized this as a major risk, but improving
institutions, especially those operating in frontier conditLons,
is difficult and takes a long time. The implementation schedule
for the Program was not realistic. However, the Program has
created or strengthened key institutions in Rondonia, such as
those dealing with agricultural research and extension, forestry
protection and the environment, which will be important for future
development.
(d)   The volume of immigration into the Region had not been foreseen.
As a result the scale of the Program was too small to deal with
the impact of such massive migration. Related to this was the
failure to address adequately the problems of mining and urban
development.
(e)   The phasing of the implementaticn of different components
undermined orderly development. In particular, the early
completion of the main highway accelerated migration before the
institutions and policLes were in place to assure proper
agricultural settlement and protection of the environment and the
Amerindians. Similarly, physical infrastructure such as NUAR's,
schools, health posts and forest control posts could not be
utilized properly because of inadequate staff and operating funds.
(f)   The arrangements for monitoring and evaluation did not work
adequately. Since the Program was inherently experlmental and
risky, monitoring was particularly important to warn the
responsible agencies promptly of problems in implementation.
V. MAJOR LSSONS
43.         The implementation of the Program offers a number of important
general lessons, in addition to the more specific lessons discussed in the
PCRs.
A.   Strategv for Frontier Develooment
44.         The Program was based on the Government's strategy of alleviating
serLous unemployment and poverty, particular in the southern parts of BrazLl,
by encouraging migration to frontier areas. The Bank does not seem to have
questioned that strategy but tried to channel Lts implementation toward sound



- 46 -
Annex
Page 13 of 14
economic and environmental develepment.  Given the fraglilty of these areas,
the llmlted opportunLties they offer for sustaLnable employment, ard the
potentLal for great harm to the envlronment from thelr development, such a
strategy needs to be carefully weighed agaLnst other polLcies to lmprove
employment opportunLtLes and livLng standards ln Brazil.
BS    Government Commitment
45.         Government commitment to the objectLves of a program is always
important, but lt becomes crucLal when the polltlcal and economlc rLsks are
unusually high, the institutLonal basis weak and the Government is faced wlth
sericus financial difficultLes. The SAR recognized the lmportance of thLs but
the Government's strong commltment to the constructlon of the road, on the one
hand, and the lower prlorlty glven to the protectlon of the envlronment and
the Ameriadians, on the other, was not fully appreclated.
C.    Proiect PreparatLon and Monitoring
46.         The Project was based on extensive preparation efforts lncludlng a
comprehensive, multLdiscipllnary study of the Reglon, but ln retrospect they
were not sufflclent. The knowiedge of soil conditLons, of appropriate
productLon and conservatLon technLques, of methods to protect forests, of
minlng actLvltLes, etc. was lncomplete. Moreover, preparation did not address
macro-economic polLcies, such as flical lncentlves and subsldlzed credlt,
whlch were LaconsLstent wlth the objectives of the Program by encouraging
unsustalnable livestock development and deforestatlon.
47.         The SAR recognized the risk of lneomplete knowledge, though not
the extent of lt. There is, howcver, a trade-off between more preparation,
lnvolvlng costs and time and still inevltably not resolving all uncertaLntLes,
and startLng a project wlth more limlted knowledge, and recognLzang that it la
an experiment whlch needs to be carefully monltored and adjusted as the
lessons of experlence are belng learned. Thls cholce was partleularly
difflcult ln this Program sLnce the mlgratLon to the frontler was already ln
full swing. Unfortunately, the rlsks from lnsufflelent preparatLon wero often
not adequately met by prompt modlflcations ln lmplementation.
D.    Inteoratlon and PhasLno of Proaram Components
48.         The various components of the Program are Lnterrelated so that
successful implementatlon of some depend on adequate progress wlth others.
Thls was not always the case. The early completion of the road encouraged
mlgratlon before there was suffLeLent knowledge about soll condltLons for
farmLng, and many envlronmental actLons were not lnltlated untll considerable
damage had already been done. Such lntegratlon of actlvltles, for whlch
dlfferent agencles wlth different degrees of administrative competence are
responsLble, li lnherently dlfflcult but the SEAR dld not address lts
Lmportance in achlevlng the sound development of the Reglon.
49.         A related problem concernLng phasLng arose from the fact that
whlle most of the Lnfrastructure flnanced under the Program was bullt and the



- 47 -
Annex
Page 14 of 14
needed institutions were established, their eft-ctive operation turned out to
be much more difficult than had been anticipated. The road was built, but has
been poorly maintained; forest reserves were establlshed, but plans for their
protection were not implemented; schools were built but the quality of
instruction is inadequate. It is much easler to hire contractors for
construction or enact legislation to establish - new agency than to assure the
availability of sound management, qualifled staff and adequate financLal
resources. This problem is not unique to the particular projects being
evaluated, but it raises lmportant iesues about unrealistic goals and
expectation., reflected in unrealistic lmplementation plans. These issues are
particularly relevant in this Program because of the very difficult physical
environment in which it was belng implemented and the need to establLsh new
inotitutions or rapidly expand old ones, at a time of serious shortages of
staff and flnancial resources.
S.    Role of the Bank
SO.         The Bank played a valuable .olc in promoting orderly settlement,
strengthenLng the protection of the environment and of Amerindians and in
encouraging necessary modifications during implementation. On the other hand,
by firancing the road, it helped to accelerate migration to the Region before
the institutions were ready to handle the rapld increase in population. Nor
does the Bank seem to have questLoned the basic strategy for development of
the Amazon Basin and the financial policies which in effect subsidLzed
uneconomic forest exploitation and were, therefore, inconsistent with the
Program objectives. The Bank did not appreclate that the scope of the Program
was insufficient to address the range and size of the problems which the
Region faced.
51.         The Project raises an important iesue about the Bank's supervision
function. Supervision has two purposes - to inform the Bank about progress in
project implementation, including compliance with loan conditions, and to
provlde technical assistance to the implementing agencies. For most projects
these functions can be carried out by two or three fleld missions per year.
However, in a project of this sels and complexity and with such major risks,
theu Bank may want to conelder the desirability of stationing its own staff in
the project area, especially during crucial periods of implementation. It
would provide the Bank with more up-to-date lnformation on progress and
greater opportunitles for technical asesitance. But it runs the risk that the
Bank would interfere, or could be seen to interfere, with the Government's
exclusive responsibility for project implementation and thus even weaken the
responsible agencies. If that risk can be minimLzed, the full-time stationing
of staff in the area deserves careful consideratLon Ln projects of this type.
Thli was in fact done for the Road Project but not for the Agriculture and
Environment Project.



