Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-3138-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHWEST REGION HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       November 2, 1981
Currency Unit  =        Cruzeiro (Cr$)         Cr$
US$1           =        Cr$53.25               Cr$114.46
Cr$1                   US$0.14                US$0.0087
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$68.10)
corresponds to the cruzeiro average January 1981 exchange rate, unless
otherwise mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASTER-RO      -   Associacao de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural-Rondonia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association-Rondonia)
BNDE          -   Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank)
CODARON       -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Development Company)
DERMAT        -   Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Mato Grosso
(Mato Grosso Roads Department)
DER-RO        -   Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
(Rondonia Roads Department)
DNER          -   Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Roads Department)
FUNAI         -   Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
GEIPOT        -   Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
(National Transport Planning Agency)
IBDF          -   Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA         -   Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
POLAMAZONIA   -   Programa de Polos Agropecuario e Agrominerais de Amazonia
(Amazon Agricultural and Mineral Poles Program)
POLONOROESTE  -   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEPLAN-PR     -   Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Secretariat of Planning)
SEPLAN-RO     -   Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
SOSP          -   Secretaria de Obras e Servicos Publicoslica
(Secretariat of Public Works and Services)
SUDECO        -   Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West Region)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:          US$240 million equivalent
Terms:           Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.
Project          The loan is one of three being presented simultaneously,
Description:  which together form the first phase of the Bank's
proposed participation in an integrated development program
for northwest Brazil (POLONOROESTE program). This program
is designed to help bring order to the spontaneous settlement
of a region of about 410,000 km  covering all the federal
territory of Rondonia and 14 municipalities in the central
and western part of the state of Mato Grosso. The program
aims at increasing the productivity, income, and social
welfare of the region's present and future population, and
is expected to benefit directly some 120,000 small-scale
farm families. At the core of the program is the paving of
the heavily traveled and badly deteriorated 1,500 km Cuiaba-
Porto Velho road, and the investments required to achieve the
balanced socio-economic development of the road's area of
influence and to protect the region's Amerindian population
and natural environment.
The proposed highway project consists of the following main
components: (a) reconstruction, including paving of about
1,084 km of highway, between Corrego Campinas (Mato Grosso)
and Ariquemes (Rondonia); construction of four bridges;
construction of maintenance and traffic control facilities;
provision and installation of equipment for traffic control
and monitoring of pavement behavior; and consultant services
for supervision of construction; (b) upgrading of the Rondonia
Roads Department's (DER-RO) administrative and implementation
capabilities through the provision of technical assistance and
staff training; vehicles and equipment for road maintenance
activities; equipment for training, traffic control, labora-
tories, workshops, and offices; and (c) construction or
improvement of about 500 km of feeder roads in Rondonia and of
488 km in Mato Grosso. The bulk of the project would be
implemented over the four-year period 1982-85. The other two
associated projects are an agricultural development and
environmental protection project (Report No. P-3137-BR) and a
health project (Report No. P-3139-BR).



- i_ i -
Risks:          The POLONCY f.OFS`ili ,>rogram is to be implemented in a frontier
area of th;_ Amazor region. The lack of detailed knowledge
of this region leaves scope for genuine differences of
opinion on the environmental risks of the program. The
proposed associated projects include measures designed to
protect the more fragile areas of the region. In the
remaining areas, land use would be closely monitored and
any potenlJially dangerous trends checked. The proposed
program would entai'l icreased risks to the region's Amerindian
communities, some of which are still in an early stage of
contact with the rational society.  The government is taking
steps to improve the organization, operation and funding of the
National Indian Fcunldation (FUNAI) and has prepared a special
project for the protection of these communities. These measures
are indicative of the government's commitment to protect the
interests of the regio]i's Amerindian population and have
already been iuitiated.  The continuity and timeliness of these
actions would be closely monitored.  The federal and local
executing agencies would receive substantial inputs through
the projects to improve their uneven institutional capacities.
Despite all these mitigating measures and noted commitment
on the part of the government authorities and the staff
of the executing agencies, the execution of the program would
entail a high degree of risk. These risks are, however,
considerably lower than those which would exist if no attempts
were made to bring under control the negative effects of
the ongoing spontaneous and disorderly development of the
northwest region.
The National Roads Department's (DNER's) technical capability,
and the competence of the road contracting industry, have
been demonstrated previously. The arrangements for super-
vision are adequate and reflect past good experience. There-
fore, the physical implementation of the highway construction
component presents no special risk. Commitment being sought
from the government with respect to specific physical and
financing targets for rehabilitation and maintenance of the
federal highway system would ensure that this project would
not hamper DNER efforts to meet mounting requirements in
these areas.



- iii -
Estimated Costs: I/
-- US$ Millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
A. Highway Construction Component
Construction of 1,084 km of
Highway, Bridges, and Support
Facilities                          256.7    138.1   394.8
Supervision (about 7%)                 21.1       6.6    27.7
Equipment for One Weighing
Station                               0.3       0.1     0.4
Vehicles and Equipment for
Highway Patrol                        0.4       0.3     0.7
Equipment to Monitor Pavement
Behavior                              -         0.2     0.2
Subtotal                         278.5    145.3   423.8
B. DER-RO Strengthening Component
Civil Works for Residences and
Depots                                3.8       2.0     5.8
Maintenance Equipment, Vehicles
and Plant                            10.3      10.3    20.6
Equipment for Offices, Laborato-
ries, and Workshops                   0.7      0.6      1.3
Technical Assistance and Training       2.3       1.6     3.9
Subtotal                          17.1     14.5    31.6
C. Feeder Roads Component
Construction/Improvement of about
988 km of Feeder Roads 2/ in
Rondonia and Mato Grosso             21.7      10.6    32.3
BASE COST                             317.3    170.4   487.7
D. Contingencies
Physical                               45.9      24.6    70.5
Price                                  83.8      45.0   128.8
Subtotal                                  129.7      69.6   199.4
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST              447.0    240.0   687.0
1/   In May 1981 terms, with an exchange rate of US$ = Cr$ 82.90.
2/   Farm access roads, linking individual farms to the Rural Service Centers
(NUARs) would be financed under the agricultural development and environ-
mental protection project.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                                         -----US$ Millions---
Local   Foreign   Total
Government                            430.4       -      430.4
BNDE                                   16.6       -       16.6
IBRD                                     -      240.0    240.0
TOTAL                         447.0    240.0    687.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        --     US$ Millions Equivalent
Bank-FY           FY82      FY83       FY84       FY85      FY86
Annual            36.0       61.0      61.0       57.0       25.0
Cumulative        36.0      97.0      158.0      215.0     240.0
Rate of Return:  The economic rate of return for the entire POLONOROESTE
program has been estimated at over 50%. The economic rate
of return has been estimated at about 30% for the highway
upgrading and construction component.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 3532b-BR of November 9, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL I/
FOR A NORTHWEST REGION HIGHWAY PROJECT-
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$240 million
to help finance the northwest region highway project. This project is asso-
ciated with an agricultural development and environmental protection project
and a health project which together, form the first phase of Bank participation
in a Northwest Region Integrated Development Program. Documents concerning the
northwest region agricultural development and environmental protection project
and the health project are being distributed at the same time as this report.
The proposed loan would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2!
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil"' (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for the second half of FY82. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult
balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the government
include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported
petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth,
with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of about 9% and 6%
per annum, respectively. During the 1967-73 period, growth was achieved with
1/   Parts I, II and III of this Report are identical to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Northwest Region Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project (Report No. P-3137-BR)
and the Northwest Region Health Project (Report No. P-3139-BR), being
distributed at about the same time as this report.
2/   This section is reproduced without substantial change from the economic
section of the President's Report on the Piaui Rural Development Project
(Report No. P-3078-BR, dated May 28, 1981).



- 2 -
no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite consider-
able trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline in the
rate of domestic inflation. However, given the heavy dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the
quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration
in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a succession of
bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted in increasing
balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of inflation.
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints, while responding to con-
tinuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment and
simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment,
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining rapid
growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to reduce
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were successfully
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports (particularly of
manufactures), increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution, and
heavy external borrowing, including large additions to international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum,
however, would necessarily involve a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports, and intensifica-
tion of domestic inflationary pressures increased the economy's vulnerability
to further external shock. That vulnerability has been severely tested by
the additionaL sharp increases in petroleum prices and international interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the union-
ized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Industrial
production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output suf-
fered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost but showed some
recovery from the depressed levels of 1978.  Overall, GDP growth was 6.4%.
High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid
acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of the year, the highest
rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.9 billion deficit in 1979.
The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or US$2.2
billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to which more
than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising gross
interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion in 1979.
Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$6 billion to US$10
billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.



9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues, totaled US$11.9 billion and US$5.4 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about six months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were fol-
lowed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April
1980. The most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of
the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the
prior deposit requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enter-
prise investments, imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the intro-
duction of a programmed phase-out of most tax earmarkings; a modification of
administered credit programs intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of
direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system; and the
establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and exchange rate adjustments
during 1980 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest
and continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, merchandise exports grew by 32% in 1980 as a
consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion of manufactured
exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports expanded almost
as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth of the economy,
higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory accumulation early
in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import controls. Despite the
rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume of petroleum imports fell
from just over one million b/d in 1979 to 929,000 b/d in 1980 as a result of
conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution. Nevertheless, the trade
deficit for the year totaled US$2.8 billion. External borrowing totaled about
US$15 billion (including an estimated US$2-3 billion of short-term borrowing),
and reserves were drawn down by an additional US$3.5 billion falling to about
US$6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the year. Although Brazil was able to obtain
the required US$5-6 billion net external financing, loan terms were tighter.
Total medium- and long-term external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about US$56 billion.
1/   After gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



- 4 -
13.       A number of important policy measures have been introduced in 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion was targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction is being brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate is again being adjusted
for the differential between domestic and international inflation (measured
in dollars). Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls,
interest rates on official credits have been raised, and price controls are
being progressively relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions
tax on imports from 15-25% has served to further discourage imports, while
some tax incentives to exports have been restored. Although the net impact
of these measures may have been a short-term increase in inflation, there is
now evidence of greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
Poverty Programs
14.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the present tight fiscal and monetary
restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which
is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural northeast.
The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost
two million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank
(BNH) since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services
to rural areas is a government priority in the health sector. A program for
grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil was initiated
in 1976. Plans are underway for expanding this program into a comprehensive
national primary health care program. A sites and services program was
establislhed in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was
complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building
materials. High priority has also been given to the extension and improvement
of urban water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising
about 30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems
since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such
services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related
problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.        Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision-makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Accelerated devaluations of the
cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual freeing
of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution.
Public investments may be constrained by reduced resource availabilities over
the next several years and foreign lenders, including the Bank, should be
prepared to finance a significant proportion of project costs including, when
necessary, a part of local costs. Furthermore, priority attention will con-
tinue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture
and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per annum in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit through 1983, falling there-
after. The debt service ratio would decline slowly. These projections are
highly sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, international interest rates,
and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt
service and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy
more vulnerable to external events than it has been for many years, and this
situation may be expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period even
if international interest rates should decline. Thus large service account
deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits on the order of
US$10-12 billion through 1983. As a proportion of CDP, the current account
deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.6% in 1980. This
projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting
continued import substitution, as well as a strengthening of the overall
domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would appear beginning in 1982.



- 6 -
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively there-
after to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about
US$19 billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-
year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in
1980 to about 43% in 1985.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left the
economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The government
recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policymakers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By September 30, 1981 the Bank had made 106 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$5,995.6 million (net of cancellations), of which 54 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378 million
in FY81. They are expected to increase further during the next few years.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



The total undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1981 was US$2,950.2O million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1981
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from U5$425
million to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made total-
ing US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totaling US$425 million; in FY78,
nine loans totaling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totaling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totaling US$695 million were made. In FY81, eight
loans totaling US$844 million were approved -- US$125 million for a second
power transmission project to ELETROSUL, US$56 million -for a second Ceara rural
development project, US$54 million for an electric power system coordination
project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project, US$180 million for
a multi-state water supply and sewerage project, US$250 million for a fuel
alcohol and biomass energy development project, US$60 million for a second
agricultural research and US$29 million for a rural development project in the
state of Piaui. Work is relatively advanced on the second and third phase
projects of the northwest region development program, an agricultural develop-
ment project in the state of Amazonas, a rural development project in the state
of Maranhao, a third loan for secondary and feeder roads, an urban development
project in Recife, and a large iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas.
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51 billion, and is estimated to have been
US$56 billion at the end of 1980.  At the end of 1979, the Bank held 3.6% of
the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2%. In 1980,
the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to have risen slightly
to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to about 1.9%. These per-
centages are not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
25.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$774.5
million, of which US$519.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  Of
the balance of US$254.9 million, US$193.8 million represent loans and US$61.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of September 30 1981 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help to
intensify the efforts of the government to identify and develop projects that
will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income segmentLs of
the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups,
and to improve their living conditions. Consistent with this objective, the
proposed northwest region agricultural development and environmental protection
project and the associated health and highway projects would help improve the
productivity, incomes, and health and social welfare of the northwest region's
present and future populations. Previous loans for nutrition research and
development, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas especially in the northeast. Further projects to assist
the rural poor are in preparation including several additional integrated rural



development projects. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the
state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the
south, loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites
and services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-
sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the
urban population, particularly of the urban poor.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
associated projects which seek to build up the planning and administration
capabilities required to promote the orderly human occupation and development
of Brazil's fast growing northwest frontier. The associated proposed projects
would help upgrade the Brazilian institutions charged with the protection of
the region's fragile ecosystem and would help the territory of Rondonia, which
is scheduled to become a full-fledged state in early 1982, develop its capa-
bilities for planning, implementing and coordinating rural development, health
and road activities. Loans for urban development, electric power, railways,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, rural dev-
elopment, water supply and sewerage, and the recently approved loan for alcohol
and biomass energy development also have important institution-building
objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic produc-
tion for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade
and balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the government's economic policy.
The proposed associated projects would also directly contribute to this objec-
tive by helping develop a region that has a considerable potential for agricul-
tural production and by facilitating a rapid and fuel efficient flow of goods
over the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway. Lending for the electric power
sector supports this objective, since it is based primarily on hydroelectric
energy, and its development lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank
support of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to sub-
stitute large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid
its balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development
project directly addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports.
Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports
and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced effi-
ciently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and
the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.



29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil i3 to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that
Brazil has needed and will continue to need for many years in order to sustain
satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional development
objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as an important sign of confidence in Brazil
and encourages others to continue contributing to the country's development.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations,
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation, including about
US$110 million in private co-financing for the CEEE Power Distribution Project
(Loan No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR) about US$65 million in
private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan
No. 1895-BR), and US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development
Project (Loan No. 1989-BR).
PART III - THE NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 1/
30.       General Presentation.  The northwest region of Brazil is officially
defined as the area of influence of the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road
(BR-364).  This area encompasses all of the federal territory of Rondoria
(scheduled to gain statehood in early 1982) and 14 municipalities located in
the central and western parts of the state of Mato Grosso. in total the
northwest region covers approximately 410,000 km2 -- about three quarters the
size of France (IBRD Map No. 14865R2). The region was practically uninhabited,
except for scattered Indian communities and itinerant rubber-tappers and
prospectors, until completion in the mid-1960s of a 1,500 km earth road
linking the two major cities of the region, Cuiaba and Porto Velho, startec a
massive influx of migrants in search of land and employment. The 1980 regional
population was estimated at 1,060,000, having grown at a rate of about 1Oi8X
per annum over the last decade (7.8% per annum in Mato Grosso and 15.8X per
annum in Rondoniia); it is expected to continue to grow by about 10% per Annum
during the 1978-88 period.  The average population density is still less than
three inhabitants per km2(the national average is 14 inhabitants per km2),
mostly concentrated in towns and settlements built along BR-364. One of ^:he
main attractions of the northwest region and one of its distinctive character-
istics, shared by few other parts of the Amazon, is the relatively widespread
existence of climatic conditions and soils suitable for agriculture.  However,
soils are quite heterogeneous and, as development in many areas is recent,
systematic research and evaluation will be needed.  The region is estimated to
have some 29,000 km2 of good eutrophic podsols, mainly in Rondonia.   A f':rLher
I/   For a more detailed assessment of the northwest region developmenc
potential and constraints and of the Northwest Region Development Program
see "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier" (Report
No. 3042a-BR, dated December 23, 1980).



- 10 -
half of the remaining soils are estimated to be capable of sustaining agricul-
ture, mainly the cultivation of tree crops, with appropriate agricultural
practices and inputs. In 1978, about 1% of the region was planted in either
annual or tree crops and about 80% remained in its natural state; natural and
seeded pasture and forestry operations accounted for the remainder.
31.       Constraints on the Region's Development.  The large and uncontrolled
influx of migrants into the northwest region that has followed the opening of
the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway has brought into prominence a number of key
areas of concern in the development of the region. One such area of concern
is the potential threat to the Amerindian groups located in the region. They
are estimated to number about 8,000 people distributed among 22 different
tribal groups, some of which have yet to be contacted. About 4,600 Amerindians
live in designated official Amerindian areas totaling 5.6 million ha, of which
some 1.6 million ha have been demarcated. The recent swell of migration to
the region has increased the transmission of diseases, such as tuberculosis,
measles and influenza, to which the Amerindians have little or no immunity,
and has intensified pressures on their lands. Squatters have, in some cases,
invaded officially designated Amerindian areas.
32.       Increased threats to the fragile and little-known northwest region's
natural environment from the rapid human occupation of the area constitute
another area of concern. To date, spontaneous migrants and existing settlement
schemes have, by and large, occupied areas of good soils, and the pace of
deforestation, though increasing, remains much lower than commonly thought
(less than 5% of the forest area had been cleared as of 1980). However, if
adequate policies and institutional capabilities are not developed to help
direct the increasing human occupation of the region, there will be an increas-
ing risk that occupation of poorer soils with ill-adapted agricultural practices
and uncontrolled deforestation could result in leaching and erosion of the
soil, and possibly changes in the climatic and hydrological conditions. Finally,
the failure of some past attempts at settling small-scale farmers elsewhere in
the Amazon region has demonstrated the need to provide migrants with a range
of productive and social infrastructure and services in order to fix them
productively and permanently to the land and create a sense of community and
security in otherwise unstable and harsh frontier conditions. Malaria and
precarious health conditions are special threats to the new settler in Rondonia.
33.       Program Formulation and Concept.  The orderly occupation and develop-
ment of the northwest region is currently of high priority to the Brazilian
government. The region is perceived as an important future source of agricul-
tural production for export and domestic markets and a locat-Yin where migrants
from other parts of Brazil can be productively and permanently settled. In
August 1979, an interministerial working group was established for defining a
strategy for the harmonious development of the region. The recommendations of
this working group served as the basis for a federal special program called
the northwest region integrated development program (POLONOROESTE). The
POLONOROESTE program, established by a Presidential decree of May 27, 1981, is
the latest of several regional development programs currently underway in
Brazil. At the core of the program is the paving of the heavily traveled and
badly deteriorated Cuiaba-Porto Velho earth road, and the investments required
to achieve the balanced socio-economic development of the road's area of
influence and to protect the region's Amerindian population and natural
environment.



- 11 -
34.       Program Components.  The POLONOROESTE program calls for the execution
of integrated measures in the following areas: (a) improvement of the transport
system through the paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and the improvement
of the feeder road network (53% of estimated program costs); (b) establishing
new settlement schemes expected to accommodate up to 30,000 migrant families
(24%); (c) consolidation of existing settlement schemes in Rondonia and Mato
Grosso (15%); (d) land tenure services to provide settlers with definitive title
to their land (1%); (e) environmental protection including establishment 1/
of natural reserves, institutional upgrading and ecological research (2%);
(f) health activities for the territory of Rondonia and health research (2%);
(g) protection of the Amerindian population (2%); and (h) program administra-
tion and coordination (1%). Further details on program components are provided
in Annex IV. The program is expected to be implemented over a six-year period.
Bank participation in the program's financing is currently envisaged in three
overlapping phases. The first and most extensive phase includes the proposed
associated highways, agricultural development and environmental protection, and
health projects. The second phase would encompass the already appraised rural
development project in Mato Grosso designed to assist some 17,500 farm families.
The third phase would cover new planned settlement schemes in suitable areas
of Rondonia and Mato Grosso. Though this new settlement phase of the program
was initially expected to place 30,000 families on 3 million ha during the
next 5-6 years, availability of accessible suitable lands, execution capacity
constraints, and delays or complications in the development of appropriate
production recommendations where cultivable soils of relatively lower quality
are to be used, may well limit the number of farmers and the total new area
settled, or may also extend the execution period for these new settlement
schemes.
35.       Measures for Protecting and Assisting the Program Area's Amerindian
Population. Measures envisaged under the POLONOROESTE program for reinforcing
the protection of the northwest region's Amerindian population have already
been initiated and would continue to be carried out with funds entirely pro-
vided by the government. Under a special project prepared by the federal
government authorities, FUNAI is upgrading its organization and operation in
the region and has already initiated a series of measures giving priority
treatment to (a) the protection and demarcation of Amerindian lands and the
removal of illegal settlers; and (b) health care, through stepped-up
preventive campaigns and more effective assistance to fight infectious
diseases. New health posts would be established and existing mobile health
units expanded to attend to the needs of the Amerindian groups located
in the Guapore Valley where the only new section of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
highway is to be built. Further lines of action would seek to promote educa-
tion and economic development activites. To achieve these objectives, FUNAI's
regional infrastructure and administrative set-up would be upgraded by estab-
lishing and equipping new Amerindian posts, purchasing vehicles and recruiting
and training new staff. Planning would be decentralized for more efficient
field level involvement. Central coordination and synchronization with
POLONORESTE activities would be provided by a special coordinator who has
1/   This segment is discussed in full in the agricultural development and
environmental protection project (Report No. P-3137-BR).



- 12 -
already been appointed. Key protection measures such as these pertaining to
the Amerindians' health and lands would precede the initiation of the develop-
ment activities where necessary. The federal government has agreed to take all
necessary measures to put into effect promptly the above special project and
to provide in a timely fashion the funds, staff and other resources required
for the implementation of the protection measures. The federal government has
also confirmed that it would: (a) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to periodically review in the field the progress of the implementation of
these protection measures; (b) furnish to the Bank such information as the
Bank may require on the carrying out and impact of the special project; and
(c) strengthen the operation of FUNAI, particularly its monitoring and evalu-
ating capability in order to improve the efficiency of the protective measures
included in the special project. To this effect, FUNAI would, by May 31,
1982, enter into contract with Brazilian institutions or experts whose quali-
fications, experience, and terms of reference would be submitted to the Bank
by March 31, 1982 (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement for the Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project and Supplemental Letter No. 1).
Appropriate arrangements would be entered into by FUNAI and DNER to determine
their respective obligations with respect to measures for protecting the
Amerindian communities against possible harm associated with the highway
construction works (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Program Administration and Coordination
36.       Overall Coordination.  The overall administration and coordination
of the POLONOROESTE program would be effected within the legal and organiza-
tional framework applicable to Brazil's other special regional development
programs. The Ministry of Interior through the Superintendency for the
Development of the Center-West Region (SUDECO) is thus responsible for planning,
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the POLONOROESTE
program. The Federal Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-PR) retains, however,
a major role in the definition of financing levels and the funding of this
and other programs. At the federal level, SUDECO would be the key agency
responsible for ensuring that activities planned under the proposed project
are well synchronized with other segments of the POLONOROESTE program. At
the state or territorial level, a directing council chaired by the governor,
and comprising all secretariats and representatives of key federal and local
agencies involved in the implementation of the state or territorial segment
of the POLONOROESTE program, would establish policies and give overall guidance.
Daily coordination, administration, monitoring and evaluation of all local
POLONOROESTE activities would be the responsibility of a special program
coordination unit linked to the secretariat of planning.
37.       Program Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the POLONOROESTE
program, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at about
US$1.5 billion. This excludes agricultural credit on the order of US$100 milliolu
A breakdown of these costs is given in Annex IV to this report. The preliminary
government financing plan for the POLONOROESTE program assumes that 43% of the
program would be financed from the budgets of the various executing agencies,
and 23% from special development program funds. The government has requested
Bank financing for the remaining 34%. Agricultural credit would be financed



- 13 -
through existing credit programs outside the POLONOROESTE program budget.
Funding would be channelled through the various implementation agencies after
approval by SEPLAN-PR and under the supervision of SUDECO, which would coor-
dinate and monitor all program activities. Funds allocated to agencies of
the state of Mato Grosso and the territory of Rondonia would be channelled
through their respective planning secretariats.
38.       Program Benefits and Justification.  The northwest region has con-
siderable potential in agriculture and forestry, and response to public invest-
ments made through the POLONOROESTE program is expected to be both rapid and
extensive. The region's agricultural production is expected to grow at a 13%
average annual rate (compared to a historical growth rate of 5% for all
Brazilian agriculture), while more sustained cropping would be encouraged.
Transport cost savings associated with program investments in transport infra-
structure would result in improved price incentives to agricultural producers
and cost-efficient access to domestic and export markets. The POLONOROESTE
program would provide large numbers of poor migrants with enhanced employment
and income opportunities and would substantially improve living conditions,
especially access to education and health. An economic rate of return computa-
tion for the program has been attempted, based on a comparison of the "with-
and-without" program situations. The "without" situation assumes no invest-
ments in the main highway or feeder roads, no institutional strengthening and
no additional technical support of agriculture. The "with program" scenario
incorporates all actions to be undertaken under the program. The internal
rate of return of the program, computed over a 20-year period, has been
estimated at over 50%, reflecting primarily the predicted substantial increase
in agricultural output as well as the impact of improving facilities for
transporting this output (see details in Annex IV). Major non-quantifiable
benefits include better protection of large ecologically sensitive areas,
intensification of efforts to protect the Amerindian population, improved
health and education services, strengthening of the capacity of regional
institutions, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin environment. There
are also costs which are difficult to quantify attached to the development
of the region, such as those associated with possible invasions of unsuitable
soils, potential threats to native flora and fauna species and pressure on
previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the occupation and
development process of the region has already begun, such costs would be far
higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated through the
proposed program.
39.       Program Risks.  The POLONOROESTE program is to be implemented in a
frontier area of the Amazon region. The lack of some detailed regional
information gives rise to uncertainties regarding the environmental risks of
the program. The proposed associated projects include measures to help
protect the more fragile areas of the region. In the remaining areas, land
use would be closely monitored so that potentially dangerous trends could be
halted. The proposed program would entail increased risks to the region's
Amerindian communities, some of which are still in an early stage of contact
with the national society. The government is taking steps to improve the
organization, operation, and funding of FUNAI, and has prepared a detailed
special project for the protection of these communities. These measures are
indicative of the government's commitment to protect the interests of the
region's Amerindian population, and have been initiated. The continuity and



- 14 -
timeliness of these actions would be closely monitored. The federal and local
executing agencies would receive substantial inputs through the projects to
improve their uneven institutional capacities. Despite these mitigating
measures, the execution of the program would entail a high degree of risk.
However, this risk would be considerably lower than that which would exist
were no attempts made to control the negative effects of the ongoing spontaneous
and disorderly development of the northwest region.
PART IV - THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
Subsector Role, Constraints and Policy
40.       The large area of Brazil, combined with an abundance of agricultural
land and mineral resources, has made transportation a crucial element in the
development of the economy. Historically, a large share of Brazilian products
have moved by road, and at first, the country's highway network fanned out from
its major ports. More recently, emphasis has been placed on the integration
of the hinterland regions. Brazil has over 1.4 million km of roads; of these,
about 5% are federal highways, 5% are state highways, and 84% are municipal
roads and tracks. The network has been growing at an average rate of about 4%
annually. The principal transport flows in Brazil reflect the regional distri-
bution of economic activities and recent production increases, particularly of
soybean and grains in the south, and iron ore and steel in the center regions.
41.       Development of the national transportation network has absorbed a
considerable proportion of the country's total investment. From 1974 to 1978,
transport consistently accounted for about 20% of gross fixed national capital
formation, a comparatively high figure which reflects the size of the country.
Since 1974, transport policy has reflected the government's endeavor to reduce
Brazil's dependence on imported oil and to alleviate the impact of high prices
of petroleum products on transport cost. This policy has led to a higher
emphasis on rail and water transport, although in 1978 road transportation
still received about 72% of the Cr$142.2 billion (about US$7.7 billion equiv-
alent) invested in the transport sector. Rail transport received 12%, 11%
went to ports and marine transport, and 5% to air transport, pipelines and
terminals.
42.       In addition, recent transport policy has been shaped by the govern-
ment's attempt to restrain public expenditures by placing ceilings on capital
investments made by public agencies. To improve the control of expenditures
within the government's overall economic policy, and in line with the govern-
ment's intention gradually to eliminate earmarked taxes, increasing proportions
of road taxes previously marked for DNER have instead been channelled through
the Ministry of Planning's National Development Fund to other transport
sectors including railroads and urban mass transport. The marked reduction in
total DNER expenditures, from Cr$131.7 billion (in January 1981 terms) in
1975 to Cr$101.4 billion by 1981, has been accompanied by significant changes
in the relative weights given different expenditure items. Between 1975
and 1980, DNER expenditures for highway construction decreased from about 46%
to 21% of total expenditures. Envisaged construction investments, such as
the proposed Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway improvements that would represent 30%,



- 15 -
38%, and 64% of the total foreseen construction budget for 1982, 1983, and
1984 respectively, are primarily designed to facilitate exports and assist in
the incorporation of new agricultural areas with high growth potential.
Expenditures for maintenance and rehabilitation have been increased from 14%
to 23% of the total between 1975 and 1980. The expenditures foreseen for
1982, 1983, and 1984 would be adequate for the required levels of rehabilita-
tion and periodic maintenance works, which are expected to reach a level of at
least 1,300 km and 2,500 km respectively in 1982. Maintenance and rehabilita-
tion levels for subsequent years would be set on the basis of a pluriannual
program which DNER would complete by June 30, 1982. The federal government
has confirmed that the federal highway network would be adequately maintained,
that appropriate budgetary allocations would be made available for the purpose,
and that it would exchange views with the Bank on DNER's proposed annual
financial plans, to be presented to the Bank by October 31 of each year
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Highway Administration
43.       Responsibility for the federal network and road transport rests with
DNER, an autonomous agency linked to the Ministry of Transport. The National
Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT), and the National Transportation Council
(CNT) are the main advisory bodies of the Ministry of Transport. DNER operates
in each state through its Federal Highway District (DRF), each being composed
of operational units for construction and maintenance. Government policy since
1975 has emphasized maintenance and rehabilitation, but the previous rapid
expansion of the federal highway network has strained DNER's maintenance capa-
city, forcing it to rely increasingly on contractors. DNER's present policy
is gradually to delegate the maintenance of federal highways to the states in
order to avoid duplication and higher costs. However, DNER would retain
responsibility for the Primary Interstate Highway system, which comprises some
32,000 km of principal highways. Several years of limited success have shown
that most of the State Highway Departments (DERs) require strengthening before
accepting responsibility for the maintenance of federal roads.
44.       Highway studies are contracted out to domestic consulting firms,
some of which are of international standing. The Brazilian construction
industry is highly competitive; there are numerous well-organized and experi-
enced contractors. In the Sixth Highway Project (Loan No. 1557-BR), about
58 construction firms prequalified for paving and rehabilitation works
costing some US$150 million; 52 firms have been prequalified for the
construction of the proposed Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway. Supervision of
construction has improved considerably (it is usually carried out by consul-
tants under the authority of DNER resident engineers) and the standard of
engineering in Brazil is good, although too little emphasis has been placed
on in-depth geotechnical studies. DNER is giving this matter more attention.
The Highway Subsector in the Northwest
45.       Roads are the core of the northwest's transportation system.  The
Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway is the spinal axis of a regional network comprised
additionally of 1,828 km of state feeder roads, and 6,500 km of municipal
rural acc2ss roads (the equivalent 2f one km of local feeder and access roads
per 50 km in Mato Grosso and 75 km in Rondonia). Construction in the



- 16 -
mid-1960s of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho road has had a profound effect on the rate
and pattern of the northwest's occupation and development. However, the
present condition of the main highway is now a major constraint on the future
development of the northwest region. So, too, is the region's inadequate
system of feeder and access roads, which hampers farm-to-market access, as
well as the population's use of social infrastructure and services.
46.       Administration of highways and roads in the northwest region, as
in other parts of Brazil, is split by jurisdiction. Responsibility for the
federal network rests with DNER, which has a well-organized and staffed DRF in
Mato Grosso. Federal responsibilities in Rondonia, including the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho highway, are shared between DNER's federal district of Manaus and the
Brazilian army engineering batallion. The state highways are administered by
DERs: DERMAT in Mato Grosso and DER-RO in Rondonia. Responsibility for the
feeder and access roads normally rests with the municipal government of the
area in which they are located. The lines dividing jurisdiction are sometimes
blurred, however: the federal government, for example, has built state roads
and state governments often maintain municipal roads.
Bank Involvement in the Highway Sector
47.       The Bank's continuous and active interest in the Brazilian highway
sector dates to 1964 when an economic mission recommended a comprehensive
survey of the sector. The ensuing National Transport Study, which was carried
out in two phases from 1965-70, set the basis for the rapid expansion of the
primary road network and the improvement of institutions for its support.
Since 1968, six loans totaling US$490 million have supported the construction
and improvement of about 5,700 km of federal and state highways, rehabilitation
of about 1,500 km, and the preparation of final engineering designs for more
than 9,000 km. The first four highway projects, which involved construction
and improvement of priority highways, have been successfully completed by DNER.
The main recommendations arising from the Project Performance Audit Reports
relate to the need to pay increased attention to engineering designs, espe-
cially geotechnical surveys and the identification of base materials. DNER
has given the required attention to these recommendations.
48.       Since 1974, the focus of Bank projects has shifted to road main-
tenance and rehabilitation and to supporting the construction of feeder roads.
The Fifth Highway Project (Loan No. 1075-BR) for US$110 million initiated Bank
involvement in maintenance. It was following in 1979 by a loan of US$114
million for road maintenance and rehabilitation (Sixth Highway Project, Loan
No. 1557-BR).  The First Feeder Roads Project (Loan No. 1207-BR) for US$55
million was approved in 1976. An innovative feature of this project was the
channeling, through Brazil's National Development Bank (BNDE), of Bank support
toward the improvement of secondary and access roads, which is the responsi-
bility of the states and municipalities. A Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan
No. 1730-BR, dated June 20, 1979) for US$110 million, intended to provide
continuity to the program assisted by the first project. It became effective
December 1979. A number of financial and managerial problems, including cost
overruns and, lack of counterpart funds, have plagued the implementation
of these highways and feeder roads project. Corrective measures discussed in
connection with this proposed project are being satisfactorily implemented.
A reformulation of the road rehabilitation and feeder roads construction program-,



- 17 -
are being carried out with the concurrence of the Bank, and works are resuming
on the rehabilitation contracts. DNER's management has been recently improved,
and required supplementary funding has been provided by the government.
49.       A number of Bank-financed rural development projects in Brazil have
included rural roads components with a total cost of about US$160 million.
Besides helping to maintain essential municipal rural access and feeder roads
for year-round transit, these project components are supporting the institu-
tional strengthening of state and municipal roads departments. These
components are generally proceeding well although at a slow pace because of
technical, financial and administrative problems.
PART V - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project is part of the POLONOROESTE program, first
reviewed by a Bank identification mission which visited Brazil in October/
November 1979. Project proposals were prepared by the federal, state, and
territorial government authorities with the assistance of consultants.
This project was appraised in January/February 1981, and negotiated from
September 23 to September 30, 1981 jointly with the associated northwest
region agricultural development and environmental protection and the northwest
region health projects. The Brazilian delegation to the negotiations was led
by Ambassador Raul Fernande Seite Ribeiro of the Federal Secretariat of
Planning and Mr. Roberto Cavalcanti de Albuquerque, Deputy Secretary General
of the Ministry of Interior. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Brazil -
Northwest Region Development Program: First Phase - Highway Project " (Report
No. 3532b-RR. dated October 29, 1981) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
Project Objectives and Composition
51.       The proposed project is designed to (a) reduce transport costs and
improve traffic conditions by providing permanent road transport facilities
in the northwest region, and (b) upgrade the institutional capabilities of
DER-RO to a level commensurate with its increased responsibilities under the
POLONOROESTE program.
52.       The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a) reconstruction, including paving of about 1,084 km of highway,
between Corrego Campinas (Mato Grosso) and Ariquemes (Rondonia);
construction of four bridges; construction of maintenance and
traffic control facilities; provision and installation of equip-
ment for traffic control and monitoring of pavement behavior;
and consultant services for supervision of construction;
(b) upgrading of DER-RO administrative and implementation capa-
bilities through the provision of technical assistance and
staff training; vehicles and equipment for road maintenance
activities; equipment for training, traffic control, labora-
tories, workshops, and offices; and



- 18 -
(c)  construction or improvement of 500 km of feeder roads in
Rondonia and of 488 km in Mato Grosso to be carried out through
BNDE and preparation of further feeder road programs in Rondonia
and Mato Grosso in support of POLONOROESTE.
The bulk of the project is expected to be implemented over a four-year period
(1982-85).
Highway Construction and Operation (Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway)
53.       The Existing Road and its Condition.  The Cuiaba-Porto Velho high-
way, which is part of Brazil's interstate primary highway system, is the only
surface connection between the territory of Rondonia and eastern Brazil
(IBRD Map No. 15729). The condition of the road varies considerably accord-
ing to sections, but is generally poor. Heavy traffic and poor surface
drainage conditions have contributed to the deterioration of parts of the
highway to a point where normal maintenance is no longer possible. During the
rainy season, these poor sections may be cut off altogether, isolating much of
the northwest from the rest of Brazil for weeks at a time. Traffic varies
between 250 and 700 vehicles per day on the different road sections. More than
half of the vehicles are trucks, which take at least five days to complete the
1,500 km trip from Cuiaba to Porto Velho.
54.       The Proposed Highway Route and Standards.  The proposed highway route
follows most of the existing alignment, including that of a 214-km service road
currently being constructed by the army through the Guapore Valley to link the
existing earth roads. The army is also constructing the two end sections,
Cuiaba-Corrego Campinas (163 km) and Ariquemes-Porto Velho (192 km) according
to satisfactory designs. Work on these two end sections would be completed by
December 31, 1984 (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Detailed
engineering studies for the 1,084 km included for financing under this project
provide for satisfactory design standards which allow for strengthening of the
pavement as traffic service and volume evolve. For this purpose, traffic and
pavement conditions would be monitored along the entire highway (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Strengthening of Rondonia Highway Department.  The present organiza-
tion of DER-RO will not accommodate the increase in the workload predicted for
the next five years. By 1985, DER-RO would be responsible for the administra-
tion and maintenance of about 4,500 km of roads, most of which would have been
constructed or improved under the POLONOROESTE program. At present, DER-RO
poorly attends to some 1,065 km of roads. DER-RO's capabilities in road
planning, programming and design are weak and it lacks qualified personnel
with adequate knowledge of maintenance work. DER-RO has prepared a reorganiza-
tion plan designed to correct these deficiencies which would be implemented
with technical assistance support provided under the proposed project. This
plan aims at establishing, over a four-year period (a) an organizational
framework for carrying out highway operations effectively; (b) standard
procedures for road planning, budgeting and performance evaluation; (c) a
training system for DER-RO and municipal road personnel; (d) a system for
preparing and implementing maintenance programs for the territorial highways
and roads; and (e) an appropriate accounting and auditing system.



- 19 -
56.       DER-RO would establish no later than September 30, 1982 a task group
which, jointly with the consultant, would be responsible for detailing the
strengthening plan and assisting in its implementation. DER-RO's task group
would include at least five professionals: a senior highway engineer; a
senior highway maintenance engineer; a mechanical engineer; a training adviser;
and a municipal engineer. Also, DER-RO would create no later than September 30,
1982 a permanent training unit responsible for all training activities, aimed
at some 700 DER-RO and municipalities staff. The training unit would be
assisted by five technical assistance staff: a training adviser; the chief of
a road training production unit; and three instructors together with at least
five counterpart instructors (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement with
Rondonia). A condition of disbursement for the DER-RO strengthening component
would be that DER-RO has established the task group and training unit and
assigned five professionals and five training instructors as counterpart staff
to the project (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
57.       Some 370 new equipment units and 10,000 m2 of building facilities
would be provided to DER-RO for road maintenance purposes. DER-RO's work
force is expected to increase from 290 persons at present to about 500 by
1985. No later than June 30, 1982, DER-RO would submit to the Bank a plan of
action satisfactory to the Bank, for recruiting and retaining adequate and
qualified personnel (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement with Rondonia).
Fellowships for DER engineers and training instructors as well as training for
middle- and high-level staff would be financed under the proposed project.
58.       Feeder Roads Component.  About 1,530 km of feeder roads in Rondonia
and 1,350 km in Mato Grosso would be constructed under the POLONOROESTE program,
and carried out through the existing BNDE feeder roads financing mechanisms
which have been assisted by the Bank's Loan Nos. 1207-BR and 1730-BR. Funds
under the two ongoing Bank-financed feeder roads projects would be fully
committed by the end of 1981 and could not accommodate the feeder roads
programs in Rondonia and Mato Grosso in support of POLONOROESTE. The project
would help finance the construction or improvement of a first feeder roads
package of 500 km in Rondonia and of 488 km in Mato Grosso. The remaining
packages would be financed by BNDE with the possible assistance of the proposed
Bank third feeder roads loan scheduled for negotiation in 1982.
59.       The proposed feeder roads component would be administered according
to procedures and criteria set forth in the manual used by BNDE under Loan
1730-BR. The responsibility for the preparation and presentation of subloan
applications to BNDE would rest with the state of Mato Grosso and the territory
of Rondonia through DERMAT and DER-RO, respectively. Applications would be
supported by technical and economic studies. The federal government would
take all the necessary steps to ensure the timely preparation and financing
of the construction and subsequent maintenance of the feeder roads network
required for the purposes of the POLONOROESTE program (Sections 3.01 and
3.12(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$687 million
equivalent, of which about US$240 million would be foreign exchange equivalent.



- 20 -
A contingency of 15% has been added to the costs of highway construction works
and supervision to allow for increases in quantities. A quantity contingency
of 5% was used for all other items. Price contingencies equal 23% of base
costs and physical contingencies (May 1981 prices) were calculated in US
dollars.
61.       The total cost of the Corrego Campinas-Ariquemes highway construction
is estimated at about US$487 million equivalent, including supervision and
physical contingencies. These cost estimates are based on recently awarded
contracts. The average construction cost per km for all road sections in the
project is about US$449,000 equivalent, including supervision and physical
contingencies. Consulting services required to strengthen DER-RO's technical,
managerial, and training capabilities would have an average cost per man-month
of US$6,400 which includes the basic salary, social benefits and overhead.
The feeder roads are estimated to cost, including supervision and physical
contingencies, US$35,600 per km in Rondonia and US$40,000 per km in Mato
Grosso. This estimate is based on recent experience with similar projects.
A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
62.       The proposed loan of US$240 million would be equivalent to 35% of
the estimated total cost of the project and to 100% of the foreign exchange
component. Retroactive financing of up to US$10 million equivalent would be
permitted to help cover eligible expenditures incurred after October 1, 1981
for start-up activities, such as mobilization of contractors and supervision
Consultants. The federal government would contribute the equivalent of
US$430.4 million from the budget of the POLONOROESTE program and through
regular agency and territorial allocations, and BNDE would provide the equiv-
alent of US$16.6 million out of its operating budget (Section 2.01(a) of the
draft Project Agreement with BNDE). The federal government would ensure
that these counterpart funds as well as all facilities, services, and other
resources required for the purposes of the projec. would be provided in a
timely manner (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
63.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) highway construction -- 35% of total expenditures for civil works,
supervision of construction, and vehicles and equipment for highway patrol;
(b) supply and installation of weighing equipment, and equipment to monitor
pavement behavior -- 100% of foreign expenditures; (c) strengthening programa
for DER-RO -- 35% of total expenditures; and (d) feeder roads construction-
47% of reimbursable payments made by BNDE to beneficiaries under subloans.
Bank disbursements would initially be on the basis of 55% of total cost for
the DER-RO strengthening component. This rate would be applied until
Marclh 31, 1983. Thereafter, the percentage would be decreased so that the
average disbursement rate of 35% would be achieved. Higher initial disburse-
ments are justified by the need to expedite implementation of this key
institution-building component and by Brazil's exceptionally tight financial
situation, and by the anti-inflationary measures being taken by the government,
including a serious effort to contain public investment expenditures. All
disbursement applications would be fully documented, except for reimbursements
to BNDE which would be made under certificates of expenditures certified by
BNDE in accordance with the procedures in force for the ongoing feeder roads
projects.



- 21 -
64.       In order to reduce the interval during which the government would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the govern-
ment may request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from the loan
account into a special account to be opened in the Central Bank (Section
2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The government would be entitled to
make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the special account upon submission of
withdrawal applications to the Central Bank. Conversion from dollars into
cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date
the expenditures on the project were made. The Central Bank would forward
those withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the
special account. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1986.
DNER Revolving Fund
65.       DNER would establish a cruzeiro revolving fund for the specific
purpose of carrying out its obligations related to the highway construction.
The revolving fund would be replenished with contributions from the federal
government. DNER would open an account in a suitable bank (most likely Banco
Central do Brasil), and make an initial deposit into this account in the
amount of US$12 million equivalent. DNER would make regular deposits into the
revolving fund as required to ensure that there would be sufficient funds
available on the first day of each month to cover project costs during the
forthcoming month according to work and procurement schedules (Section 3.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Establishment of the revolving fund and DNER's
initial deposit would be a condition for disbursement of the proposed loan
funds for the highway construction.
Procurement
66.       The highway construction contracts for the Caceres-Ariquemes sections
(1,037 km) were awarded following international competitive bidding in accord-
ance to Bank guidelines. Tenders were received from 45 prequalified firms.
Evaluation of tenders and award recommendations have been reviewed by the Bank.
The 47-km highway section between Corrego Campinas and Caceres would be
tendered in December 1981 following similar international competitive bidding
procedures. Acquisition and installation of the weighing equipment (about
US$400,000) and the equipment to monitor pavement behavior (about US$200,000)
which are of a special proprietary nature would be procured directly from
established dealers in accordance with a purchase program satisfactory to the
Bank.
67.       Civil works contracts for DER-RO maintenance facilities would be
awarded following the Bank's procurement guidelines. Contracts of less than
US$1.5 million equivalent would be procured following local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory. The contracts would be too small
and scattered to attract foreign firms not already established in Brazil.
Work contracted under this procedure would not aggregate more than US$8
million.



- 22 -
68.       Vehicles and equipment for the highway patrol, and vehicles and
equipment for DER-RO's maintenance residences, laboratories, workshoDs, offices
and training facilities would be procured on the basis of initernational compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, contracts of less
than US$500,000, which would be too small to attract foreign firms not already
represented in Brazil, would be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory. Purchases contracted under this procedure
would not aggregate more than US$4 million.
69.       Contracts awarded for feeder roads would follow procedures in force
for the ongoing BNDE feeder road loans which call for local competitive bid-
ding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. It is expected that all
civil works for feeder roads would be contracted to local firms. The roads
would be of relatively low cost, and foreign firms not already established in
Brazil would not be interested.
Accounts and Audit
70.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audited statements cf
project accounts of the various participating agencies would be provlded to
the Bank through SUDECO within six months of the end of the POLONOROESTE fiscal
year. These reports would include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on
the methodology employed in the compilation of the statement of expenditures,
its accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, the quality of the records
and of the internal controls, and eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreements. The special account would be audited by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.08 and 4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
DNER accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year including the
revolving fund, would also be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank. Copies of the audited statements, including a statement of budgetary
execution would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of DNER's
fiscal year (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).  DER-RO wC-ld establish,
by January 1, 1983, adequate accounting procedures and, starting w.th Rondonia's
1983 fiscal year, have its accounts and financial statements audited annually
by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The report of such audits
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of Rondonia's fiscal
year (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement with Rondonia). Audit require-
ments for BNDE are satisfactorily covered under Section 3.02 of the draft
Project Agreement with BNDE.
Project Implementation
71.       Execution Responsibilities.  Execution of the project would be the
responsibility of the following agencies: (a) DNER would be executing agency
for the highway construction; its works directorate would supervise all civil
works; its transit directorate would supervise the installation of equipment
for the weighing station and the operation of the highway patrol's vehicles
and equipment; its planning directorate would supervise monitoring of pavement
behavior; (b) the Rondonia Secretariat of Public Works and Services (SOSP),
through DER-RO, would be executing agency for the program to strengthen



- 23 -
Rondonia's highway department; and (c) BNDE would be the executing agency for
the feeder roads construction program which would be carried out by DER-RO
and DERMAT.
72.       Consultancy Services.  About 420 man-months of consultancy services
would be required for the purposes of the DER-RO upgrading component. The
services of a firm specialized in highway administration and road maintenance,
and with experience in the development and implementation of training programs,
would be required. It is expected that local firms, assisted as needed by
foreign specialists, would be able to provide these services. The qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of these consultants
would be satisfactory to the Bank. Their selection would be in accordance
with Bank policies and procedures (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement
with Rondonia).
73.       Supervision of Highway Construction.  Arrangements for supervision
are similar to those adopted in previous highway projects. DNER would contract
the same consultants who carried out the detailed engineering to undertake
field supervision. This arrangement is satisfactory. DNER's directorate
of works would centrally coordinate activities. It would create a special
coordinating group, including an expert in civil works contract administration,
and a quality control, materials and pavement specialist. Supervision of the
installation of the weighing scale would be contracted with specialized
Brazilian consultants, all with qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment to be acceptable to the Bank. Their selection would
be in accordance with Bank policies and procedures (Sections 3.02 and 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       Future Highway Maintenance and Monitoring of Pavement Behavior.
Consistent with DNER's present policy, maintenance of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
highway would be carried out by contract under DNER's supervision. There
would be six maintenance residences along the highway, three of which would
be financed under the proposed project. Annual maintenance cost per km has
been estimated at about US$3,500 on the basis of preliminary maintenance
standards. The government would provide funds required for the proper main-
tenance of the highway (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). Pavement
behavior monitoring to provide information for timely execution of strengthen-
ing works would be carried out in 60 control sections distributed along the
highway. One weighing station would be required to provide good coverage of
heavy traffic along the highway. Vehicle dimension and axle load regulations
would be enforced (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). DNER's transit
directorate would be responsible for manning and operating the station and for
enforcement. These arrangements have been in effect in existing weighing
stations and are adequate.
Benefits and Justification
75.       Transport investments proposed under the POLONOROESTE program derive
their basic justification from the economic evaluation of the whole program.
An economic rate of return computation for the program indicates that the
program is economically justified, having an estimated internal rate of return,
computed over a 20-year period, higher than 50% (Annex IV paragraph 11).



- 24 -
76.       A separate evaluation of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway, which repre-
sents about half of the total investments for the POLONOROESTE program, has
been carried out. It has been assumed, for the purpose of this analysis, that
the other components are not implemented. This can then be seen to represent
the situation which would exist if, for some reason, only the highway and none
of the other components were built. It has been assumed for the purpose of this
analysis that investments in the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway would not generate
any traffic above and beyond that which would take place in its absence.
Savings in vehicle operating costs for existing traffic and its growth due
to the region's own development are the only benefits against the costs of
reconstructing and paving the road.  The "without project" case is defined as
maintaining the condition of the highway at about the same level as it is
today. The maintenance costs will increase by about 25% in the "with" as
compared to the "without" project case over the life of the project. The
maintenance costs in both cases are very small, however, in comparison to the
vehicle operating costs. The quantifiable benefits would thus be derived
entirely from a reduction in vehicle operating costs, which will decrease by
about 40% with the implementation of the project.
77.       The outcome of this analysis showed that for the eight highway
sections used for design purposes, the internal economic rate of return would
be between 49.8% and 23.5%, and the weighted average, for the highway as a
whole, would be about 30%. The economic rate of return is rather insensitive
to variations in both costs and benefits. It would fall to about 14% if the
benefits decreased by 50% at the same time as the construction costs increased
by 20%. A decrease in benefits by 20%, coupled with an increase of 50% in the
construction costs, would still leave the project with an 18% internal rate of
return. Thus, even with existing traffic alone, the flow of expected benefits
is large enough to justify the proposed highway upgrading, and reconstruction
investments which have been designed to withstand higher traffic volumes
expe-ted under the POLONOROESTE program.
78,       The strengthening of the Rondonia highway department is a pre-
requisite for the POLONOROESTE program. No separate economic assessment of
this component has been attempted. The economic evaluation for the feeder
roads, which are expected to have a minimum economic rate of return of 12%,
will be included in the feasibility studies submitted to and reviewed by
BNDE.
79.       The investments in the highway and feeder roads would primarily
result in reduced vehicle operating costs. Their impact would therefore be
first felt by the road transport industry. The high degree of competitive-
ness of this industry in Brazil would ensure that, in the medium to long run,
project benefits would be passed on to farmers and consumers in the region.
Since the major part of the population consists of relatively low-income
migrant settlers, the proposed project may be expected to have a positive
income-distribution effect.
Risks
80.       DNER's technical capacity and the competence of the road contract-
ing industry have been demonstrated previously. Therefore, the physical
implementation of the highway component of the project presents



- 25 -
no special risk. Measures provided under the project for upgrading the
capabilities of DER-RO are designed to help correct the deficiencies in the
road planning administration and maintenance system at the local level.
Increased risks to the POLONOROESTE program area's Amerindian population and
natural environment, as well as measures for dealing with them, are discussed
in paragraph 39.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Federal Territory
of Rondonia, BNDE, and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Effectiveness of the Loan and
Project Agreements for the proposed northwest region health project and
the agricultural development and environmental protection project would be
a condition of effectiveness of this proposed loan.
82.       Establishment of the revolving fund account and initial deposit of
an amount of US$12 million into that account would be a condition for disburse-
ment for the highway component (paragraph 65). A condition of disbursement
for DER-RO's strengthening component would be that DER-RO has established the
required task group and training unit and assigned the five professionals and
five instructors as counterpart staff to the project (paragraph 56).
83.       Failure by the Borrower, Rondonia, or BNDE to comply with any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Loan and Project Agreements for the northwest
region health project and the agricultural development and environmental
protection project would also constitute an event of default on the Loan and
Project Agreements for the proposed project, pursuant to the Bank's General
Conditions (draft Supplemental Letter No. 3).
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 9, 1981
Washington, D. C.



- 26 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
LAND) AKtEA (IhOUSAND SO. KH.                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
IUIAL            8512.0                                   MOSI RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
A6RICULTURAL    2077.2                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PEg CAP1IA (_S)                     321U.0       570.0    1780.0                     1616.2                     2609.1
EhERGY LCuNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIlOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       392.1        565.0    1061.5                     1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATEOh, MiD-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.U        95322.0  116539.0
UR8AN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1           55.9       64.1                      64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PRKJJECIIUNS
PUPULAIlUN A   YEAR 2U00 (MILLIONS)                        176.5
STAIlONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           281.0
YEAR STAlIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                          8.4         11.2       13.7                      34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       44.1         50.5       55.1                      94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6         42.7       41.5                      40.7                       30.1
15-b4 YRS.                           53.8         54.3       55.1                      55.3                       61.5
6 YIRS. AND A8GVE                     2.6          3.0        3.4                       4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                                3.0          2.9        2.2                       2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                5.5          4.8        3.8                       3.7                        3.1
CKUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.5         37.0       29.4                      31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        12.9         10.5       8.7                       8.4                        9.1
GRDSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          2.6        2.0                       2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACLEPlORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       111.0      203.6
USERS (PERCENT OPE MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.6
PiOOD AND NUTRUTION
LNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0        102.0      114.0                     108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
cALORIES (PERCENT OF
tEqUIREtENTS)                    101.0        104.0      107.2                     107.6                      125.7
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            61.0         62.0       62.7                      65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         34.0         34.0       35.1                      34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURTALITY RATE       17.3          12.0       8.3                       7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7           59.1       62.7                      64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            128.0           ..       92.0                      70.9                       25.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POUPULATIO N)                                                                           6
TOIAL                                 ..         56.3       77.1                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..         77.7       88.8                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..         29.0       56.8                      43.9
ALCESS IO EXCRETA DLSPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULAIION)
IuTAL                                 ..         59.9       64.8                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..         86.1       83.7                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..         26.5       31.7                      30.4
PIOPJLATION PER PHYSIC7AN           2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                     1728.2                      973.3
POPULATIUN PER NURSING eERSON       2772.1       2992.3         ..                    1288.2                      896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              307.0        269.0      247.7                     471.2                      262.3
UABAN                              325.6        322.6         ..                     558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         18.0         ..                        ..                       18.2
HoUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
IOTAL                                5.1          4.8        4.9
URBAN                                 ..          4.6        4.7
UKRAL                                 ..          5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NUUMER UF PERSONS PER ROOM
EOlAL                                 ..          1.1
URBAN                                             1.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELPCIRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TITAL                               38.7         47.6       63.0
URPAS                                 ..         75. 6      84.9
RURAL                                 ..          8.4       19.2



-  27  -                                      ANNEX  I
Page  2  of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0       125.0      88.0/c                  101.7                    105.9
MALE                 97.0       125.0      87.0o7                  103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               93.0       125.0      88.07d                  101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        26.0      24.0/c                   35.3                     66.3
MALE                 11.0        26.0      22.d7-                   34.9                     73.2
FEMALE               10.0        26.0      26.071                   35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 19.0         17.0      47.0/c,d                 30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        28.0      22.0/e                   29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0      13.071                   15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.2       75.7                    80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        24.4      53.6                     42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.4       123.8    155.0                     215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        16.8        64.0      97.9                     89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        37.0      45.2                     62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9       1.9                      3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22869.1      30078.5  36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.5        20.4      22.6                     22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6      39.8                     35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3      21.8                     23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5                     31.8                     42.3
MALE                                52.7        50.3      48.9                     49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                              11.2        12.8      14.2                     14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.4       1.4                      1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..     150.0                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..    465.0                     513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     332.0                   362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                       ..                       .
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
May, 1981



- 28--                                                               ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORSPa e                                                             3 o
Naee    lttah::   on  dth a d dr .o.c.co e  Neatalyfdged the mac    th-i-r-aoesd   hecote aetod also  be oared tara  they eac.   b  
nbtolyoa ale  heasoe  of the lack at attadfasdi.defno aad --roepr  -cd by diff--teon                      _nen_esoonol deoefng the data.  The date to,Cot
aah efa.. t. aeeoonb1    odrof _,,nfjaode'w             - .. rSce trnd,  ndob .ate.e oi enfet  alo  aoffeecettenortte
OherefeInent.a.  ....y:.
nfotajectaaaetop  (anec  far  'Captal trpor  051faponers    onaphere  NOdde Incne fnortAfnoE a.dt.d...Cas..t  bthe.teo..ng.
eaaaOttoeftoiocl. In seneettaa  capdata the               ....ge  a.e  -oaltoeghted aohso    ersIcec   ccot   t   hnoyat
fta-  l..ta.s.nn-eotoee-a oaeonlsod   oeasl Sn9tnsat dt --                                          hata,l      ..d....nnde   hottotcolcatn                       a,oa
t-le-d by ese  doneec   claatOodSr   ts   11-9hse;lf,                                               and sedol-cnte  oar              ..te .enlyetfe  byaoyaon(trI
1970, atd 19t9 deos.                                                                                eoclneeat,oce    asf    r   atbc   feo-.rcoooo
ENENCY CONSUHTISON PtN CAPITA                                                                                           -b- II.,npen   fonnell   ney  ts  lclfeosssa    h i,ttl   Soc- Sane WNeH aotaCeco    oslto
data.                                                                         odateslone ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,  p ii-oetaltd    -Ite  nottdofscresn- to  to Codo
POPULATIONl AOD VITAL STATISTICS                                                                                       dlddb   h    .l   tbd
T-t1 PereSr.Nd-Ieerjfpaasa..dn) - At of Jajy 5, 1960, 197C, and 1979                            HOUSINC
Soad  atraSnIpceaf  aa)-taa   faea   otos.ot.aSt                                                     hese fl cHn...t  of ad  -en            h of ..dtldals      hn   ano-cte
Porlaton  eonott ..                                                                        nnrafra  o-erb-               a  tr          dR0.9.ia otr  en   col    ooeoe
FroatafaertO-aoen   anloaoolctasaehseordfbea   pnaettoannalohnsneoa odpJconnocs
scaD     opl.1nh          gdadsradtet-          crltytO  et lt   aec                              eliae    ostClol. laetateacSoa   crpnaenenototo
Pealetlot  araceene  oe matol Sy rats ortnhteof Shet leeleacac-  toaccplnd  orts
tatlf  epcsoys   oc  acesngftonnty    e  cpn   nts                            oten   lonltojeCta bdeliacl-ftl9    cInao   ca 
leel  adfeal   tS  eFntnn   taaletgat7.5yer .Th   en-                              onesnna1dellno  tf   leftcorSnlttt  ootona
healaony -platat-aoeesnepaccbiht    angotaoe                                                 cacahc-hna    cladlcl-bootre
thhcCdaesrolofedstno,   naeohraaeoreo-too.tetfl  aea...a...nra    enrrsga(nrcon
ty     l Iacteedolyate.e.Sfe.agedeol-o   coiaystc-g   onafc;oeal aJcl...h.d.o..                                                                        ge. h-
ttE- th     cenoen-o--trrnFedtenoae.heeohsocaningesshoejorelndflnntItahelpnsnntdcoaoao
Saheyeool,,hldlI Ol l                                                 -, arteaandoletfctl-ottoslc-S      -tdrrhao-oe.eeofti-oprdthn;eal
sest  en.                                                                                dnctbcnqroestteas  ra fear1l apondpboo rsncl;
aee  ca ooenponanin  i   eete  -Te  ea   be  setcae   ppnarao          crlesseeot.  ontonl  ortohe  taatea  atteCtno   onpaa
Ptor...srtalt.olltd-ttpaeoeaao   faagaoarnallonet.y.a...stne....ecad.r-actaoton
a  -df lIN, 197hen  197.  defa            -n-_l-.P.hee  ot                                                                I -  r ...   ~ an   eoo_p- aa   stdot      ote
Foplefo  as,ngacor ad Iret )-   Cilre  (0-ic  Yea f ts) l     tknaat     1                     pelasa  and     il teoadar  tet,.d..e   b  o      baaoosoaelot
lestana  1960, 190, esa 1919 lets  - Th-1 tenonore  ce-eo.1.-.fgnetedarI o. t.t  et
taaolstlar icrerrabRate toeccearf-oot-   q- ant l g..et- reet of tonl) nsa                 -lreonnteftoslsti  rrtlt a  ae-1
forolat io  ieranb gae feteted  -aches.-   As-llgrond rnt-o aninpr-. OihO1dI
Senlone far 1950-SN, 1950-75, and 1970 . -79.    ..._I_   I                                  l Pssae    e.(y  taen    Calnon       stetec
prpaYlebtao;  19h0, - 1970, td 1979 daI a  er   efl
Craeltta  It_lt...scrd-..  A Ctaa   eth eiarsl ld_-._,y_ea_eI_                              talbaget-h--rees          P           ,   _nrtosannsInl-hlyrntcleefno
popoi-thn   190,190  end 197  data.broareen  tod genera   pahlo  enraad  of Iocyfar--n                                                                             - eon bOa   o
nI  iyoce)  tatl  fPo-epaacc   rlgS   99   90   n   99                                   atonttsaobhdIorig
Gsal       h lao-l_s-i1o-hogndt  Aita-y(Ibraaeaad-l-Aoalabeo   tetr                        T   eeor    erccne Li, .... .l-                     1, necanen   farba-dasrd
ofrtf-tnnl  ttoetdpacsaeo  nrostaelploiorota.                                         eaainhtnrnaoadpplnsn;slaaanaetaOlcceoo
P_eatin       i. ftotn-.er 195noa0r of6  70cae Ioe)-Peetg    rttldS   anoed                                          lSfersat  nel         epat a  anI       yaSl-   Oeyn
coe -a  h ldbeaia  age.t (1-a  -eere c-       c -'..I -no-eh   S A-b-ne F.,--             heacNSUMTOrN Coaain(           hnsdoela)-Soatea reat
fl.cnce  195nen6DIn16seat age     90-          Pro.p.o.latot o   daal  goerl a nd                                              ens       nece... ag defc-   sanfO
C-d. Bi-h ~1.  b..... d)  -1 II--- bi~~h.  -   h.....sdcoiiddt-or"Iphltaislaoo.e.a.df Ilglgenerefo-ca.  htl--oande
FC_ afo9TItp                                                                                          ch   tifaS   tsosrs   rcloa   necek
Inden of Ford 6En"odntopeCptslh9ll*0l-Idrn.e e1thoal                                            Crt.nnbAtednacclat   a   ra-ar   ntenee    
naltfYa.a        . aneag Ipnaoe  poInt, -et-hoe   19d51-9i 1970, an  919  aa.Itl  aa --oce abtoitatdt -1.. J.nR.c                             ycta   esn    nlto
pendao    Aooel   ay  a   aplednctopoacSn    ahc etotcnne  i   OO   90sdtO   aa
~aatatesace  a  fod   ntctaog,an  -oce  anlh danlaio    eap-                      droatotJrcnl     ,hobo   a   aon.Irt                             a-tI
ren ts  ec  t                                                                                 Nt-dbPFTbsd  npyflola   eesInnrclae-  ttoa   tecLteofagrof: tota lata  Soa lf91  1900 an W0  t
F-  DNUTRITsOd brlonrarattoorrna   erctr   oyoiha   t                                            ndet    eoo)-itnfrea   tft   a.rncf0   aaaorn
sod..I  Fed dPt_foo  t   o_i       tocIndclnigI  pereo   fo-rrabca  aleootory-  , nnoann,c   rcenn   Srt    ao   a    
haoetod  lntl  11-l, lOian  197ota                                                       90  n   97-aa
na Iapy  ffod    pedy                                                                                           ..sp. a   ooScdfndacam.R...tttrttrcoptdaetcl  cf,a...aolto   a    o
onarameots fop all a anoarSes ectaitiIhed  CyOO   nodefneta                           ecnae  of,k    totl.cranfeaeopctnofelartrpe O a
aotAoo Samel1t-g-.19P- ed-tI 1977 data.
Pe_nfaa  oae    - Pa rel   fet  anea   6odrate-BaecRcpFOofRooCd
rh- d facatlal  end pa, _ lce  Se  os   e   al  91N,11In  Sf11  ete.                         hC0N   L.b- Fr-lE-tItj
Otad  ass  -I nrtlhn  at  lechoecdl-  aotldethspathacnlan                       Ptcn.to'                            0   nta   a l.o    O,d..,
sNetpldaoeroflnnntlaa    caafootdolpSgatn                                          aces.  ncr  yoartyattl  )rro,ndanrttpnn-
ofaga,croacdloheb.                                                                                to    tpoatincaeoltaranalneblahIlsrio
lacestsa5afebsteoltaoooaoafoaoaalarhaof-totbel  a19rbanandoadsa9l-Not-
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otftnlysent itplseaoflnnfo  t-nc-' c
d"ore'P"'ne,eso    odaalan   oeeoald  "oeaoba.',ooace
ase  epl  (yl.asooodaofccSrtnosetr    a  aoctetcod                                   Itccr    alto_dnrf   tne e_l)S,,ypalt)                            noaadta 
eaatcssbaoayoecehrhls,aooao   asreali(sOaerYcaroafynaeee   IncIan
nottloepataepoalnoo .Innobn   tcafll ynhnl.  tons  onph-                                   cn a--.(lO        no  ln
d-oabaaaatt.-- npoa-ha   .orOo    foadyafobo    t
co  ntr-rta  by reted-h-taaa eyent n  the ac   df ott dpetnase sod cOal                                                        hacata  tn lrn,n.               -
yoifIon ....  .h 6t1an  P_ypof atfa d....        ty.aba    of .  ..nloo  pihodal-                               l   11   .- Tl.              .l  -L'   .i'"iI                  '
-d.n-atIIan  pet-t       h...o Pecaa      75p.lc tan dtl-e  byoaero   os
Pca   odfml  5s;n o9'iII-a  .    dcoa 7t _ce   -d yateec      tl.and



- 29 -
P ag3e 4 ot S 
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Populat-on     : 122.9 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,687 (1979)
Amount                 Average Annual I-nresur (X)                  Sharr of GDP at Market Prices (2)
Indicator                   (Mililon USS Corrent)           (a: Constant 1970 Privet)                          (at Crreont Prices)
1979              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85        1970     197S      199       1980  b      1985
National Aonntrs
Crs Domestit  Product Is                   204,476                7.7       10.6       6.9        5.4       100.0    100.0    100.0       IoO.o      100.0
Agricolture                               19,314                1.9        5.7       4.7        4.2         8.2       8.7      9.4        9.9        9.4
Indnutry                                  65,084                9.2       11.6       7.6       5.5         29.1      32.6     31.8       31.t       31.8
Serv-icn                                  86,970                8.0       10.7       6.8        5.)        43.0      41.3     42.5       42.6       42.5
Consumption                                163,334                7.7        9.8       5.7       4.9         76.9      78.6      79.8      79.0       76.3
Gross Investment                            46,176                9.4       14.b       5.2        5.4        23.5      25.4      22.6       22.t      22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                    16,714                8.2       11.2       7.3      10.1          6.6       7.4      8.2         7.8       9.7
Imporc-  of Goods and NFS                   21,748               14.5       17.2       2.8       4.9          7.0      11.4     10.6        9.4        8.9
Gr-ss 0-omsti  Savings                     41,142                7.9       12.9       6.1       6.2         23.1      21.4      20.2      21.0       23.7
A"oont /c                A-erage A.noal Increase (X)                 Cospusu.ion otf en-ihadi-e rrado (7)
(billion IS) Corrent)           (at Constant 1970 Prices)                          (at Corrot Privet)
1980          -  1965-70          1970-75         1975-80      1966         L970         1975        19_ L0b
Itor-nandise Tlrde
M,erchavdise Reports                        20,132                7.8            11.9             5.6       102.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Prim-ry                                    9,412                7.3            8.3             1.1         87.9         75.1         61.8          46.8
Pfanafact-reu                             10.720                7.9           28.2            .2 2         17.1         24.9         38.2          53.2
Me-chandise Inports                         22,961               10.0           17.6            -1.4        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Fond                                       1,239               -3.8           -6.7            17.5         11.5          4.5          3.0           5.4
Petroleum                                 10,210                9.3            7.6             4.3         14.7         11.2         24.5          44.5
Uachlnerp and Equipment                    4,392               22.1           15.2            -7.5         15.2         21.2         14.0          19.1
Other                                      7,120                8.3           28.4            -1.9         59.6         63.1         58.5          31.0
1975       1976         1977          192-         1979         1980/CR
Price and Tenon of Trade
GDP Deflato- (1970-100)                     289.6       410.9        584.2         809.2      1,229.6       2,469.5
inchioge Rate (Cr7/UON)                       8.1        10.6         14.1          18.1          26.9         53.5
Expor-t  ricn Ilden (1970-.Oo)             D76.0        192.0        226.0         228.0         266.0        290.0
Import Price lnd.. (1970-100)               242.0      255.0        286.0         317.D         389.0         431.0
Teeny of Trade Indes (1970-100)              72.0        75.0         79.3          72.0          68.0         67.0
A. X of GDP
(at Curreni Proven)
190        1975         1979 /b
Poblic Finasce (Cen-tal Government)
Current Revenue                              16.6        19.8         20.5
C,urrent Expendit-re                         14.4        15.8         17.6
Surplus (4) nr defivit (-)                    2.2         4.0          3.2
Cspital Expenditure                           2.6         3.8          3.7
FPianclng (Net)                              -0.4         0.2         -0.6
1965-70    1970-75      1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Gro_th Rate (2)                           7.7        10.7          5.8
2NF per Cup ita Grvth Rate (X)                4.6         7.7          3.0
Euergy C-onoaptiom G-euth Rate (X)            7.2         7.3          6.5
IGOR                                          2.9         3.0          3.9
9s gi-al Savings Rats                        20.5        25.7         22.7
Import Elasticity                             2.2         1.6          0.3
L.   At  onket prices;  -o.pone.ts are net do-estic products repressed st favton  cyst rnd mill nut add doe to exclumlon of depreciation and
indirect tanee less subsidie-.
/b   Estimate.
c   P-relimiurvy.
October 6. 1981



- 30 
Page   5 of 5
BAACE OP PAYMENTS, 00ER0N4L CAPITA   AND DEST
(.1Ill.. US$  t  or   tPrices)
Po pol-atln         122.9 million  (i-1979)
GU, Per Capita    2S$1,687 (I 979).
~~q                             ~~ACTUAL.                                                                          PROJECTED
170          1975   --     1976          1977          1978          1979         1990I891                              192            1i(i
Net exports of goods end seiors                        -583        -6,702        -6,018        -4,037        -5,999        -9,774        -12,529               -11,789        -11,421        -9 ,8974     -7,155
Exports of goods                                  (2.759)1     7 8,670))    (iOl,28         (12,I20)      (12,659)      115,244)      (20,132)                24,620        29,431         35,195        42,2 44
impurt   of goods                                 (2,507)    (12210)          i2,383)      (12,023)       (13,683)      (17,951)      (22,961)                20,032        20.570        31,137         33,03u
Net factor Incou                                     -350       -1,733        -2,189         -2,559        -3,257        -4,717        -7,300                - 05347       -10,031       -11,03b       -17,802
(o"oI   c  itr.. paymo.ts                         -284)      (-1,499)      (-1.809)      (-2,103)      (-2,694)       (-4,1f6)      (-6,511)             5-6,979)    7-8,673)   (-i(3,i92)   (-11,490)
Net oor-facOnP services                ~~~~~-495   -1,429        -1,574        -1,576         -1.718        -2,327        -2,200                -2,030        -2,251        -2,495        -2,626
Net tranefers                              22             2             1          -                72            17           150                     41            30            50            so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  21    1  14~
Cu-reot acon_aac                                        5 62       -6,700        -6,017        -4.037        -5,927        -9,757       -12,179                -11,749       -11.311       -5,2             7,124
DItroc  privateI invetmen  lb                            92           892           959             10           906         2,200         1,202                  1,736         1,967         2,226         2,513-
MALT Inse,co                                            767)        3,760         5,023)        4,651)         8,81          4,995)        5,451                 11,991        11,595        10,370         7,910o
Ttadiona    cac                                        33)        1,408)        2.052)        2,648       12,793)        1 2738)        2,801)              73,694)    )  3,940)    7  4:,1737)   1  4.0651
Fins..ciol crdits                                     566)        4 ,526)    7. 5960)         6,118)      (11,312)        R ,808)       9.570)               1 1,46)      16,151)    75 1595             I54,454
Aaaortioatinn                        ( ~~~~~~    ~~~-632)  (-2,172)  (-3,009)  ("4,133       7-5,286)      (-6, 531)     (-7,000')            7- 7,449)    8-,514)    (-9,321)           (Inc
rS ..Illa   loon. .br-d (net)                                  -      i-97         -248          -2 67          -359          -596           5468              -  ,02        - 1,442       - 1,918        - 92,51
Oth bo  cpitol  -.ei.                                   248         1,295         2,3627         -507            A40          - 64         1,459----
Chasgo In  eere   -ioss)I                              -545           950        -2,44           -630        -300            329           349- .97                          - 759         - 755          - 79
Icotrn-i-cl OR.or-es /0                               1,142         4,036         6,544         7,256        11,026          9,688         6,911                  7,00          6. ,54 7      9,301        13,0909
ioR...-.  as srths  of isprrt  Ic                       5.5           3.9           6.3            7.2          10.4           6.5           3.6                    3.0           36t           3.06          3.4
1974                                                        109       -1980~~~~07148
1974    -    1975  0__976         _19 77         _/s 197           9 --        1500
Iosiet   coadicg and dlincard                            17,576        23,200         28,344        34,440        46,309        50.956        56.407/f
Public pn pblip gcaract--d                                        9,394        13,608        17,211        21,434        30,157        353,092          -
Offiolslsnu..                                                  3,276         5,911         4,393          4,693         5,354         5,801          -
1800                                                           871)       (1,095)       (1,217)       (1,413        (161)           1,27)
Oob-                                                       (2,45)        (2,810)       (3176)        (3,280)       (3,72)        (3,974)          -
Prlvatrenocce                                  ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~      ~~6,118  9,697  2,81  26,741  24,803        7929I
Pci-ato cc-gcarst-d                                              8,182          9,592        11,.100       13,116        16,152        15,64            -
Undisbur-d debt (poblic only)                                       2,524         3,761         6,617         8,290        10,065         12,429          -
Tonal g       ds.fibcroesent. o 11 154    oe                        7,254         6,912         8,076         8,242        74,927         12,181          -
nbil  sdpblIl  goaated2,837                                                    3,717         4,837         5,380        10,133         8, 760          -
Otfinial  _oP.ot crdits                                          406            399           393           100           466           399 
1801                                                             247           2958           173           299           275           301          -
Other sntlt,l18                                                                 119           117,           92           1.36          207          -
source                                                    2.143          2,958         4,160         4,809         9,256         7,853           -
Private coo-guarnted                                             6,317          3,195         3,239         3,962         4,194         3,421           -
Debt Service
Toa  dstsriepyeo                                                  3,290)        3,6~70        4.797         6,163.        8,017        10,485        12,986
Interest  (coo)                                 (~~~~~~~~~~~~1,378)  (1,498)  (1,009)     (2,103)       (2,6947        (4,1041       (6,004)
Po.oo  as If rEports & WSO                                           38.8          32.6          43.0           46.2          57.2          62.7          61.0
P.yen-  as 17 of GNP                                                  3.1           2.8           3.3            3.7           6.2           5.1           5.7
Arerage ineet  .ter  os  asgcrsteed loans (I) /a                     10.6           8.              .6           8.3           9.9          11.2          -
Off'Icielococ                                                       7.0           8.0'          7.9           8.2            7.5           9.           -
Acera,, satoity of  -s  gos-acisd loans                              10.9           9.0          11.2            9.9          20.0          11.5          -
Official  ..rt                                                     14.6          18.           16.3          16.4          14.4           14.1          -
Privat   so-rn                                                      9.            6.89          9.2           8.7            9.A          1I.1I
18R1 10/oltal D0D (1)                                                 5.0           4.7           4.             4.1           3.5            , 
180disnsset/otlgn ddisursneRs  2)                                     3.4           3.6           2.1            3.            1.8           2.3     
1IS db    erieotldeiario  0                                            ,             .            2.7            3.2           2.6           2.           -
do I of t.tal debt nut-tadit
nt end nf lrc-b-  1979
loot Strucoturr
Marait  srutuo   f debt  --ttadi0
Ootriir  du6lhr       er                                                                       6.3
auiisdue:  it IcD 10  ear                                                               92.6
UaOtimate.
/b   E-cading  e-ic-estd p-nfits,
/c   fE.iudiog dollar  -alu-iocdjus-oc-  ad              .. snctl..i..n ocrti  gn1d,
Id   Onclndio  gol-d acd dnlia-  -alu-iocod)o ste
/r   inuda 0017.
/0   lorsilsuoalbr
/A    Public dsbt only.
Octobor 6, 1991



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           9.0
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          19.6
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5          10.3
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           6.0
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          21.5
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          22.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          25.2
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0            5.7
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0           16.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             8.4
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0           33.9
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0           16.6
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power               50.0            5.5
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           5.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply        40.0            3.2
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       83.0           70.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power               82.0           20.0
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            13.1
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          64.0           32.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer          55.0            2.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education           32.0          23.5
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          83.3
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            20.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power              130.0          86.8
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads              114.0          94.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals      85.0          20.3
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            49.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            80.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbt:rsed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   37.0
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               7/.2
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0                95,5
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum             98.0           4'
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0             24
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0             67.0
1721    1979  COPEL                             Power               109.0           95.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0             36.3
1729    1979  Brazil                            Irrigation           28.0           20.8
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0          108.1
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                       Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                              Power               114.0          114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0            158.',
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             139.0         139.0
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0           31.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0             62.5
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                         Power                125.0         125.0
1924    1981  Brazil                            Rural Development   56.0            55.6
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                        Power                54.0           54.0
1965 /1 1981  EBTU                              Urban Transport      90.0           90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0          180.0
1989 /1 1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0          250.0
2015 /1 1981  Brazil                            Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016 _1 1981  Brazil                            Agriculture           60.0          60.0
Total                                               5,995.6 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  788.4
Total now outstanding                               5,207.2
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             44.9             0.9
Total now held by Bank                              5,206.3



H   H    a'  at   H   'a        'a  'a  a   'a  'ft  'a  'a   a   'a  'a  'a   H      'a'aa'aaa'atta                        a   'a  'a  'a   a   'a   a   af  ct  a   a   'a   a
a   a         a         a   a   'a   a   a   'a  a   a   a   a   -   -.  'a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   a   ft   0   a   -   a   a   a'  0   a                 a   a
aaaaaaaf-'taaaaaaa a  a  a a 'a a 'a-                                                                                                                                            ft
a a a aaa'at'-aa    ama. a a a a   aaaaa                                                                       . 4 4 'aaaaa  'a 0 a a -   a a
a a           aaaaaaa    I a a a  'a-'ataaa  a a a a  ft a a  a  'a a  'a a  a a    'a 'a 'a   a-
a a a Cf a a 'a a   a Ca 2a. a   a a   aaaaaaa   a a'aaa-aa    a a a a   a a
ff      a   a   0   a   'a   a   a   a   a   a   a   0   ft  a   a   a   a   a   a   t   a   a   a
a   a    a   a          a   a        a   a   a   aaa    0   a           a   'a       a                -            a   a                      a        a   a   a   'a       'a
a.            a         a   a   'a   a       a      a      a       a   0        a'       a   at  'a.  a   a   'a  a   a   i          a        a   at  a        a   a         a   'a-
a                 a   a   a   'a  aa'a           a   -                 a   a   a   a   a   a   a              a   a   a   -   a   a   a   to          a   'a  -   a
a   -    a   a          a       a   a        a   'aaa          a   a-  a   'a        a   a   a                 a   a   a.        -   a   a   -   a   a   a   'a   a   a
a   a    a              a       a   a   a   a   a.a.a   C   a   a   a   ft  a   a-  a.  a   H   'a  a   a   -   a   i                a   a        a   a   a   a   a   a   a   am
a   a    a-  a          a       a   a   a   'a  ta-a   a   a   a   a.  a   t  a   a   'a   a   a   ft              a   a   a         a   'a       a        a   a   a.  a   a   a
a  a  'a 'a             a       a        a        'faa. a    at  a  a                a  a  a  a. a  a  a 'a  a  aa'aa'aaa                                               ft       a
a   a         a                ft   a   a   a   a   'a  a         a   H   a-'          ft   a   ft  ft   a   ft  'a  'a        a   'a            a   a   a.  a          a
a    -   a         a        a   a   a   a.  'a'a      a   a   a   a   'a  ft   a         -        ft   a   ft  'a  a'   a   a.  a   a         ta       -        a   a   a
'a        a        a        a   a        'a     a     a   a   a   a         a    f  -   a.  a-a-a                  a   a   a              f  a   '   a   a   am  a.  a   a
a.            -        -a   -   ft  -   ft  'a   a              a   a        'a  'a  a         -   a   a   a         a        -        a   a   a   'a
'a a 'a at 'a a  a a a 'a    a aaa-aa
'a        a        a            a        a      a'a   a    a   a        a       ft       a   'a   -   'a   a   'a-    'a        'a-      ft   a        a.  a    a   am  a
'a  a   'aa'a   -         '   a   a   'a  a         a   'a       a   a   a   a   a.  a   C   a   a.  a            -   a   a   a   a   a.        0
a             a            a            'aaa         a        a   a   a   a         a            a.      a   a   H         ft       a   Lt            a        a   a   a
'a    a            a             'a      ft'af'aa                       aaa.             a'-               'a  ft   a   a   a   a         -  '                  -   -   'a  'a
a             a            'a           -        a   a            ft  ft  ft        a            'at  a   a       a    a            'a                             a    a       a
a    a                                   'a       a   a   a             a   a            a.  a        'a  a.  a   a.  -  a   a               a            a   'a  a   'a   a
ft                    a       a        a                a   a                      a       a   'a  a   a   ft         a   a             a    f  a         a       ft
a             a            a       'a   f   a                              a.                    a   'a       a        a   'a       a    -            'a  a             a-
a            'a           a.       ft       a        a                a.  a                      aq       t  a   a.       'a        a                 a                a       a         a
'a                         'a       afta              -                ft   a                    aa           a   a         a        a                a.  a             a.
a             f                    'a   a   a                              a                         a   a   a             a        a                -   a.             a
a                                  aft                       'a'a            a    a    a
a             a                    a0               "               -                                          'a    a    a
a             a                     a   'a                            a.  a                      a        'a
a       a                         a   '                      a       'a                         a.               'a   a                              I
H                              H
a                                                                                                'a                                 a                      a                             'a
a'a'a'aaCafla' 'a a a a a a H H 'a oata'atoa to a 'a 'a 'a 'a 'a 'a 'a to 'a 'a 'a a
a   a   a   a'  a   a   a   a   'a  ft   aaaaftft                    a   a   ftaaaaaa                        ft  ft  ft  ft  'a   a   ft  ft   a   a   a   a
a a a a a ft a a a a a a a Oaaaaaaa  'a a 'a aftaaaaaaaaaa  a
a      a   a   a   'a  'a   a   'a  C-  ftaaaaaaaaft'at'-                                      a   a   'a   a   ft  a   a  'a  'a  'a  'a  'a  'a  'a  ft
a-      -taaaa-                    t  'a  ft        a        a   a   ft   a   a   a   a   a   a   a          a   a   ft   a        a        a   a   a         a
a   a        ft   a   a   a   a   'a   f        a  a   a   aa-ftaaaa                        a       a        a   a   a   a   a              a        a   a   a        H         a
a   a   a   a   a   'a   a   -                          a   a   a   a         a   a         -                aaaaa                               a   a   a   a        'a
a   a.ftaaaa                  a.  a           'a      a.  a   a   ft  'a  'a   a   'a                      a   a   a   a   a.                  a   a   a.  a        'a        a
a       a.  a   a   a   a              a.  a                         'a   a        a   a   a                 a   a   a   'a                      a   a        a       a         a
'a           a            a        ft   a   a       a            a   a             a   'a                -   a   a   a   'a                  a   a   'a   a                 a
a   a   a   'a   a   a   a   a             a   a        a            a   a         a                         a   a   a   a   a                   a        a           ft        a
a   ft   a   a       a   a   a         'a   a   ft      a            a   a-        a      -                a   a   a        'a                 a   'a  'a   a                 a
a.  a.    'a  a-     a.   a.  a        'a  a    -       'a           a            a.    'a  'a               -    a   a        ft                a   a   a    'a
'a      ft   a   a        a-           a                     a                 a   a   a        a                 a   a   a   a         
'a  'a   a   'a      'a  'a            a                a                          a   a                                                             a        a       'a        a
ft  ft  'a   a       a    ft           a                a                          a   a   'a                                                        a        'a      'a        'a
a   ft   a   a       a   a             a                a                          a.  a.  a                                                                  a        a
a   a        a       a    a            a                                          ft        a                                                                 ft       'a
a   a   'a  a        a   a             a                'a                         a   a   a                                                                  a       a         a
a   a   a   'a       'a   a                             a                          a   a  .a
'a  a    -   a-   'a  'a        'a  a        'a  a   a   a   'a  'a  a   a   a   'a  'a  a   a   'a   a   'a  a   'a  a   'a  a   'a  a   'a  'a   a   'a  'a  'a  a   a                 a
I
- f ''fff'f-ff'f''f---'--ffffft a'a   a
a   a    'a  'a    a   a   a   a   'a  a   'a         a        'a                                         'a        a   a        'a  'a  a   'a  'a  'a
'a  'a        .  'a   a   'a  a   'a  a   'a         'a       a                              'a           a        a   'a       a   a   a   a   a   'a                                 'aaa
'a 'a 'a 'a a 'a a 'a a 'a'a'a'a'aa'aa  a 'a 'a 'a 'a-a  aaaaa'a  a a aaaftaa'aaaa   a
a   a    a   a  I 'a  'at  C   'a  a   a   'a  a   'a  a   a   a   'a  a   'a  a   'a             a   'aPC a'aa                  a   a   a.        'aa'a'aaa                 a   a       a



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1981 1/
As of September 30, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two are expected to be com-
missioned by year-end 1981. A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast
due mainly to a substantial increase in the size of the transmission
works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Thirty-four of the 46 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Proposals for some expansion
and minor modification of project components and a postponement of
the closing date are being processed.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
execution of the items financed by the Bank will be completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
by the end of 1981.  RFFSA's financial and operating performance
has been good during the first five months of 1981, due to continued
tariff increases and a decrease of about 10% (in real terms) of
operating costs. The loan amount has been fully committed.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds
for 1981 have been provided recently and works are being reactivated.
The 73 stations are now expected to be completed by 1984. The Loan
Closing date will be postponed accordingly.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Implementation of the Stage III project is
scheduled to be completed by December 1982. Achievement of this
objective, however, will require substantial resources in 1982 in
the form of new equity contributions from SIDERBRAS as well as the
raising of new external loans. In light of the shortfalls in the
level of SIDERBRAS' equity contributions in the past and the
company's already strained financial position (in terms of excessive
levels of long and short term debt), raising the necessary resources
may be difficult to achieve, with consequent further delays in the
Stage III project. This situation has been discussed with the
Government, SIDERBRAS, and COSIPA during meetings in Washington in
September 1981. At that time, it was agreed that a plan of action
would be submitted to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify
the steps to be taken to complete the Stage III project as scheduled
in 1982 as well as restoring the Company to a satisfactory financial
position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. COSIPA is facing severe financial difficulties
due to inadequate equity contributions from SIDERBRAS, excessive
reliance on short term borrowings, heavy debt repayment commitments
and high interest rates.  This situation has been exacerbated in
1981 by operating problems with one of the company's blast furnaces
which has reduced production below 1980 levels and led to a loss for
the first half of the year.  As a result of funds constraints, imple-
mentation of the Stage III project has been slowed down considerably
and further substantial delays in completion are likely. This
situation has been discussed with the Government, SIDERBRAS and
COSIPA during meetings in Washington in September 1981. At that



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
time it was agreed that a plan of action would be submitted
to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify the steps to
be taken to restore the Company to a satisfactory financial
situation and at the same time ensure the timely completion of
the Stage III project.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries,
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



- 37
ANNEX Il
Page 7 of 14
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Sixteen sub-loans have been approved,
committing the full amount of the Loan for construction or
improvement of 6653 km of roads in twelve states. One-fourth
of the work has been completed. Implementation has been very
slow, mostly because of the constant devaluation of the ORTN,
the monetary unit in which sub-loans are defined. The project
is now being reformulated to reduce the scope, and/or provide
additional financing for 13 sub-projects in order to restore
BNDE/IBRD participation to its initial level. The project is
now expected to be completed by end 1983.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project is now progressing satisfactorily and the rate of
disbursements has risen sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding, project implementation, and consequent rate
of disbursements are sustained during 1982, project completion by
the current loan closing date should be substantially achieved.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE. In 1981, COELCE and COELBA will
not achieve the rate of return target agreed upon.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. Seventy-four percent of the loan is now disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981), commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction have recently been agreed with
the Government. New commitments under this loan are now being
approved, and disbursements began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, was recently agreed.



- 39 --
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Pro ect:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months.  Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be abouit 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Pro ect:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been in operation from August
1980. During this period it achieved an average capacity utiliza-
tion of 81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MS-' and 37% for TSP. Several
plant modifications have been carried out to improve performance of
MAP and TSP plants.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date:  April 5, 1978; Closin Date:  December 31,
1982. Construction of the industrial training center is largely
completed and the commercial centers are in the design stage.
The Government is preparing a proposal to allocate funds not used
for hotel training schools to the occupational safety training
component. The rural training program has not been carried out
as planned, and unless prompt corrective action is undertaken by the
Government, the corresponding portion of the loan may be cancelled.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-farm
rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging progress.
However, the pace of execution of other project components, most
notably, marketing, is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years. Delays in providing counterpart
funds have hampered the execution of the projects of all these
companies. In July 1981, ELECTROBRAS arranged for the required
counterpart funds to be provided so that these projects can now
proceed satisfactorily.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed after a satisfactory revision of the highway
rehabilitation component. The maintenance program in the state of
Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing
station program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan
1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored. Project
completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very
close to first year targets and exceed second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project, in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. CODEVASF
is now reviewing proposals as to the number, location and management
capacity of silos and central rice processing mills. The monitoring
unit has been installed and is now operational.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The second feeder roads project provides
continuity to the program of secondary and feeder roads started
under Loan 1207-BR. Twenty-two organizations from 20 states and
one territory have applied for sub-loans. Nine sub-projects have
been approved and it is expected that six more would be approved by
November 1981 and fully commit the loan. The project is being
reformulated to take account of the devaluation of the ORTN, as
explained for Loan 1207-BR, and now aims at constructing or
improving 4630 km of roads. Project completion is expected to
take place by the end of 1985.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Prciect:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
now is advancing at a good pace and will be completed by the end
of 1983.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is experiencing some delays because of inadequate
resources mainly due to low tariffs.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement are in the process of being
solved.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of items financed by the Bank is well advanced, physical execution
is progressing on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date:  December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project  :  Highway design studies prepared
in 1974 were updated and completed
in eight months.
(b)  Agcncy which prepared project  :  DNER assisted by consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank :  May 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:   October 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission       January 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations           September 30, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness  :  March 31, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) DNER and FUNAI to enter into appropriate arrangements to
determine their respective obligations with respect to
measures for protecting the Amerindian communities
against possible harm associated with highway construction
works (paragraph 33).
(b) The federal government to adequately maintain the federal
highway network and to make appropriate budgetary allo-
cations for the purpose. The government and the Bank to
exchange views annually on DNER's budget proposals and
financial plans (paragraph 42).
(c) Works on the two end sections of the highway being constructed
by the army to be completed according to satisfactory standards
no later than December 31, 1984 (paragraph 54).
(d) Traffic and pavement conditions to be monitored along the
entire highway and government to provide funds for early
strengthening of the pavement (paragraph 54).
I



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) DER-RO to establish, no later than June 30, 1982, a task
group to review jointly with the consultants and assist
in the implementation of DER-RO strengthening plan.
DER-RO also to establish, no later than June 30, 1982,
a permanent training unit (paragraph 56).
(f) DER-RO, as a condition of disbursement for the DER-RO
strengthening component, to establish a task group and training
unit and to assign five professionals and five training
instructors as counterparts to project-financed consultants
(paragraph 56).
(g) DER-RO to prepare, no later than June 30, 1982, a satisfactory
plan for recruiting and retaining adequate and qualified personnel
(paragraph 57).
(h)  The federal government to take all necessary steps for
constructing and subsequently maintaining the feeder road
network required for the purposes of the POLONOROESTE
program (paragraph 59).
(i) DNER to establish a revolving fund for the specific purpose
of the highway construction component, and to make an initial
deposit of US$12 million into the revolving fund account
(condition of disbursement for the highway component,
paragraph 65).
(j) DNER to establish a coordination group for supervision of
highway construction (paragraph 73).
(k) The federal government to provide funds required for the
proper maintenance of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraph 74).



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
COMPOSITION AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Program Composition
1.        The basic objectives of POLONOROESTE would be reached through
the execution of integrated measures in the following areas:
(a) Transport. The POLONOROESTE program places a special emphasis
on the reconstruction and paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
Highway (41.6% of the Program budget), the strengthening of
DER-RO (2.8%) and the improvement of the feeder road network
in the areas of greatest agricultural potential (8.5%).
(b) Settlement of New Areas. About one-fourth of the total Program
budget is tentatively designated for the settlement of up to
3 million ha of land suitable for sustained agricultural
production, through colonization projects sponsored by INCRA.
These projects are expected to settle 30,000 migrant families
(22,000 in Rondonia and 8,000 in Mato Grosso) and provide them
with basic social and economic infrastructure, including
schools and health posts, farm access roads, rural water and
electricity, and facilities for agricultural research, credit,
and crop storage.
(c) Land Tenure Services. 0.8% of the Program budget is devoted to
the regularization of land tenure, particularly in Mato Grosso.
(d) Rural Development. Existing settlement areas in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso are to be consolidated through the establishment of
productive and social infrastructure and services, including the
provision of agricultural extension services, municipal roads,
agricultural credit, crop storage facilities, and health and
educational facilities (14.9%).
(e) Environmental Protection. To help ensure that the environmental
risks of development are minimized, 0.8% of the Program budget
is to be used for such protective measures as the creation and
consolidation of parks and forest reserves, the strengthening
of institutions responsible for the implementation of such
measures, and zoning based on soil surveys.
(f) Protection and Assistance of Indian Communities. A further
2.5% of the Program budget is to be used to strengthen the
National Indian Foundation's (FUNAI) capability for protecting
the land and welfare of these communities.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
(g) Health. Health-related activities (2.3%) include extending
"protection from malaria to 80% of the population of Rondonia,
providing a more adequate network of basic health services
and support facilities for the municipalities to be covered by
agricultural development activities and operational health
research.
(h)  Ecological Research.  This component (0.6%) would include such
elements as the establishment of hydrometeorology and biogeo-
chemistry stations in Rondonia, research on minimum size of
ecosystems, and flora and fauna surveys.
(i) Administration. One percent of the program budget has been
earmarked for the administration costs of the program.
Program Cost Estimates
2.        The total cost of the POLONOROESTE program, including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at about US$1.5 billion. The general
composition of estimated program costs is shown in the following table. They
exclude agricultural credit of about US$100 million to be provided through
existing channels.
Estimated Northwest Program Costs
(In January 1981 terms)
Component                          US$ million       % of Total
Transport
Cuiaba-Porto Velho Road                                448.6            41.6
Strengthening of Rondonia Roads Department              30.7              2.8
Feeder Roads                                            91.3              8.5
Settlement of New Areas                                  261.5             24.2
Land Tenure Services                                        8.6             0.8
Rural Development
Rondonia                                                104.0             9.6
Mato Grosso                                              56.8             5.3
Environmental Protection                                    8.9             0.8
Ecological Research                                         7.0             0.6
Rondonia Health Project                                    24.7             2.3
Protection of Amerindian Communities                       26.6             2.5
Administration                                             10.1             1.0
TOTAL BASELINE COST                               1,078.8           100.0
Physical Contingencies                             136.4
Price Contingencies                                332.8
TOTAL                                            1,548.0



- 49 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
3.        The economic assessment of the POLONOROESTE Program is based on a
comparison of the economic circumstances of the target area with and without
the program implemented. General descriptions of the "without" and "with"
program situations are as follows:
Scenario A: "Without POLONOROESTE"
4.        The first scenario depicts the future as a continuation of past
trends. It assumes no investments to improve the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
or the feeder roads network; no strengthening of the institutions responsible
for land-use zoning, Indian affairs, or environmental protection; and no
improved land titling or additional technical support for agriculture, leading
to a continuation of the present, largely exploitative, methods of agriculture.
Medium- and long-term yields would decline. Market access would become
increasingly difficult as the agriculture perimeter expanded, preventing
access to inputs and leading to larger on-farm losses because farmers could
not evacuate their production.
Scenario B: "With POLONOROESTE"
5.        The second scenario represents the future as influenced by a full
range of government activities implemented through the POLONOROESTE Program.
More specifically, upgrading of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and improvement
of the feeder roads network would be linked to a comprehensive program of
agricultural development. The latter would include measures to ensure that
land is zoned according to agricultural potential and that feeder roads and
physical and social infrastructure and services (including land titling) are
implemented only in agricultural zones. Institutions responsible for non-
agricultural reserves, (e.g., FUNAI, IBDF) would be strengthened to prevent,
as much as possible, settlement land clearing in these areas. Indiscriminate
land clearing would be checked, and by good initial land selection, improved
land use, and technical support, there would be a move toward sustained
cropping (emphasizing tree crops and continuous annual cropping) rather than
short-term exploitation of the land. Use of better land, plus technical
support, would lead to an upward trend in yields in the medium- to long-term,
and the integration of feeder roads with agricultural support would reduce
on-farm loss.
6.        The program generates two main kinds of quantifiable benefits:
the value added to agricultural production because of improved and expanded
agricultural output, and vehicle operating cost savings due to the improved
Cuiaba to Porto Velho road connection, and improved feeder and access roads.
7.        The costs included are those of agricultural production costs,
vehicle operating costs for agricultural traffic, and construction and
maintenance costs for the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway as well as the feeder
roads.
8.        The agricultural production value added is included net of on-farm
costs. Off-farm agricultural production costs are included under "Agricultural
Production Cost." Therefore, by definition, the "without" program scenario does
not have any off-farm agricultural production costs. "Vehicle Operating Cost



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
Savings" includes only non-agricultural vehicles and, for the traffic generated
only in the "with" program case, only half of the vehicle operating cost
savings has been included. The average trip distance on the feeder roads has
been assumed to be 20 and 40 km in the "without" and "with" project cases
respectively.
9.        Foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 15% above its nominal value.
The labor component of highway construction costs has not been shadow priced.
Costs and benefits are net of taxes and subsidies.
10.       The present values of the incremental costs and benefits, taken
over the 20-year period under consideration and discounted 12%, which is
considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil, are the following:
Present Value                          Present Value
Cost Item                        US$ million       Benefit Item         US$ million
Incremental
Agricultural Production             493            Agricultural
and off-farm agricultural                          Production,
support costs.                                     Value Added net          3,968
of on-farm costs
Agricultural Transport
Main Highway -152
Feeder Roads    34               -118
Construction Feeder Roads            64
Construction Main Highway           383            Vehicle Operating
Cost Savings Non-
Agricultural Traffic      832
Maintenance Main Highway             36
Maintenance Feeder Roads             21
Total                          879                                    4,800
11.       The program yields a net present value of more than US$3,900
million. Stated differently, the expected benefits are almost five times as
large as the expected costs. The corresponding internal rate of return is
higher than 50%. This suggests that the POLONOROESTE Program is economically
very worthwhile.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
12.       There are also major non-quantifiable benefits expected from the
program. They include the protection of the Amerindian population and of
large ecologically sensitive areas, a considerably strengthened institutional
capacity within the region, and improved knowledge nf the Amazon basin
environment. There are also costs attached to the development of the Northwest
region which are difficult to quantify, such as those associated with invasions
of unsuitable soils, potential endangerment of the native flora and fauna, and
pressure on previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the
occupation and development of the region has already begun, such costs would
be far higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated
throughout the proposed program. Environmental monitoring built into the
program should considerably enhance the capacity to detect and respond to
adverse ecological trends.
October 1981






A  M  A  Z    O N  A  S      To                                                   I> V iP    A    RA
A                                                              R IX F                    A N                                   -A
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                 |  t:A  CN;loo  ~ 0  200 R  c 
q L s |% s R = Q;t ;t 2 t 25v .0ti t t - -- T===,$twes RES -/To GROSSO Do SU
]0\:  UUC'f    2tC ';   \;:   : ,e J:: t  0g AI!n ,'i






4  ~~~~~Jo   i~~~~~tj  I ~~~-J
c                7         Z
o \ ,!3 ,,9,3 * ,* --g sm i 0                                                                   ' -   - -   - -
titi       111



