LOAN NUMBER 2062 BR
0 0Y.F.r C J
OFFI1CIAL
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Northwest Region Development Program - First Phase:
Highway Project)
between
FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      /5    , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2062 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    /45Cf)ft       iS       , 1981, between
the FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA (hereinafter called Rondonia)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred forty million dollars ($240,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Rondonia agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) the Borrower has agreed to make available to Rondonia a
part of the proceeds of the Loan for the purposes of carrying out
Part B of the Project;
WHEREAS Rondonia warrants and represents that it is author-
ized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the Borrower; and
WHEREAS Rondonia, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Rondonia covenants and warrants that the
Project is of paramount importance to the development of Rondonia


﻿-2-
and that it shall fully support the Project by cooperating with
the Borrower in the execution of the Project and by providing to
each of its agencies and institutions responsible for the carrying
out of any part of Parts B and C of the Project, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources
required on its part for the carrying out of the Project and for
the operation and maintenance of the facilities and services
included in such parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Rondonia shall carry out Part B of the
Project and shall enter into and thereafter maintain agreements
satisfactory to the Bank with each of the Executing Entities as
are necessary or appropriate to ensure the efficient and timely
carrying out of the part or parts of the Project for which each
such Executing Entity is responsible.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) above, Rondonia shall enter into and thereafter
maintain contractual arrangements with BNDE for the purposes
of carrying out Part C (2) and (3) of the Project, the provisions
of which contractual arrangements shall be consistent with Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project, Rondonia
shall employ management, accounting, training, highway maintenance
and highway administration consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, the selection and employment of such consul-
tants to be in accordance with the policies and procedures set
forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.04. (a) Rondonia shall, for purposes of Part B of
the Project:
(i) establish, by September 30, 1982, and thereafter
adequately maintain within DER-RO, a task group
which shall be responsible for updating DER-RO's
Strengthening Program in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, and for carrying out such Strengthening
Program; the members of which task group shall
include a senior highway engineer, a senior highway
maintenance engineer, a mechanical engineer, a
training adviser and a municipal engineer, whose


﻿-3-
experience and qualifications shall be satisfactory
to the Bank; and
(ii) establish, by September 30, 1982, and thereafter
adequately maintain, a training unit which shall be
responsible for the planning, carrying out and
supervision of all current and future training
activities of DER-RO, the members of which training
unit shall include not less than five instructors.
(b) For the purposes of this Section the term "DER-RO's
Strengthening Program" means the program for improving DER-RO's
administrative and operational capabilities as outlined in Estudo
para Estruturagao e Fortalecimento do DER-RO, Volumes I and
II, dated December 1980, as amended from time to time.
Section 2.05. Rondonia shall, through DER-RO, adequately
maintain and operate Rondonia's highway network, including, inter
alia, the feeder roads constructed or improved under Part C (2) of
the Project and assist the municipalities of Rondonia in main-
taining and operating the municipal road network, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.06. Rondonia shall prepare, by June 30, 1982, a
plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for recruiting and retain-
ing adequate and qualified personnel for DER-RO.
Section 2.07. Rondonia shall: (a) by January 1, 1983, estab-
lish and thereafter maintain adequate accounting procedures with
respect to DER-RO's operations; (b) beginning with Rondonia's
1983 fiscal year, cause DER-RO's accounts and financial statements
for each of Rondonia's fiscal year to be audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (c) furnish to the Bank, as
soon as available, but in any case no, later than six months after
the end of such year, the report of such audit.
Section 2.08. (a) Rondonia shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loans.
(b) Rondonia shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere with the progress of


﻿-4-
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Rondonia of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.09. Rondonia shall not take or permit to be taken
and cause each of its political or administrative subdivisions and
each of the entities owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, Rondonia or such subdivisions not to take
or permit to be taken, any action that would prevent or interfere
with the execution of the Project or the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Rondonia thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Rondonia thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-5-
For Rondonia:
Federal Territory of Rondonia
Palacio Presidente Vargas
73000 Porto Velho
Rondonia
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Rondonia, may be taken or executed by
the Governador de Rondonia or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing, and Rondonia shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿-6-
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL TERRITORY OF RONDONIA
By                                6wa               )
Authorized Representa ie
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /S4(    day of 0  'A.  198L.
FOR SECRETARY


