CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 182 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sixth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 24, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 182 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sixth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 24, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1970, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definition
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modification thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Except where the context shall otherwise require, the following
term shall have the following meaning wherever used in this Agreement or any
Schedule thereto:
The term "Specified Enterprises" shall mean firms, registered with the
Borrower's Directorate General of Technical Development of the Ministry
of Industrial Development, Internal Trade and Company Affairs, notified
from time to time by the Borrower to the Association, in the industrial
manufacturing sectors of capital equipment and other goods of high priority
for economic development listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such
list may from time to time be amended by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,


﻿4
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
shall be required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the reasonable c.i.f.
cost of the goods required for the Project and to be financed under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower, or (ii) in respect
of any goods other than raw ard semi-finished materials, components and spare
parts.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1980 and ending
February 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 1990, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied exclusively to the provision of foreign exchange required by the Specified
Enterprises to cover the cost of acquiring the goods needed to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be imported into the territories of the Borrower and to be used in the carrying
out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shali be required
to carry out the Project; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available, promytly
as needed all foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the Project;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required to carry out the Project.
(c)   Upon request from   time to time by the Association, the Borrower
shall promptly furnish to the Association the programs and plans for the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall request.
(d)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to
disclose the use thereof in the Project and to record the progress of the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the relevant records and
documents related to the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Specified Enterprises; and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the program (referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement)
of which the Project is a part, the Specified Enterprises, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿6
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or
the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on, the C;2dit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.04. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Specified Enterprises shall not, on the ground that they are participating
in the Project, be subject to any conditions or requirements not imposed on other
enterprises conducting business in the territories of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿7
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower under any of the development credit
agreements granted by the Association to the Borrower for industrial imports
projects and dated June 9, 1964, August 11, 1965, August 19, 1966,
December 23, 1966 and January 22, 1969, respectively, and such
nonperformance shall continue for a period of sixty days.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971.
Section 6.02. The date of July 1, 1970 is specified for the purposes of
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Alternative address fol cables:
Ecofairs
New Delhi


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 6.04. Any of a Secretary, Special Secretary, or Joint Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or the Director
of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
acting singly, is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-ral
Conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By   /s / Maharajakrishna Rasgotra
A uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿0s                                           9
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent
Raw and semi-finished materials,
components and spare parts for
the:
(i)   Fertilizers and Pesticides
Sector                                         15,000,000
(ii)  Other Sectors                                 60,000,000
Total                   75,000,000


﻿10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower to increase, during
the period from May 1, 1970 to March 31, 1971, productior fo the domestic
civilian market and for export by making available foreign exchange for the import
of raw and semi-finished materials, components, spare parts and miscellaneous items
of manufacturing equipment and thereby improving the rate of utilization of
existing productive capacity and capital equipment in India.
2.    The Project consists of provision by the Borrower of foreign exchange and
other resources required by the respective Specified Enterprises for production for
the domestic civilian market and for export.


﻿*                                  11
SCHEDULE 3
Industrial Manufacturing Sectors under the Project*
Listed hereunder are the industrial manufacturing sectors of capital
equipment and other goods from which the Specified Enterprises are to be selected:
(a)   Commercial vehicles
(b)   Automotive ancillaries
(c)   Agricultural tractors
(d)   Machine tools, cutting and small tools, and abrasives
(e)   Electric motors
(f)   Fertilizers and Pesticides
*     See Section 1.02.


