                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                Report No: 65974-LK.




                                        PROJECT PAPER

                                              ON A

                               PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
                               (US$ 11 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA FOR AN

                                 E-Sri Lanka Development Project

                                          January 5, 2012




FINANCE AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT UNIT
SOUTH ASIA REGION




     This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
     performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
     Bank authorization.
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2011


                  Currency Unit = SDR
                   LKR 113.89 = US$ 1
                  1.55156 US$ = SDR 1

                       FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF        Additional Financing
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIO       Chief Innovative Officer
e-Lanka   e-Sri Lanka Development Project
GOSL      Government of Sri Lanka
ICTA      Information and Communication Agency
ISR       Implementation Status Report
IT        Information Technology
ITES      Information Technology Enabled Services
LGN       Lanka Government Network
LRI       Location Readiness Index




                Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero
              Country Director:         Diarietou Gaye
               Sector Manager:          Ivan Rossignol
             Task Team Leader:          Henry K. Bagazonzya




                                 2
                                                                   SRI LANKA

                                         E-SRI LANKA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                                   CONTENTS

DATA SHEET ............................................................................................................................................ 4

PROJECT PAPER ..................................................................................................................................... 8
   I. Introduction ........................................................................................................................................ 8
   II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing ...................................................................... 8
   III. Proposed Changes ........................................................................................................................... 12
   IV. Appraisal Summary ........................................................................................................................ 15

ANNEXES ................................................................................................................................................ 21
   Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring..................................................................................... 21
   Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) .............................................................. 31




                                                                             3
                              SRI LANKA

             E-SRI LANKA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

               ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET
                    Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Diarietou Gaye             Sectors: Information technology (40%);
Sector Manager/Director: Ivan Rossignol      Central government administration (30%);
Team Leader: Henry K. Bagazonzya             General public administration sector (15%);
Project ID: P128702                          Payments, settlements, and remittance
Expected Effectiveness Date: March           systems (10%); Law and justice (5%)
23,2012                                      Themes: e-Government (40%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment      Administrative and civil service reform
Loan                                         (30%); Rural services and infrastructure
Additional Financing Type: Scale Up          (20%); Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise
                                             support (10%)
                                             Environmental category: C - Not Required
                                             Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2013
                                             Joint IFC:
                                             Joint Level:
                          Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P081771                          Environmental category: C - Not Required
Project Name: E-Sri Lanka Development        Expected Closing Date: December 31,2013
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment      Joint IFC:
Loan                                         Joint Level:
                               AF Project Financing Data
[] Loan [ X] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
Proposed terms: IDA blend terms with a maturity of 25 years including a grace period of
5 years.
                               AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                                    Total Amount (US $m)
Total Project Cost:                         11.00
    Cofinancing:                              0.00
    Borrower:                                 0.00
    Total Bank Financing:                   11.00
       IBRD                                   0.00
       IDA
          New                              11.00
          Recommitted                        0.00
                                   Client Information
Recipient: Government of Sri Lanka
Responsible Agency: Information and Communication Technology Agency
Contact Person: Reshan Dewapura
Telephone No.: +94 11 2369096
Fax No.: +94 11 2369091
Email: reshan@icta.lk


                                    4
             AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                                            2012         2013   2014
Annual                                         2.5          6.5   2.0
Cumulative                                     2.5          9.0   11
             Project Development Objective and Description




                            5
Original project development objective: The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting
the use of information and communication technology to: (i) generate growth, employment and equity; (ii)
provide affordable access to means of information and communication, including access by citizens and
businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and enhance the competitiveness
of industries, small and medium enterprises and other private sector entities. The objective would be
achieved by (i) establishing an effective, citizen-centered and business-friendly government; (ii)
empowering the rural poor, disadvantaged groups, women, and youth through increased and affordable
access to information and communication tools; (iii) developing leadership and skills in ICT; and (iv)
creating employment in the ICT industry and ICT-enabled services, and enhancing the competitiveness of
user industries and services

Revised project development objective: The project development objective remains unchanged.

Project description: The proposed Additional Financing would provide additional support to components
listed below for scale up activities that will enhance the project's impact and development effectiveness by:
(i) consolidating existing high impact activities including e-Government applications, common platforms
and service delivery points ; (ii) bridging infrastructure, training, establishing technical standards,
regulations and legislative gaps in order to achieve the above ; (iii) completing and enhancing minimum
enabling environment for the above to function ; and (iv) using the available services effectively.

As such the AF would finance activities under the following components:
(i)     Component 1:Re-engineering Government (US$ 3.75million): This will focus on 3 main activity
        areas, namely: Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3 & Training, Lanka Gate and E-
        Services which will scale up, rollout and improve access to citizens throughout the country to
        government e-services resulting in efficiency improvements in service delivery.

(ii)     Component 2: Integrated Communication (US$ 0.96 million): An integrated communication
         strategy will be developed and implemented at national, district and at village level. This is
         intended to create awareness at all these levels about on line services offered by the government.
         The strategy and its implementation will also look in to improving coordination between
         government agencies, development partners and service providers with the purpose of improving
         efficiency and access to ICT enabled services. The other function is to effectively communicate the
         need for adherence to standards when developing ICT applications.

(iii)    Component 3: Common Enabling Environment (US$1.59 million): This component will further
         look in to enhancement of current laws and development of new laws to enable the private sector
         to grow and to ensure competition and a level playing field. The component will support the
         expansion of local language compatibility with widely used software packages. Chief Innovative
         Officer (CIO) will be further trained implementation of government ICT policy and effective
         delivery of on line services to citizens and businesses. Cyber security and data protection will be
         another area which the component will support.

(iv)     Component 4: Telecenters & e-Society (US$ 2.39 million): The component will support the
         establishment of extra 40 telecentres in underserved areas. It will also support the rolling out of e-
         services through these centres and the development of 1-2 high impact services in collaboration
         with the private sector.

 (v)       Component 5: Improving Information Technology and Information Technology Enabled Services
(IT/ITES)
           Sector Competitiveness (US$1.31 million): To improve the Location Readiness Index (LRI) for
           IT/ITES industry in terms of Knowledge Processing and IT services. They include: Industry
statistics and
           information; capacity development; train the trainer programs in selected certifications, marketing
and
           promotions.
                                                   6
                              Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                               [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                       [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                            [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                     [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                               [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                    [   ]Yes   [ X ] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                             [   ]Yes   [ X ] No

Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?              [ ]Yes [ X ] No
Have these been endorsed or approved by Bank management?             [ ]Yes [ ] No




                                      7
                                        PROJECT PAPER
I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
financing in an amount of US$ 11 million (equivalent to SDR 7.1 million) to the e-Sri Lanka
Project (P187710) to be financed through an IDA credit to scale up activities that will enhance
the project's impact and development effectiveness.

2.      Additional Financing will support the implementation of expanded activities that will
scale up the project's impact and development effectiveness. by: (i) consolidating existing high
impact activities including e-Government applications, common platforms and service delivery
points ; (ii) bridging gaps in ICT infrastructure, training, establishing technical standards,
regulations and legislative areas (iii) completing and enhancing minimum enabling environment
for the above to function ; and (iv) using the available services effectively. As such the AF
would finance activities under the following components: (i) Re-engineering Government (US$
3.75million);(ii) Integrated Communication (US$ 0.96 million); (iii) Common Enabling
Environment (US$1.59 million); (iv) Telecenters & e-Society (US$ 2.39 million); and (v)
Improving Information Technology and Information Technology Enabled Services (IT/ITES)
Sector Competitiveness (US$1.31 million).

3.      The Additional Financing is being proposed to ensure that activities with the highest
impact for preparation of the next stage of ICT development in Sri Lanka can be completed
during the next 24 months. Therefore, the main focus will be on completing activities that can
link the existing platforms and systems to ensure that Government Ministries and agencies are
connected at the national, regional and district levels. It is also to ensure that citizens have access
to services; including training and information from these developments and that an effort is put
into improving the competitiveness of the country in ICT.

4.      The proposed AF entail the following changes: (i) changes in the PDO intermediate
outcome indicators and results framework, (ii) changes in the project components, and, in
addition, in order to implement the proposed scale up activities, the Closing Date for the original
project and additional financing would be extended until December 31, 2013.


II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

Background - The Original Project

5.      The e-Sri Lanka Development Project (“e-Lanka”) was initially approved by the Board
on September 21, 2004 and became effective on January 27, 2005 with an initial credit to the
value of US$ 53 million (equivalent to SDR 36.3million). The project has gone through two
restructurings, including cancellation of funds, in 2008 and 2011. The Closing Date of the
Project is December 31, 2011.The current credit amount is 47,435,006.94 (SDR 30,217,422).
The e-Lanka Project Environmental Category is C. The Project is implemented by the
Information and Communication Agency (ICTA) of Sri Lanka. As of November 2011, 90.15%
percent of project funds or US$ 41,744.958.81(SDR 26,973,648.90) had been disbursed, with a
remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 4,165,731.03
6.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist the Borrower in promoting the use
of information and communication technology to: (i) generate growth, employment and equity;
(ii) provide affordable access to means of information and communication, including access by
citizens and businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and
enhance the competitiveness of industries, small and medium enterprises and other private sector
entities. The objective will be achieved by (i) establishing an effective, citizen-centered and
business-friendly government; (ii) empowering the rural poor, disadvantaged groups, women,
and youth through increased and affordable access to information and communication tools; (iii)
developing leadership and skills in ICT; and (iv) creating employment in the ICT industry and
ICT-enabled services, and enhancing the competitiveness of user industries and services.

7.    In the last Implementation Status Report (ISR), the Progress towards achievement of
PDO is rated “Satisfactory”, while overall implementation progress is rated “Satisfactory”.

8.     There are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental, social or safeguard issues; and all the
legal covenants have been complied with. There is no outstanding audit report, nor ineligible
expenditures. All disbursement conditions have been met.

9.      The current project consists of three core focus areas and five components. The core
focus areas are: (i) Government Efficiency; (ii) IT Industry Development and SME
Competitiveness; and (iii) Access, Connectivity and Local Content and Innovation. Current
project components include:

       Component 1: e-Policy and Institutional Development Program ($9,250,000)
       Component 2: Re-engineering Government Program ($9,900,000)
       Component 3: e-Society Program ($4,400,000)
       Component 4: ICT Capacity Building Program ($4,660,000)
       Component 5: Telecentres program ($6,850,000)

10.     The project has achieved some major results over its lifetime. Government has
implemented an active ICT program, with over 99% of government agencies being integrated
into the new ICT career-track, with functioning IT officers, and active ongoing training. Sri
Lanka government online portal started offering services to the public in 2009, is now used by
nearly 6 million people so far and rising.1 Over 620 telecenters have been established, used by
over 72,000 citizens monthly, increasing the ICT literacy in rural areas and linking poor people
around the country with markets and information essential to their livelihoods. Over the past 6
years, over 35,000 private sector workers have been trained to incorporate ICT in their business.
ICT has become the 5th largest source of much-needed foreign exchange for Sri Lanka, as the
country has become a top-30 outsourcing destination in the world. Several key laws were
adopted, creating a much-needed ICT legal framework. The project is well-rooted in the middle-
income agenda of Sri Lanka, has won many international awards and accreditations, and has
achieved truly transformative improvements in the country’s global competitiveness as assessed


1
 For example, online services are offered by the Pensions Department, Registrar General's Department, and several
Divisional Secretariats under the Ministry of Public Administration, Motor Traffic Department and the Medical
Transport Board.

                                                       9
by international rating agencies. With the arrival of peace, the project has been expanding to the
Eastern and Northern provinces of the country.

11.        The PDO level indicators and current achievements are listed below:

          Improved access and use of ICT in target areas (as measured by number of beneficiaries
           in target communities using telecentres on a regular basis to improve their
           communication opportunities and access to services – (e.g. Health, Education,
           Employment & Govt. Services) - currently 33,818 against a target of 5,000 with a
           baseline of zero.
          Percentage increase in utilization and satisfaction with services established as a result of
           e-society grants.

           a)Utilization – The utilization indicator is measured at 3 levels.
                                                        Baseline      current
                       Low utilization                  25%           20%
                       Average utilization              44%           58%
                       High utilization                 21%           22%
           b) satisfaction levels 90% , determined through a survey.

          5% of target beneficiaries (5million citizens ) conducting transactions with the central
           government on-line–currently 5.78 million people are using this facility against a target
           of 5 million people with a baseline of zero.
          Enhanced competitiveness of the private sector and in particular of knowledge industry
           and SMEs through employment generation in IT/ITES industry-currently 50,159 jobs
           created against a target of 10,000 (the baseline was later revised to 20,000)
          Reach 4.2 score on the business usage subscale of the Network Readiness index (NRI)2
           currently at 4.6 against a target of 4.2 and a baseline of 3.46.

Table 1 below summarizes the key components currently financed under the Project.
Table 1: Key activities financed under the e-Lanka Project (US$47.36million)

                                                                   Budget       Disbursed   Disbursed %
Activities                                                         (USD$)Mn
                                                                   .

1. e Policy and Institutional Development Program (e-              9.30         8.02        86.3
Leadership)

4. Re-engineering Government Program (Re-Gov)                      9.95         6.54        65.7

5. E-Society Program (E-Society)                                   4.43         3.11        70.2

2. ICT Capacity Building Program (ICBP)                            4.68         3.29        70.2

3. Telecenter Program (Telecenters)                                6.88         6.21        90.3



2
    Measures ICT developments in a country.

                                                        10
Rationale for Additional Financing

12.      The project has achieved significant results and original PDO indicators have been
achieved and exceeded. The Government has requested the Bank’s support to scale up current
activities for the following reasons: (i) the Government is not fully connected3; (ii) the successful
pilot applications developed under the project need to be rolled-out nationally; (iii) more
training of government officers is needed for efficient and effective service delivery to both
internal and external stakeholders/beneficiaries; (iv) improvements are needed in access and
empowering of the rural poor, disadvantaged groups, women and youth through increased and
affordable access to information and communication tools; (v) further improvements in the
competitiveness of the IT/ITES industry in the country, especially in the Location Readiness
Index (LRI)4 ; (vi) the enabling environment for ICT needs to be improved, including legislation,
procedures, guidelines, standards, cyber security/data privacy etc.; and (vii) an integrated
communication strategy is needed to create further awareness about the services available and
adoption of ICT usage at all levels in the country i.e. at the village, district, provincial and
national level.

13.     Improvements to the above will bring the country to the next stage of ICT development
where: (i) the government will be fully connected/integrated and different ministries and
agencies will be actively using the ICT systems that are in place; (ii) inclusiveness in access and
services to citizens will be achieved by connecting the areas that were directly affected by the
conflict resulting in, the whole country having access to electronically delivered government
services, internet facilities and applications developed under the project; (iii) the country
competitiveness in the IT/ITES industry, especially in knowledge processing and IT-services will
be improved, resulting in attracting more FDI and export of services; (iv) ICT literacy will be
increased; and (vii) data protection and privacy laws will be further strengthened etc., resulting in
an overall improvement to the ICT operating and enabled environment in the country.

14.    The proposed activities are well within the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2009 -
2012 and support all three strategic objectives of the CAS and the GOSL’s vision “Mahinda
Chinthana”. The project by creating connected government, online service delivery to
stakeholders, creating employment and building capacity supports CAS strategic objectives of:
expanding economic opportunities in lagging regions for inclusive and equitable economic
development; improving the investment climate and competitiveness for accelerated economic
growth and strengthening the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery.


3
  The Lanka Government network -- a security enabled Wide Area Network linking government institutions--which has not been
able to connect all government institutions; and the Lanka Gate-- a Middleware software system which facilitates different
systems to talk to each other-- this requires improvements in the management structure for the platform, security framework,
inter-operability, incremental hardware requirements and additional service delivery channels (mobile, Internet TV) so that more
services can be supported.
4
  The LRI indicator provides comparisons between countries in different areas necessary for the industry to be competitive and
uses six parameters to calculate the index namely: Talent cost of service, infrastructure, business environment, risks associated in
doing business in a specific country and ICT market maturity. The index is calculated for four business lines (Data, Voice,
Knowledge Processing and IT-Services) for IT/ITES industry. A recent review by the World Bank of these factors have
indicated that Sri Lanka scores very well on a scale of 1-5 (the lower the index the better the competitiveness) on data (2.5) ,
knowledge processing(3.0) specifically in the accounting field, but competes less favorably in voice (3.3) and IT services(3.3).

                                                                11
15.    Other financing avenues have been considered, but the preparation and mobilization
period was too long as the activities needed immediate implementation to keep the current
momentum.

16.     A restructuring of the existing project was also considered. However, such a restructuring
did not appear to be a viable solution, as the remaining project budget is not sufficient to scale up
the project activities.

17.   Preparation of a new project was not considered because of the need to keep the same
implementation mechanism and the current implementation momentum.

18.     The Additional Financing is being proposed to ensure that activities with the highest
impact for preparation of the next stage of ICT development in Sri Lanka can be completed
during the next 24 months.

19.     The proposed activities fall within the scope of the existing project and will benefit from
the existing project implementation mechanism.

20.    The implementation arrangements remain the same for this additional financing. The
proposed new activities do not trigger any safeguards policy and do not change the environment
category of the Project.


III. PROPOSED CHANGES


21.    The current PDO is to enhance growth and equity through: (i) improved access and
use of information and communication; (ii) access to and use of public services on-line by
businesses and citizens; and (iii) enhanced competitiveness of the private sector and in particular
of knowledge industry and SMEs is to remain unchanged. However, a number of project
intermediate indicators will be added to better reflect the focus of specific scale up activities in
the underserved areas under additional financing.


22.     Changes to project intermediate outcome indicators. The nature and scope of the
project necessitated having many intermediate indicators. During additional financing some of
these will be dropped/ revised as indicated in annex 1. It should be noted that many of the
original indicator targets have already been surpassed. Nevertheless, as indicated above, a
number of new Intermediate Outcome Indicators have been introduced as shown below because
of the need for scaling up of activities to integrate the underserved areas and to create private
sector competitiveness in the IT/ITES industry etc:

              50 government sector organizations to be connected to Lanka Government
               Network (LGN) Phase 3.
              200 divisional secretariats implement civil registry e-government application.


                                                 12
                50 % of government organizations are compliant with e-government policy (total
                 organizations 1200).
                850 government officers are trained to use ICT infrastructure effectively in the
                 organizations covered under LGN Phase 3.
                70% of users are aware of and are able to use standard based local language
                 computing.
                Percentage reduction in average time5 taken to obtain government services by
                 citizens and the level of Satisfaction (70% satisfaction).
                No of replication locations (telecentres, government/private sector institutions and
                 development partners) using the applications developed under the e-Society
                 Grants.
                Number trained under ITES Skills certification Programs and trained the trainer
                 (ToT) program.

23.     To achieve this objective the project will have 5 components to undertake scale up of
project activities. The additional financing cost table is as shown below in table 2.


          Table 2: Sri Lanka: Cost Estimate of E- Sri Lanka-Additional Financing Project


                                                                        IDA             Others         Total
    Project Components and Sub-components                               (US$)Mn.        (US$)Mn.       (US$)Mn.

    Component 1 :Re-engineering Government
         Lanka Government Network (LGN III) & Training                   2.21            0.00          2.21
         Lanka Gate                                                      0.63            0.00          0.63
         E-Services                                                      0.91            0.00          0.91
                                              Sub Total                  3.75            0.00          3.75
    Component 2: Integrated communication                                0.96            0.00          0.96
    Component 3: Common enabling environment for the                     1.59            0.00          1.59
    above activities
    Component 4: Telecentres and e-society                               2.39            0.00          2.39
    Component 5: Improving IT/ITES sector competitiveness                1.31            0.00          1.31
     Incremental Operating Costs                                         1.00            0.00          1.00
                                              Sub Total                  7.25            0.00          7.25
    TOTAL                                                                11.00           0.00          11.00




The component descriptions are as follows:




5
 To be determined by a survey which is currently under implementation It is expected that there will be a reduction
of 10% in this measure.


                                                        13
24.    Component 1: Re-engineering Government (US$ 3.75 million): This will focus on 3
main activity areas, namely: Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3 & Training, Lanka
Gate and E-Services which will scale up, rollout and improve access to citizens to government e-
services resulting in efficiency improvements in service delivery. This component was
component 5 in the original Project Appraisal Document.

25.     Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3 & Training (US$ 2.21 million): The
Lanka Government Network has been completed and links internally 476 government entities.
However, North and East could not be connected during project implementation due to the
conflict. Additional financing will connect North and East to the already established government
network. This is critical for achieving connectivity and improving ICT literacy throughout the
whole government sector and inclusiveness in terms of efficient provision of services to all
citizens. ICT training will be provided to all staff involved in the above process in order for them
to use the established infrastructure efficiently and effectively, while providing services to the
citizens. Out of the nearly 1200 public sector organizations only around 50% have ICT officers
trained under the Project requiring the remaining 50% to be trained and appointed as Chief
Innovation Officers to have the public sector ready for the next stage of re-engineering
government.

26.     Lanka Gate (US$ 0.63 million): ICTA developed a middleware infrastructure that
connects software components, people and applications. This allows secure electronic
transactions to be conducted online. Additional financing will support the improvement of the
management structure for the platform, security framework, inter-operability and incremental
hardware requirements, so that more services can be supported. In order to enhance the service
delivery mechanism, additional service delivery channels (mobile, IPTV) will also be
incorporated in the Country Portal.

27.     E-Services (US$ 0.91 million): Additional financing will assist in establishing 20 more
sustainable high impact e-services that would leverage the existing ICT infrastructure (Lanka
Government Network, Lanka Gate and Telecenters and main e-Gov-applications like e-Civil
Registry, e-Pensions and agricultural information systems etc. to reach citizens at divisional
secretariat level/village level.

28.     Component 2: Integrated Communication (US$ 0.96 million): An integrated
communication strategy will be developed and implemented at national, district and at village
levels. This is intended to create awareness at all these levels about on line services offered by
the government. The strategy and its implementation will also look in to improving coordination
between government agencies, development partners and service providers with the purpose of
improving efficiency and access to ICT enabled services. The other function is to effectively
communicate the need for adherence to standards when developing ICT applications. This
component is part of component 1 in the original Project Appraisal Document.

29.     Component 3: Common Enabling Environment (US$ 1.59 million): Further
enhancement of a common enabling environment in terms of policy, compatibility, standards,
regulations under Electronic Transactions Law, preparation of, new laws etc. which are common
to activities above to ensure the effective functioning of the systems, including developing


                                                14
leadership and specialized expertise to maintain and sustain such systems. This component will
further look into enhancement of current laws and development of new laws to enable the private
sector to grow and to ensure competition and a level playing field. The component will support
the expansion of local language compatibility with widely used software packages. Chief
Innovative Officers (CIO) will be further trained on implementation of government ICT policy
and effective delivery of on line services to citizens and businesses. Cyber security and data
protection will be another area which the component will support. This component is part of
component 1 in the original Project Appraisal Document.

30.     Component 4: Telecentres and e-society (US$ 2.39 million): The component will
support the establishment of extra 40 telecentres in underserved areas (underserved due to
conflict).It will also support the rolling out of e-services through these centres and the
development of 1-2 high impact services in collaboration with the private sector. This component
is an amalgamation of component 4 and 6 in the original Project Appraisal Document.

31.     Component 5: Improving IT/ITES Sector Competitiveness (US$ 1.31 million): This
component intends to improve location readiness Index for IT/ITES industry in terms of
Knowledge processing and ICT services. Activities under this component will include (i)
development of skills certification program for IT/ITES; (ii) provision of industry statistics and
information on industry needs; (iii) Train the Trainer(ToT) Program in selected certifications;
and (iv) marketing and promotion of the industry. This component was component 2 in the
original Project Appraisal Document.

32.   Incremental Operating Cost (US$ 1.00 million) will support costs associated with project
management including rent, utility services etc.

33.   The implementation arrangements remain the same for this additional financing. There
are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental, social or safeguard issues; and all the legal
covenants have been complied with. There is no outstanding audit report, nor ineligible
expenditures. All disbursement conditions have been met.


IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

34.     Economic and Financial Analyses. The additional financing will contribute to the
already established objective of increasing access to information by citizens; increased public
sector cost efficiency and transparency; improvement in the quality of governmental services;
reduction in transaction costs (for government, businesses, and citizens); increased contribution
to GDP by the private sector in general and the IT industry in particular; ICT-enabled increases
in productivity across government and industries; and an enhanced policy and legal environment.
For example, the establishment of the government-wide intranet (LGN) will enable government
agencies to access and share each other’s information and data seamlessly, substantially reducing
government processing and transaction times and costs. An e-pension processing and delivery
system under rollout will benefit large number o f Sri Lanka’s pensioners and their dependents.

35.     Component 5 has been redesigned to provide support to IT/ITES industry to improve
their competitiveness in voice and knowledge processing business lines in which they were

                                               15
found weak in comparison with other countries as measured by the Location Readiness Index
(LRI).Activities under this component have been refocused to achieve the above objective. They
include: industry statistics and information; capacity development; train the trainer programs in
selected certifications, marketing and promotions.

36.     Given the time period in which to prepare this additional financing, it was impossible to
prepare a fully fledged economic and financial analysis of the additional financing and the
original project impact evaluation. There are several studies planned for the first quarter of
project implementation. These include a study to develop a plan for sustainability of e-
government at large and ICTA in particular and an arrangement that is in the process of being
finalized with the Development Research Group of the Bank to do an evaluation of the project as
a whole.

Fiduciary

37.      Financial management: The overall FM performance of the current operation has been
rated as satisfactory during the last financial management supervision. The same financial
management will be existent for the activities financed under the additional financing.
Nevertheless, the financial management team of the Bank conducted a financial management
assessment of the ICTA to confirm that the existing project financial management arrangements
will continue to provide the Bank with accurate and timely information regarding the activities
that will be financed under the additional financing and thereby providing reasonable assurance
that the Bank’s funds will be used for the purposes intended. The existing FM procedures and
practices for the project are satisfactory to meet IDA’s fiduciary requirements as per OP/BP
10.02. The project has a “Moderate” FM risk rating. ICTA has the overall responsibility for FM
activities of the project including the compliance with the financial covenants of the legal
agreement. ICTA has core staff including finance and accounting professionals with sufficient
capacity and experience to carry out project financial management activities.

38.     All contract payments will be pre-audited by the project’s internal auditor. In addition,
the internal auditor annually verifies the fixed assets procured under the project. The project’s
external audit will be conducted by a firm of chartered accountants appointed by the Auditor
General of Sri Lanka. The audited financial statement for each financial year will be submitted to
IDA within six (6) months from the end of the financial year. There are no overdue audit reports
or ineligible expenditures relating to ICTA.

39.     Disbursements would be report based. The project funds will be disbursed to a segregated
designated account in USD maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. All project payments
will be made by ICTA based on payment certification and recommendation provided by
programme leaders. Tailor-made accounting software is used to keep financial records of the
project. Replenishment of the designated account would be based on the quarterly interim
unaudited financial reports (IUFRs). The IUFRs would be due within 45 days of the end of the
reporting period which is the calendar quarter.




                                               16
40.    Allocation of credit proceeds for additional financing is as in the table given below.


                                       Amount of the                  Percentage of
                                       Financing Allocated            Expenditures to be
       Category
                                       (expressed in USD              Financed
                                       million)                       (inclusive of Taxes)
       (1) Goods, non-consulting 10.0                                 100%
       services, works, consultants
       services, Training, Workshops
       (2) Incremental operating costs 1.0                            100%
       Total Amount                    11.0


41.     Procurement: ICTA will be responsible for handling all the procurements under the
additional financing. Procurement would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s
“Guidelines: Procurement for Goods, Works and Non Consulting Services under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits & Grants – January 2011”; “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers –
January 2011”. For each contract to be financed by the Project, the difference procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior requirements and time frame are
to be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank Project Team in the Procurement Plan.
The Borrower has developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This plan will be agreed between the Borrower and the
Project Team before negotiations, and would be available at the borrower’s website. It will also
be available in the Project’s database and in the Bank’s external website. The Procurement Plan
will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. A General
Procurement Notice shall be published as soon as the procurement plan is prepared. ICTA has
well experienced Procurement Staff that have been working with Bank’s procurement processes
for a substantial time period.


Environmental, social aspects and safeguard policies

42.    The proposed activities do not trigger any safeguards policy and do not change the
Environment Category of the Project classified as C. There are no environmental issues
associated with the on-going project and the proposed additional financing. No mitigation
measures are needed.




                                                17
43.    The project is ready for implementation under the ongoing implementation arrangements.
The procurement plan for the additional financing has been prepared.

Risks

44.     The overall original risk for the project was estimated as moderate and is same as
proposed for AF. The main risks of the project are (i) long term sustainability of ICTA, (ii)
government institutions not getting connected, (iii) private sector not taking advantage of the
project, (iv) bad design and lack of standards for interoperability among systems, (v) acquisition
of hardware, software, applications and systems that could become obsolete in a short period,
and (vi) financial sustainability of telecentres.

45.      Risk mitigation mechanisms will include, amongst others, working with ICTA to define
its role to be that of ensuring compatibility in the hardware and software of various government
agencies and to let the private sector take on more of the activities, eg, development of e-services
and other applications. It will also require training for government officials involved in service
delivery, strengthening coordination among government institutions to ensure that they are
capable of taking over their different roles. During additional financing extra efforts will be put
in place to improve the viability of telecentres by providing other services through them as
indicated in table 2 below. The private sector needs in areas related to knowledge processing and
IT services will be identified through industry associations to ensure improvements in Location
Readiness Index (LRI). There will also be increased inter donor coordination to ensure effective
implementation of ICT projects and creation of revenue generating avenues and effective
revenue models around e-services for further sustainability of the implementing agency.




                                                18
Table 2: Key Risks and Mitigation Measures

          KEY RISKS                                    MITIGATION MEASURES

Long term sustainability of ICTA     ICTA has started a process of looking at creation of revenue
                                     generating avenues, including charging for the services that they
                                     provide to citizens and businesses. ICTA will also during this
                                     phase be working towards carrying out only those functions that
                                     ensure computability in the hardware and soft ware in government
                                     agencies. It will review its human resources needs’ to be able to
                                     carry out this function. ICTA has already been working with the
                                     private sector in the development of E-Lanka Gate and other
                                     software systems and applications and will continue during this
                                     additional financing period to bring in more private sector
                                     operators to take over many of the activities, eg development of e-
                                     services, other applications like financial services, etc.

                                     Further, a study will be undertaken during the first quarter of AF to
                                     develop a plan for sustainability of e-government at large and
                                     ICTA in particular

Government institutions at the Government will ensure that during additional financing the e-DS
Centre, Division secretariat and e-Government infrastructure and necessary application
village levels not getting connected development is completed to enable the roll out of the system.
throughout the country


Private sector not taking advantage The Project will dedicate their efforts towards ensuring that the
of the project services to improve private sector is weaned off the grant system, but will now
the location readiness indicators   concentrate on areas in which the private sector is weak, including
                                    working with the associations to identify what needs to be done as
                                    a policy in the educational system to produce enough numbers for
                                    the different needs of the IT industry and other IT enabled
                                    services.



Bad design and lack of standards for Establishing standards (like the Lanka Interoperability framework
interoperability among systems and (LIFe) for compliance when developing systems. Enhancing the
the existence of legacy/propriety Lanka Gate system so that different systems can talk to each other
systems which are unable to
communicate with each other.




                                                  19
Due to the changing nature of The Implementing agency will acquire the necessary capacity, and
technological           advancement, the know how to be always at the cutting edge of ICT
communities and businesses being developments.
supported by the project acquiring
hardware, software, applications
and systems that could become
obsolete in a short period.

New Telecentres not becoming These will be located in areas with connectivity, will have other
financially sustainable      services delivered through them including financial services, etc.
                             Information that is available on health, education, agriculture and
                             animal husbandry practices and other services at these centres will
                             be provided at a fee which will increase their long term
                             sustainability.




                                              20
                                                           ANNEXES
                              ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING

                                            E-Sri Lanka Development Project-AF
                                                    Results Framework

                  Revisions to the Results Framework                                          Comments/
                                                                                         Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                                 Proposed
To enhance growth, and equity                 Continued.
through

 i) access to and use of means of
information and communication;

 ii) access to and use of public services
online by businesses and citizens,

iii) enhancing competitiveness of
private sector and in particular of
knowledge industry and SMEs
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                                 Proposed change*
 Improved access and use of ICT in            Continued.                              Indicator remains the same with a
target areas (as measured by                                                          new target of 40,000 from the
number of beneficiaries in target                                                     current estimate of around 33,000
communities using telecentres on a                                                    users.
regular basis to improve their
communication opportunities and
access to services – e.g. Health,
Education, Employment & Govt.
Services)
  [% or #) increase over baseline in          Completed.
utilization and satisfaction with
services established as a result of e-
SF financial assistance.
 5% of target beneficiaries (5mn              Revised                                 Indicator remains the same with an
citizens and businesses) conducting           7.5% of target beneficiaries (7.5 mn.   increased target of 7.5 million.
transactions with the central                 citizens and businesses) conducting
government on-line.                           transactions with the central
                                              government on-line

 Reach 4.2 score on the business              Revised.                                Indicator remains the same with a
usage subscale of the NRI index               Reach 4.70 score on the business        new target of 4.70 from a current
                                              usage subscale of the NRI index         value of 4.6.

 10,000 jobs created in ICT                   Continued.
industry (IT-enabled services).


Intermediate Results indicators
Component 1 : Re-engineering Government

                                                                21
                Revisions to the Results Framework                                         Comments/
                                                                                      Rationale for Change
Current (PAD)                          Proposed change*
100 agencies with an operational       Revised.                                   This indicator has been generalized
portal or Web site (200 agencies       Number of government agencies with         without the numbers and the
total)                                 an operational portal or Web site          indicator is continued with an
                                                                                  additional target.
20 on-line services created for and    Revised
used by private sector and citizens
                                       20 additional on-line e-Services           The indicator is continued with an
                                       created for and used by citizens,          additional 20 on line services.
                                       private sector and public sector (G2G,
                                       G2C and G2B)

Three on-line services created for     Completed
and used by public sector
                                       New.                                       The new indicators have been
                                       Percentage reduction in average time6      added to take care of scaling up of
                                       taken to obtain government services        activities in the underserved areas.
                                       by citizens and the level of
                                       Satisfaction (70% satisfaction).
                                       New.                                       Same as above
                                       50 government sector organizations to
                                       be      connected      under      Lanka
                                       Government network(LGN) Phase 3
                                       New.                                       Same as above
                                       50 % of government organizations are
                                       compliant       with     e-government
                                       policy(total organizations 1200)
                                       New.                                       Same as above
                                       200 divisional secretariats implement
                                       civil      registry      e-government
                                       application
                                       New.                                       Same as above
                                       850 government officers are trained
                                       to use ICT infrastructure effectively in
                                       the organizations covered under the
                                       Lanka Government network(LGN)
                                       Phase 3
e-Policy and Institutional
Development Program
(E-Leadership)
Certified CIO teams responsible        Revised.                                   The indicator is continued with an
for e-transformation established                                                  additional target.
within 80% of government               Trained CIO teams responsible for e-
agencies (650 agencies)                transformation established within 30% of
                                       the remaining government agencies (550
                                       selected agencies)

ICTA effectively meeting its           Completed
annual targets in the strategic plan

6
 To be determined by a survey which is currently under implementation. It is expected that there will be a reduction
of 10% in this measure.


                                                          22
                Revisions to the Results Framework                                        Comments/
                                                                                     Rationale for Change

5% annual improvement in rating         Continued.
of ICT policy environment using
NRI index
                                        New.
                                        70% of users are aware of and are able
                                        to use standard based local language
                                        computing.

ICT Capacity Building Program
80% of 5,000 participants of ICT        Completed.
awareness and training programs
from non-ICT private sector rated
their experiences applicable to their
work (4 years)
20,000 beneficiaries of an              Completed
accredited ITES (IT enabled
services) training program in four
years7




                                        New.
                                        Number trained under ITES Skills
                                        certification Programs (SCP) and
                                        trained the trainer (ToT) program.
Telecenters
a) 200 telecenters established in       Revised.                                 Telecentres will be established
four years out of which b)170 will      40 telecentres established in            only in underserved areas.
be operational and c) 75 financially    underserved areas out of which 70%
sustainable (income exceeds             will be operational and 25%
operating costs)                        financially sustainable.

a) 40% of telecenter users are          Continued.
women;
b) 70% of users are youth

e-Society
a) 70% of population in targeted        Continued.
communities is aware of ICT
opportunities; and

b) has access to the services
provided under e-SF.
80% of projects recommended by          Completed.
e-SF Board for funding are scaled
up/ replicated by development

7
  Training included IT and ITES-related courses such as industry specialized IT training (e.g. Microsoft dot-net);
industry standard courses (e.g. BPO certification, project management, performance management); industry
debriefs; industry certifications (MS, Oracle, Java); train-the-trainer, etc.

                                                          23
                   Revisions to the Results Framework                                             Comments/
                                                                                             Rationale for Change
partners.
Level of competition for                   Completed.
Partnership grants measured by
ratio of applications to grants
awarded.
Level of competition for                   Completed
Community grants measured by
ratio of applications to grants
awarded.
                                           New.
                                           % increase in number of replication
                                           locations (telecentres,
                                           government/private sector institutions
                                           and development partners) using
                                           applications developed under the e-
                                           Society Grants. 8


    * Indicate if the indicator is Dropped, Continued, New, Revised, or if there is a change in the end of project target value




8
    To be determined by a survey which is implemented on annual basis.

                                                               24
                                                                    REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK

Project Development Objective (PDO): To enhance growth, and equity through                          i) access to and use of means of information and communication; ii) access to and use of public
services online by businesses and citizens, iii) enhancing competitiveness of private sector and in particular of knowledge industry and SMEs..

                                                                                                                                                                            Responsibility
                                                            Baseline                                                                                     Data Source/                           Comm
                                                                                         Cumulative Target Values12                Frequency                                  for Data
                                                            Original      Progress                                                                       Methodology                             ents
                                                                                                                                                                             Collection
   PDO Level Results Indicators9                  UOM10     Project       To Date
                                                                          (2011)11           2012              2013
                                           Core
                                                              Start
                                                             (2004)
1. Improved access and use of ICT
in target areas (as measured by
number of beneficiaries in target
                                                                                                                            Quarterly monitoring,        Telecenter       Survey
communities using telecentres on a
                                                  Number                                                                    annual evaluation            Monitoring       Implementation
regular basis to improve their                                  0          33,118           35,000             40,000
                                                                                                                            Report to IDA and            data Annual      firm, M&E
communication opportunities and
                                                                                                                            ICTA Board                   Evaluation ,     Team
access to services – e.g. Health,
Education, Employment & Govt.
Services).
                                                                                                                             Annual evaluation           eSociety         Survey
                                                                                                                            Report to IDA and            Evaluation       Implementation
                                                                                                                            ICTA Board                   Survey,          firm
2. User satisfaction with
                                                                                                                                                         User
applications established under the                                        Baseline
                                                    %          NA
                                                                           TBD
                                                                                              60                 70                                      satisfaction
e-society grant mechanism with a
                                                                                                                                                         Survey for
satisfaction rate of 70%.
                                                                                                                                                         Replicated
                                                                                                                                                         Applications

3. 7.5% of target beneficiaries (7.5                                                                                        Quarterly, annual            Service          ICTA PMs
mn. citizens and businesses)                      Number                                                                    evaluation                   application
                                                                0         5,778,290        6,500,000         7,500,000
conducting transactions with the                                                                                            Report to IDA and            statistics by
central government on-line.                                                                                                 ICTA Board                   ICTA


           9
             Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (for additional guidance – please see http://coreindicators).
           10
              UOM = Unit of Measurement.
           11
              For new indicators introduced as part of the additional financing, the progress to date column is used to reflect the baseline value.
           12
              Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually. Target values should normally be cumulative. If targets
           refer to annual values, please indicate this in the indicator name and in the “Comments” column.
                                                                                                         Quarterly monitoring,   NRI Index       ICTA M&E
4. Reach 4.7score on the business
                                         Number                                                          annual evaluation
usage subscale of the NRI index                      3.46        4.60          4.65           4.70
                                                                                                         Report to IDA and
                                                                                                         ICTA Board
                                                                                                         Annual                  IT/ITES         ICTA PM,
5 . 10,000 jobs created in ICT           Number                                                                                  Work Force      Survey
                                                   20,000      50,159        55,000          60,000
industry (IT-enabled services).                                                                                                  Survey          Implementation
                                                                                                                                                 firm
Beneficiaries13
                                                                                                         Quarterly Monitoring,   Service         ICTA PM,
                                                                                                         annual evaluation       applications    M&E Team
                                         Number
Project beneficiaries,                                        5,899,070      6,700,000      7,700,000    Report to IDA and       statistics by
                                                      0
                                                                                                         ICTA Board              ICTA,
                                                                                                                                 Evaluation
                                                                                                                                 Surveys
                                                                                                         Quarterly, annual       Service         ICTA PM,
                                                                                                         evaluation              applications    M&E Team,
                                         Number
                                                              2,064,675      2,400,500      2,700,150    Report to IDA and       statistics by   Survey
Of which female (beneficiaries)                       0
                                                                                                         ICTA Board              ICTA,           Implementation
                                                                                                                                 Evaluation      firm
                                                                                                                                 Surveys




          13
            All projects are encouraged to identify and measure the number of project beneficiaries. The adoption and reporting on this indicator is required for
          investment projects which have an approval date of July 1, 2009 or later (for additional guidance – please see http://coreindicators).

                                                                                      26
                                                                     Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                               Baseline                       Target Values
                                               Origina
                                  Unit of                   Progress       2012     2013                                                       Responsibility
  Intermediate                                     l                                                                        Data Source/                        Comment
                                Measuremen                  To Date                                       Frequency                              for Data
Results Indicators                             Project                                                                      Methodology                            s
                         Core
                                     t                       (2011)                                                                             Collection
                                                 Start
                                                (2004)

Intermediate Result 1: Re-engineering Government

1.50 government                                                                                      Quarterly              LGN              ICTA M&E
organizations are                 Number                                                             monitoring, Annual     statistics
                                                 N/A            0           25         50
connected under                                                                                      evaluation
LGN Phase 3                                                                                          ICTA Board Report
2. Number of                                                                                         Quarterly              LGN              ICTA M&E
government                                                                                           monitoring (count      statistics
agencies with an                  Number                                                             of operational Web
                                                               330         360        380
operational portal                                                                                   pages)
or Web site

3. 20 additional e                                                                                   Quarterly              LGN              ICTA M&E
services created for                                                                                 monitoring, annual     statistics,
and used by                                                                                          evaluation (#          government
citizens, private                                                                                    services via LGN)      report
                                  Number                        0           10         20
sector and public                                                                                    ICTA Board Report
sector (G2G, G2C
and G2B)

4. % reduction in                                                                                    Annual reporting to    E-               Survey
average time14                                                                                       stakeholders and       Government       Implementation
taken to obtain                                                                                      development            Benchmarkin      firm
                                    %                      Time :TBD       10%        20%
government                                                                                           partners               g Evaluation
                                                           Satisfactio
services by citizens                                                                                                        Survey
                                    %                        n :TBD         70         70
and the level of
satisfaction (70%
satisfaction).


    14
         To be determined by a survey to be implemented on an annual basis. It is expected that there will be a reduction of 10% in this measure.


                                                                                     27
5. 50 % of                                                                          Quarterly             E-             Survey
government                                                                          monitoring, annual   Government      Implementation
organizations are                                                                   evaluation           Benchmarkin     firm
compliant with e-                                                                   Report to IDA and    g Survey
                             %                      10        25        50
government                                                                          ICTA Board
policy(total
organizations
1200)
6. 200 divisional                                                                   Quarterly            Service         ICTA PM, ICTA
secretariats                                                                        monitoring, annual   applications    M&E
implement civil                                                                     evaluation,          statistics by
                          Number                    0         100      200
registry e-                                                                         ICTA Board Report    ICTA
government
application
7. 850 government                                                                   Quarterly            ICTA            Training Provider
officers are trained                                                                monitoring, annual   Monitoring      Records, ICTA
to use ICT                                                                          evaluation,          Data Training   M&E Team
infrastructure                                                                      ICTA Board Report    provider
                          Number                    0         400      850
effectively in the                                                                                       records,
organizations                                                                                            ICTA records
covered under
LGN Phase 3

Intermediate Result 2 : Integrated Communications and Common Enabling Environment

8. Trained CIO                                                                      Quarterly            ICTA            Training Provider,
teams responsible                                                                   monitoring, annual   Monitoring      ICTA M&E Team
for e-                                                                              evaluation           Data, raining
transformation                                                                      Report to IDA and    provider
established within                                                                  ICTA Board           records,
30% of the                   %                      0         15        30                               ICTA records
remaining
government
agencies (550
selected agencies)

9. 5% annual                                                                        Annual               NRI Index       ICTA M&E
improvement in
                             %                      4          5        5
rating of ICT
policy environment


                                                                       28
using NRI index


10. 70% of users                                                        Annual reporting to   Evaluation     Survey
are aware of and                                                        stakeholders and      Survey         Implementation
are able to use                                  Baseline               development                          firm
                              %                             35    70
standard    based                                 TBD                   partners
local    language
computing.

Intermediate Result 3: Telecenters & E-Society

11. 40 telecentres                                                      Bi annual reporting   Site visits,   Survey
established in              Number                  0       20    40    to stakeholders and   Monitoring     Implementation
underserved areas                                                       development           Data,          firm
out of which 70%               %                    0       70    70    partners              Telecenter
will be operational                                                                           Evaluation
and 25%                        %                    0       10    25                          Survey
financially
sustainable.
12. a) 40% of                                                           Bi annual reporting   Site visits,   Survey
telecenter users are          %                    48       40    40    to stakeholders and   Monitoring     Implementation
women;                                                                  development           Data,          firm
b) 70% of users are           %                    82       70    70    partners              Telecenter
youth                                                                                         Evaluation
                                                                                              Survey
13. % increase in                                                       Quarterly             Monitoring     ICTA PM,
number of                                                               monitoring, annual    Data eSDI      Survey
replication                                                             evaluation            Evaluation     Implementation
locations                                                               Report to IDA and     Survey         firm
(telecentres,                                                           ICTA Board
government/privat                                Baseline
                              %                             10%   20%
e sector institutions                             TBD
and development
partners) using
applications
developed under
the e-Society




                                                                  29
Grants. 15



Intermediate Result 4: Improving IT/ITES Sector Competitiveness

14.Number trained
under ITES Skills                                                                               Quarterly
certification                                                                                   monitoring, annual
                                 Number                    SCP=0      SCP=500       SCP=1,000                        ICTA internal
Programs (SCP)                                             ToT=0       ToT=20        ToT=50     evaluation                           ICTA M&E Team
                                                                                                                     records
and trained the                                                                                 Report to IDA and
trainer (ToT)                                                                                   ICTA Board
program.




    15
         To be determined by a survey which is to be implemented on annual basis.

                                                                                      30
                                ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (ORAF)

                                               E-Sri Lanka Development Project-AF
                                                          Stage: Board

    Project Stakeholder Risks                                                               Rating                                    Moderate
Description :                                                                               Risk Management :
                                        There is a risk that the government officials and
                                       other stakeholders may not use the systems           Extensive training for officials will be provided using both on the
                                       developed (in Government) or take advantage of       job and other methods of training, including introducing change
                                       them due to attitude and competency reasons.         management initiatives in locations where implementation takes
                                                                                            place.
                                                                                            -Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : August 2012 |
                                                                                            Status: ongoing
                                       ICT adoption and System implementation delays
                                       due to lack of coordination among implementing       A High powered “Inter- ministerial” committee is in place to
                                       and other agencies.                                  improve coordination and compliance of the e-government policy
                                                                                            framework across government organizations.
                                                                                             Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : Already in
                                                                                            place | Status: Completed

                                       ICT literacy is still not conducive enough for       Improving the telecenter’s level of service and viability to ensure
                                       some segments of the society to transact             access and appropriate training to this segment is being enhanced
                                       electronically.                                      through additional financing. Implementation of Mobile Government
                                                                                            concept which would facilitate use of mobile phones for electronic
                                                                                            transactions will add to this effort.
                                                                                            Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : October 2012
                                                                                            | Status: ongoing

                                       Users and stakeholders not aware of the services     An integrated communication campaign to create awareness about
                                       available and how to make use of them.               the services and how to obtain them will be carried out on a
                                                                                            sustained basis.
                                                                                            Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : April 2012 |
                                                                                            Status: On going




                                                                       31
     Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
       Capacity                                                                                             Rating:            Moderate
Description:                                           Risk Management :

The agency has sufficient Financial, procurement       The project will continue to ensure that qualified staff are in place and their knowledge updated to continue to
and Project management staff with the required         effectively perform their responsibilities.
skills.                                                Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : March 2012 | Status: ongoing

Governance                                                                                                  Rating:            Substantial
Description:                                           Risk Management :

The need for ICTA to change its role and work           ICTA has started a process of looking at creation of revenue generating avenues, including charging for the services that
towards the long term sustainability of its            they provide to citizens and businesses. ICTA will also during this phase be working towards carrying out only those
operations/functions                                   functions that ensure computability in the hardware and soft ware in government agencies. It will review its human
                                                       resources needs’ to be able to carry out this function. ICTA has already been working with the private sector in the
                                                       development of E-Lanka Gate and other software systems and applications and will continue during this additional
                                                       financing period to bring in more private sector operators to take over many of the activities, eg development of e-
                                                       services, other applications like financial services, etc. Further, a study will be undertaken during the first quarter of AF
                                                       to develop a plan for sustainability of e-government at large and ICTA in particular.
                                                       Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : July 2012| Status: On going
    Project Risks
Design                                                                                                      Rating:            Moderate
Description:                                           Risk Management :


New Telecentres not becoming financially               These will be located in areas with connectivity, will have other services delivered through them including financial
sustainable                                            services, etc. Information that is available on health, education, agriculture and animal husbandry practices and other
                                                       services at these centres will be provided at a fee which will increase their long term sustainability.
                                                        Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : December 2012 | Status: Not yet started

                                                       The Project will dedicate their efforts towards ensuring that the private sector is weaned off the grant system, but will
Private sector not taking advantage of the project     now concentrate on areas in which the private sector is weak, including working with the associations to identify what
services to improve the location readiness             needs to be done as a policy in the educational system to produce enough numbers for the different needs of the IT
indicators                                             industry and other IT enabled services.
                                                       Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : December 2012 | Status: On going

                                                       Government will ensure that the e-DS e-Government infrastructure and necessary application development is completed
Government institutions at the Centre, Division
                                                       to enable the roll out of the system.
secretariat and village levels not getting connected
                                                        Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : December 2012 | Status: On going
throughout the country

                                                       Establishing standards (like the Lanka Interoperability framework (LIFe) for compliance when developing systems.
Bad design and lack of standards for
                                                       Enhancing the Lanka Gate system so that different systems can talk to each other.
interoperability among systems and the existence of


                                                                                       32
legacy/propriety systems which are unable to
communicate with each other.                          Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : October 2012| Status- On going

Social & Environmental                                                                                   Rating:            Low
Description:
                                                                                                         Risk Management :
There are no environmental issues associated with the on-going project and the proposed additional
financing. No mitigation measures needed.                                                                 Resp: client | Stage: Prep | Due Date : | Status:

Program & Donor                                                                                          Rating:            Moderate
Description:
Development partners imposing their own               Risk Management :
systems and standards on GOSL for their specific      More inter-donor and intra-donor coordination to ensure effective and interoperable implementation of ICT projects
projects without adhering to laid down standards
and guidelines in system development and
                                                      Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : June 2012| Status: On going
integration and lack of donor/project collaboration
in ICT deployments
Implementation & Sustainability                                                                          Rating:            Moderate
Description:
                                                      Risk Management :
Possible lack of stakeholder / partner support for
                                                      During implementation support from development partners and government at the highest level to manage stakeholder
project implementation and data collection. This
                                                      relationships will be done through constant briefings and communication of the latest services, applications and systems
would include misuse of facilities provided under
                                                      being developed by ICTA in collaboration with the ICT industry . This is to ensure that that there is no unnecessary
the project, eg telecentres , donor and government
                                                      duplication and acquisition of technologies that could be obsolute in a short term and to avoid non compartability in
projects implementing their projects and programs
                                                      hardware and soft ware being purchased by Government Agencies. A communicaton strategy that takes care of some of
without coordinating with the implementing
                                                      the information flow and availability will be supported during the implementation of additional financing activities.
agency. It could be in terms of management
information systems, applications , etc
                                                      Resp: Client | Stage: Implementation | Due Date : April 2012| Status: ongoing

Non disclosable Information for Management Attention (Optional)

                                                      Comments:
    Project Team Proposed Rating Before Review
                                                   Preparation Risk Rating: Moderate                         Implementation Risk Rating: Moderate
Comments:
              The project has already exceeded its original outcomes and output targets and since additional financing is mainly for scaling up
successful applications, the team is of the opinion that the implementation arrangements in place, the mitigation measures that have been identified
and the planned studies puts the overall rating to moderate.
    Risk Team
Preparation Risk Rating :                                                                   Implementation Risk Rating:
Comments: (this section will not print if there is no « Risk Team » Review)



                                                                                     33
    Overall Risk Following Review
Preparation Risk Rating: Moderate        Implementation Risk Rating: Moderate
Comments:




                                    34
