                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR-0000939



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (Credit 3986-CE)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.2 MILLION
                         (US$ 55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

              DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                        FOR A

                             E-SRI LANKA PROJECT

                                 November 20, 2014




Finance and Markets Global Practice

South Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 2014)

                    Currency Unit = Rs.
                   Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.0077
                    US$ 1.00 = Rs. 130

                   FISCAL YEAR FY14
                      July 1 – June 30

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARC      Administrative Reform Committee
BPO      Business Process Outsource
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBSL     Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CEA      Country Environmental Analysis
CEO      Chief Executive Officer
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CINTEC   Center for Information Technology
CIO      Chief Innovation Officer
e-SF     e-Society Fund
G2B      Government to Business
G2C      Government to Citizens
G2G      Government to Government
GND      Grama Nilhadari Division
GOSL     Government of Sri Lanka
HRD      Human Resources Development
ICBF     Institutional Capacity Building Fund
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
ICTA     Information and Communication Technology Agency
IOC      Incremental Operating Costs
ITES     IT-Enabled Services
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MERST    Ministry of Economic Reform, Science and Technology
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOST     Ministry of Science and Technology
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NEA      National Environmental Act
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NRI      Network Readiness Index
PFG      Policy Focus Group
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
RTN      Regional Telecommunication Network
SLCERT            Sri Lanka Computing Emergency Readiness Team
SGA               Subsidiary Grant Agreement
SIL               Specific Investment Loan
SME               Small and Medium Enterprise
TA                Technical Assistance
UNCITRAL          United Nations Commission on International Trade Law
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
VGK               Vishva Gnana Kendra (Nenasala)
WBI               World Bank Institute
WSIS              World Summit on Information Society



                    Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                 Country Director: Francoise Clottes
     Senior Global Practice Director: Gloria Grandolini
                  Practice Manager: Henry K. Bagazonzya
              Project Team Leader: Sriyani Hulugalle
                ICR Team Leader: Niraj Verma
              ICR Primary Author: Hiran Herat
                                                 SRI LANKA
                                           E-SRI LANKA PROJECT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 DATA Sheet .................................................................................................................... i

 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
 E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... vi
 H. Restructuring ............................................................................................................ vii
 I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................... viii



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 5
 3.    Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 12
 4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 18
 5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 18
 6.    Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 21
 7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........ 22


 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 43
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 47
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 52
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 70
                                 DATA Sheet

                    SRI LANKA - E-SRI LANKA PROJECT

A. Basic Information
                                                               e-Sri Lanka
Country:           Sri Lanka             Project Name:
                                                               Development Project
Project ID:        P081771               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA
ICR Date:                                ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                               Democratic Socialist
Lending Instrument: SIL                  Borrower:
                                                               Republic of Sri Lanka
Original Total
                   SDR 36.3 Mil.        Disbursed Amount: 36.9 Mil. SDR
Commitment:
Revised Amount:    SDR 43.3 Mil.
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA)

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                     Revised / Actual
    Process            Date         Process          Original Date
                                                                         Date(s)
Concept
                                Effectiveness:        01/25/2005       01/25/2005
Review:
                                                                       09/01/2005
                                                                       03/02/2009
Appraisal:        08/24/2004    Restructuring(s):                      08/12/2009
                                                                       04/26/2011
                                                                       12/02/2011
                                Mid-Term
Approval:         09/21/2004                          07/01/2007       01/09/2008
                                Review:
                                Closing:              12/31/2009       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory


                                        i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:           MS         Government:                       S
Quality of                             Implementing
                             U                                           MS
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                            MU                                           MS
Performance:                           Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                  Rating
     Performance                              (if any)
Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                         -
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
DO rating before                        Quality of
                              S                                          -
Closing/Inactive status:                Supervision (QSA):

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                         Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Communication Technologies                                 60%               60%
General Public Management                                  30%               30%
Education                                                  10%               10%



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                   33%                33%
Infrastructure services for private sector development    17%                34%
Micro, small and medium enterprise support                17%
Rural services and infrastructure                         33%                33%

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                     At ICR                    At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou            Praful C. Patel
Country Director:               Francoise Clottes             Peter C. Harrold
Practice Manager:             Henry K. Bagazonzya               Simon Bell
Project Team Leader:            Sriyani Hulugalle               Nagy Hanna
ICR Team Leader:                   Niraj Verma
ICR Primary Author:                Hiran Herat



                                            ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting the use of information and
communication technology to: (i) generate growth, employment and equity; (ii) provide
affordable access to means of information and communication, including access by citizens and
businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and enhance the
competitiveness of industries, small and medium enterprises and other private sector entities.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                   Baseline         Values (from                             Achieved at
          Indicator                                                    Revised Target
                                    Value             approval                              Completion or
                                                                          Values
                                                    documents)                              Target Years
Indicator:
1. Improved access and use of
ICT in target areas (as
measured by number of
beneficiaries in target
communities using telecentres
on a regular basis to improve          0                33,000              40,000              43,475
their communication
opportunities and access to
services – e.g. Health,
Education, Employment &
Govt.)
2. User satisfaction with
applications established under
the e-society grant mechanism          0                    70                70                  71 1
with a satisfaction rate of
70%.
3. 7.5% of target beneficiaries
(7.5 mn. citizens and
businesses) conducting                 0              7,500,000           7,500,000           11,088,886
transactions with the
central government on-line
4. Reach 4.7score on the
                                      3.46                  4.70             4.70                 4.0
business usage subscale of the



1
 Community assistance program 77%; partnership assistance program 60%; replication assistance program 72%;
additional financing 74%; overall average 71%.




                                                      iii
NRI index
5. 10,000 jobs created in ICT
                                       20,000              60,000                60,000               75,107
industry (IT-enabled services

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target
                                                                        Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
                                    Baseline      Values (from
Indicator                                                               Revised       Completion or Target
                                    Value         approval
                                                                        Target Values Years
                                                  documents)

Indicator 1: Re-Engineering
Government
1. 50 government organizations
are connected under LGN Phase             N/A                  50               50                       74
3
2 Number of government
agencies with an operational                0                  380             380                       495
portal or Web site
3. 20 additional e-services
created for and used by citizens,
                                            0                  20               20                       25
private sector and public sector
(G2G, G2C and G2B)
                                                                                                       a)
                                                                                              Average Time taken :
4. % reduction in average time                                                                     2 hrs 4mins
taken to obtain government                                                                 % reduction over 2013- 29%
services by citizens and the               0/0              20/70             20/70
level of satisfaction (70%                                                                             b)
satisfaction).                                                                            (Highly Satisfied + Satisfied)
                                                                                                      88%,
                                                                                           moderately Satisfied 10%
5. 50 % of government                       0                  50               50        Level of compliance to the
organizations are compliant                                                               major 14 key items of e gov
with e-government                                                                         policy - 70%
policy(total organizations 1200)
                                                                                          89 2 Div Secretariats
6. 200 divisional secretariats                                                            (Colombo, Putalum,
implement civil registry e-                 0                  200             200        Kurunegala, Kaluthara,
government application                                                                    Matale and Nuwaraeliya
                                                                                          Districts)




2
  There was a legal issue preventing issuing birth, marriage and death certificates by using the system. Further
implementation was stopped until amendment to the original act was approved. The issue was that the formats designed
by the system were different from the formats defined in the regulation. The issue was settled and in December 2013,
the Legal Draftsman formally issued the Electronic Transactions (e-Population) Regulation to be published in the
Government Gazette which will legalize the issue of e-Birth certificate which has already being piloted in 5 districts.
The system will be installed in the remaining Divisional Secretariats in 2014.




                                                          iv
7. 850 government officers are
trained to use ICT infrastructure
                                       0            850        850                   850
effectively in the organizations
covered under LGN Phase 3

Indicator 2: e-Policy,
Leadership and Institutional
Development
1. Trained CIO teams
responsible for e-transformation
                                                                                   30%
established within 30% of the          0            30          30
                                                                            (165 organizations)
remaining government agencies
(550 selected agencies)
2. 5% annual improvement in
rating of ICT policy                   0             5          5                   27%
environment using NRI index
3. 70% of users are aware of
                                                                             84% awareness
and are able to use standard           0            70          70
based local language computing                                                 72% Usage
Indicator 3: RTN
                                                                                  Dropped
Development
Indicator 4 and 6: Telecenters
& E-Society
                                                                                    a)      40
1. 40 telecentres established in                                                  b)      100%
underserved areas out of which                                            As these telecenters were
                                     0/0/0      40/70/25     40/70/25
70% will be operational and                                                recently established it is
25% financially sustainable.                                              still too early to assess the
                                                                            financial sustainability.
2. a) 40% of telecenter users are
                                                                                 a) 40.5%
women; b) 70% of users are            0/0        40/70         40/70
                                                                                 b) 54.3 %
youth
3. % increase in number of
replication locations
(telecentres, government/private
sector institutions and                0            20          20                 24.2%
development partners) using
applications developed under
the e-Society Grants
Indicator 5: ICT Education
and Industry Promotion
Number trained under ITES
Skills Certification Programs       SCP = 0   SCP = 1,000   SCP = 1,000         SCP=1,053
(SCP) and trained the trainer       TOT = 0    TOT = 50      TOT = 50            ToT=55
(ToT) program




                                                v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP                Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
                                                                             No disbursements
  1    12/25/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
                                                                                     made
  2    06/03/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      5.43
  3    10/26/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     10.67
  4    05/12/2006       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     13.57
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  5    10/27/2006                                                                       14.33
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  6    06/15/2007                                                                       16.05
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  7    12/14/2007                                                                       19.60
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  8    05/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              21.71
  9    12/23/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              23.81
 10    06/26/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              25.60
 11    12/14/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              31.44
 12    08/18/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              35.64
 13    07/12/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              35.86
 14    06/14/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     37.94
 15    02/03/2012       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     41.70
 16    06/29/2012       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     47.45
 17    08/22/2013       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     47.46




                                              vi
H. Restructuring

                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                       Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                           & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in USD
                         DO      IP
                                        millions
                                                     SDR 3.6 mil. was transferred
  09/01/2005       No       S     S          10.67   towards Tsunami Rehabilitation
                                                     relief
                                                     Amendments to Part A, C and E
                                                     of Schedule 2 (project
                                                     description and changing the
                                                     name of the RTN component to
                                                     Broadband Communication
  03/02/2009       No      MS     MS         24.25   Infrastructure (BCI)), amend
                                                     sections 3.04 and 3.05 C to
                                                     reflect the changing governance
                                                     and operating environment and
                                                     reallocating budget between
                                                     components
                                                     Reallocation of funds amongst
                                                     components and extension of the
  08/12/2009       No      MS     MS         28.06
                                                     closing date to December 31,
                                                     2011
                                                     RTN component dropped and
                                                     SDR 6.5 mil cancelled. Re-
  04/26/2011       No       S     S          37.62
                                                     allocate SDR 1.6 mil. among
                                                     remaining components
                                                     Extension of closing date to
  11/02/2011       No       S     S          40.08
                                                     March 31, 2012




                                       vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1. Context at Appraisal

1.1.1. Country and sector background: The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY 2003-2006 developed by the World Bank and the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) built on the poverty reduction strategy of Sri Lanka that outlined six core
areas: building a supportive macroeconomic environment; reducing conflict-related
poverty; creating opportunities for pro-poor growth; investing in people; empowering
the poor and strengthening governance; and implementing effective monitoring and
evaluation systems.

1.1.2. Within this framework, the Bank supported the three overarching themes of
growth, peace, and equity. In its e-Sri Lanka: an ICT Development Road Map,
GOSL had identified information and communication technology (ICT) as a means of
achieving these goals-through technological and institutional transformation of key
sectors of the economy. The e-Sri Lanka Development Project evolved as a response
to the GOSL roadmap for ICT and was expected to assist GOSL to: (i) develop the
necessary capacity to lead and implement an ambitious ICT program; (ii) strengthen
the information infrastructure serving the poor and rural areas; (iii) create an enabling
environment for the knowledge economy; (iv) develop specialized ICT skills and
broad ICT literacy at all levels of education; (v) deliver faster, more efficient, and
more transparent government services to all citizens and businesses; (vi) use ICT as a
lever for social development; and (vii) create jobs through a dynamic and competitive
ICT sector and through diffusion of ICT among SMEs.

1.1.3. Although Sri Lanka had strong political commitment, proximity to major ICT
centers in India and East Asia and an emerging base of ICT professionals, several
factors had constrained Sri Lanka’s e-development. These included: (i) poor
coordination of ICT related policies and programs; (ii) a low level of ICT use within
government and among small and medium enterprises (SMEs); (iii) an ICT industry
consisting mainly of SMEs lacking institutional support for finance and marketing;
(iv) low ICT literacy; (v) information and communication infrastructure concentrated
in urban areas; (vi) lack of public access points to make ICT affordable to the majority
of the population; and (vii) an underdeveloped legal environment to create trust in
electronic transactions. The e-Sri Lanka project sought to address these challenges,
while contributing to overall development of the country.

1.1.4. Rationale for Bank involvement: Support from the Bank was sought to help
implement the roadmap for ICT which depended on a holistic program with
appropriate investments in policies, institutions, and skills. The Bank – which was the
only external funding agency involved at the start of the project – was well positioned
to provide the support given its experience in ICT in various countries; experience of
investing in the telecom industry in the past and international experience with similar
programs; and complementarities with other programs. It was also recognized that for
the Bank, the experience could help in replication in other countries.




                                           1
1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1. The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting the use of
information and communication technology to: (i) generate growth, employment and equity;
(ii) provide affordable access to means of information and communication, including access
by citizens and businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and
enhance the competitiveness of industries, small and medium enterprises and other private
sector entities.


1.3. Revised PDO and Key Indicators

1.3.1. The PDO was not revised during the project implementation period. During the
additional financing phase (2012) some indicators under Component 3 were dropped
or revised as listed below 3. While many of the original indicators were surpassed, a
number of new intermediate targets were introduced due to the need for scaling up of
activities, including enhancement of government connectivity, scaling up pilot
activities and expanding training coverage (see section 1.6). In addition, indicators
were added to capture progress on the enabling environment/policy changes and the
communication approach. The changes to intermediate indicators were as follows:
Indicators that were added:                                    Indicators that were dropped:
• 50 government sector organizations to be connected to        • 30% of population to have
   Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3;                        access to private phone
• 200 divisional secretariats to implement civil registry e-      connections. RTN component
   government application;                                        dropped (see Section 2.2);
• 50% of government organizations compliant with e-            • 30% of population to have
   government policy (total reorganizations 1200);                internet access (excluding
• 850 government officers to be trained to use ICT                telecenters) in targeted areas.
   infrastructure effectively in the organizations covered        RTN component dropped (see
   under LGN Phase 3;                                             Section 2.2);
• 70% of users are aware of and are able to use standard       • RTN network: (a) Constructed
   based local language computing.                                in deep South and North east
• Percentage reduction in average time taken to obtain            Regions within two years of
   government services by citizens and the level of               the licenses awarded; and (b)
   Satisfaction (70% satisfaction);                               Provide dedicated connectivity
• No. of replication locations (telecentres, government/          to telecenters.
   private sector institutions and development partners)
   using applications developed under the e-Society Grants;
• Numbers trained under ITES Skills certification
   Programs and train the trainer (ToT) program.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1. The main beneficiaries of the project were government agencies, private sector
especially the ICT sector, civil society and public at large including in rural areas (and
including women, poor and youth).




3
    See also Section 2.2



                                             2
1.5. Original Components

1.5.1. The project supported six components. Financial assistance was allocated to
support modernization of government services and to improve access to information
infrastructure and services. Other programs provided technical assistance to build
capacity for ICT leadership, improve policies for ICT diffusion, provide ICT literacy,
promote ICT education and exports, and mobilize resources and innovation in ICT
applications to meet priority social needs (see Annex 1). Synergy between all these
elements was seen as a key success factor for the project and the e-Sri Lanka vision.

1.5.2. The ICT Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development Program was
expected to build ICT leadership capacity. Leadership was principally located in the
newly-formed ICT Agency, which was to design and adapt the overall e-Sri Lanka
initiative, coordinate implementation, manage and mobilize resources, promote
governance and enabling environment for ICT investment, produce technology
standards, policy and implementation guidelines and ensure monitoring of programs.

1.5.3. The ICT Human Resources Development and Industry Promotion Program
aimed to generate growth and employment by enhancing the competitiveness of the
domestic ICT industry and ICT-enabled services, promoting ICT diffusion in the
private sector, and producing much-needed ICT-skilled human resources. The
principal target groups for this program were ICT industry and ICT training
institutions. To implement this program and to deliver these outcomes, GOSL
established the ICT Capacity Building Fund (ICBF). The Fund was to use competitive
grants and contracting on a fee-for-service basis to find subprograms and studies.

1.5.4. The Regional Telecommunications Network (RTN) Development Program
targeted populations in the poorest regions of the country that had low connectivity or
were situated in the conflict-affected regions. The program was expected to promote
competitive and affordable telecommunications services for users, particularly the
poorer segments of society, and was expected to integrate communities throughout the
country, providing appropriate channels for e-government, e-commerce, and e-
learning services. Least-cost subsidies were to be provided to regional operators to
extend access in rural areas and encourage private participation in the sector. RTNs
were to connect 200 Telecenters under the Telecenter Development Program.

1.5.5. The Telecenter Development Program, called VGK, (or Vishva Gnana
Kendra, or Nenasala), aimed to empower the population in rural areas of the South,
North, and East through affordable community access to ICT. Telecenters were to be
progressively established in rural areas to serve the local population (farmers, students,
SMEs, women, youth, and marginalized groups). Voucher schemes were to augment
demand from target populations. The program was also expected to contain a
community outreach component that was expected to enable distance learning for the
target population, computer literacy training for teachers in rural VGK areas, and use
of VGK facilities by rural secondary schools in support of their academic programs.
Grassroots initiatives were expected to generate telecenter services to be funded under
the e-Society Fund (e-SF) program.

1.5.6. The Reengineering Government Program pursued major improvements in
GOSL’s efficiency, transparency, effectiveness, and quality of services. It was
expected to expand already identified fundamental governance and public

                                            3
management reforms by reengineering public sector work processes for strategic use
of ICT.

1.5.7. The e-Society Program sought to promote the innovative use of ICT to meet
the economic and social needs of the most vulnerable groups in Sri Lanka; to develop
approaches to scale up successful applications; and to empower civil society with
affordable access to information, communication, and relevant local content.
Competitive grants were expected to fund pilot projects implemented by community
organizations, NGOs, private companies, public and social-sector institutions.


1.6. Revised Components

1.6.1. Additional Financing (AF) of US$11 million was approved in 2012. AF was to
support the implementation of expanded activities that were to scale up the project's
impact and development effectiveness by: (i) consolidating existing high impact
activities including e-Government applications, common platforms and service
delivery points; (ii) bridging gaps in ICT infrastructure, training, establishing technical
standards, regulations and legislative areas (iii) completing and enhancing minimum
enabling environment for the above to function; and (iv) using the available services
effectively. The AF entailed the following changes: (i) changes in the intermediate
outcome indicators and results framework (see Section 1.3), (ii) changes in the project
components, and extension of Closing Date to implement additional financing from
March 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013.


1.7. Other significant changes

1.7.1. Prior to the AF, the project had gone through several amendments which are:
    • September 1, 2005, SDR 3.6 million was transferred towards the Tsunami
       Rehabilitation relief;
    • March 2, 2009, amending Part A, C and E of Schedule 2 (project description
       and changing the name of the RTN component to Broadband Communication
       Infrastructure (BCI)), amending sections 3.04 and 3.05 C to reflect the
       changing governance and operating environment and reallocating budget
       between components;
    • August 12, 2009, reallocating funds amongst components and extending the
       closing date to December 31, 2011;
    • April 26, 2011, cancelling the Regional Telecommunication Network
       (RTN/BCI) component to be implemented by the government and dropping the
       associated three intermediate indicators (see Section 2.2 and Annex 2,
       Component 3). Cancelling SRD 6.5 million from the RTN component and
       reallocating the remaining SDR 1.6 million from this component among the
       other five components.
    • December 2, 2011, extending the Closing Date to March 31, 2012.




                                            4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

(a) Soundness of the background analysis

2.1.1. The preparation of the e-Sri Lanka project entailed significant technical work
and analysis and found that a comprehensive e-development strategy for Sri Lanka, if
successfully implemented, could help accelerate economic growth as appropriate
investments in ICT had done in other countries. The Bank was well positioned to
strategically support ICT as an integral part of a national development strategy for the
reasons outlined in Section 1.1. A broad-based and strategic approach was considered
best to address policy and infrastructure issues that could not be effectively addressed
through ad hoc computerization. Project preparation drew on best practices in e-
government from Singapore and Andhra Pradesh; in telecenters from India and Chile;
and in the software industry from Silicon Valley and Bangalore.

(b) Assessment of the Project Design

2.1.2. At the design stage, the project benefited from earlier experience of the World
Bank in supporting a competitive market for telecommunications services in Sri Lanka,
as well as the Bank’s experience in implementing technology and regulatory reform
projects around the world. The project components were comprehensive in their
coverage and together constituted an ample response to the objectives of the
government’s vision for ICT development. The project design supported the principles
of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY 2003-2006 through creating an
effective ICT platform supporting e-government services and expanding outreach and
quality of such services across the country, including in the more economically poorer
areas of the country.

2.1.3. At the same time, the project built on the international experience and lessons
learned in the course of implementing technology and regulatory reforms in several
countries. The implementation arrangements reflected this. It acknowledged the
importance of the institutional infrastructure for successful implementation of
regulatory reform, and the necessity of local capacity building and improvement of the
quality of legislation process for ensuring long-term sustainability of the reform’s
results. The project incorporated lessons from the countries mentioned above and
ideas such as the adoption of a multi-operator environment to improve service and
access, and reliance on smart subsidies to extend service to remote areas were drawn
from such experiences. Experience of info-Dev Program 4 and the Development
Gateway Foundation in administration of innovative ICT grants programs was
incorporated in the design of e-Society and the Institutional Capacity Building Fund
(ICBF). The project reflected worldwide e-government experience that suggests that
centrally guided, citizen-focused programs were better than multiple, agency-centered
programs, in that they better align ICT investments with public sector reforms and
priorities, achieve economies of scale, ensure interoperability across systems and


4
  The info-Dev Program is housed at the World Bank and focuses on supporting the use of ICT to promote
sustainable development and poverty reduction.



                                                  5
information sharing across agencies, avoid duplication in technology investments, and
offer opportunities for integration and transformation across government “silos.”

2.1.4. It should be noted that there were no pre-existing models of Bank financed
projects that took such a wide, holistic and strategic approach to the use of ICT in
support of overall country development strategies. In that context, the e-Sri Lanka
project was innovative.

2.1.5. However, three factors affected the quality of the design of the project:
    a) The PDO formulation set broad and far-reaching economy-wide ultimate
       objectives (enhance growth, employment, and equity). While, as discussed in
       section 3 below, the project contributed positively to those objectives, the
       actual impact of the project on these broad objectives is inherently difficult to
       measure, creating a problem of objective attribution of the project’s results to
       the PDO.
    b) The project’s design relied heavily on the institutional capacity of the
       implementing agency (ICTA) to conduct complex procurement and financial
       management processes. While the need to enhance this capacity was identified
       as one of the risks to the project (see section d below), in the initial stages, the
       Bank should have worked closely with and guided the borrower to enhance the
       institutional capacity in line with the requirements for project implementation.
    c) The project’s design incorrectly estimated the ability of the private sector to
       provide services needed as part of the project. This led to delays in project
       implementation and to a significant (and unplanned) increase in project
       expenditures focused on building capacity in the implementing agency to
       undertake tasks that were expected to be outsourced to private sector providers.
       An unintended result of this was the significant growth of the implementing
       agency to more than 80 staff by the end of the project.

(c) Adequacy of Government’s Commitment

2.1.6. The Government showed a strong commitment evidenced by its preparation of
ICT roadmap and its request to the Bank for support for the e-Sri Lanka project. The
Government’s commitment remained strong throughout project implementation as
evidenced by the continued support to ICTA and high level of engagement. Budgetary
support was provided to ICTA throughout the project period, and there is indication
that government support to ICTA will remain going forward.

(d) Assessment of Risks

2.1.7. Several risks were identified during project preparation and risk mitigation
measures were incorporated into the project design as follows:

   •   Change in government strategy leading to decreased support of ICT reforms:
       ICTA was to invest in establishing mutual understanding with all major parties
       and interest groups in the country to ensure broad ownership of the project;
   •   Risks due to comprehensive coverage, multi-sectoral nature, interdependence
       among components and complexity: Bank assistance was phased to take a
       flexible programmatic approach, focus on a coherent set of subprograms,
       provide a clear governance framework, start with pilots in e-government and
       telecenter programs and promote maximum outsourcing to the private sector;

                                            6
   •   Disruptions in the political process would distract the primary sponsors from
       this project: Project was expected to build a broad consensus, take a
       programmatic approach, and to be flexible to adjust to changes brought by
       political developments;
   •   ICTA had no experience in implementing Bank projects. TA was to be
       provided to ICTA to define the roles, responsibilities, and individual work
       programs. Staff was to be accorded competitive salaries and incentives for
       career development to attract and retain professional talent;
   •   On the infrastructure network and telecenter developer program, there is lack
       of interest in bidding for the RTN licenses or defaults on access obligations.
       The newly licensed operators may be arbitrarily regulated: There were many
       service providers in Sri Lanka who were expected to bid for the RTN licensing.
       GOSL sought to attract a wide set of bidders, adopted performance based
       incentives and provided detailed information on the operations of the RTN in
       the RFP. ICTA was expected to monitor and certify progress while the private
       operators retained the right to international arbitration;
   •   Telecenters may not become financially sustainable: Telecenter operators and
       support institutions were to be provided training and technical assistance. As e-
       government services grew and use increased, sustainability was expected to be
       enhanced; and
   •   e-Society Fund (e-SF)/ICBF: Lack of demand from the local communities
       leading to insufficient number of proposals or to low impact proposals: NGOs
       and local agencies’ knowledge of local issues was to be mobilized and used to
       identify priorities. Technical assistance, financial training, and advice were to
       be provided during inception and for a limited duration thereafter.

2.1.8. A World Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the economic and
sector work (ESW) that underpinned the project was undertaken. In particular, QAG
ratings were based on the fact that this ESW helped build consensus within the
government and particularly the Bank to pioneer this project and overcome resistance
to assist this new sector. The QAG review rated the sector work as high quality,
mainly because the work was timely and responsive to the expressed need of the client,
was carried out in innovative ways that engaged top policy makers and stakeholders,
and provided a basis for action and financing.

2.2. Implementation

2.2.1. The following factors affected project implementation:

2.2.2. Factors having a positive impact
- Strong government support: The government identified ICT as a means of
    achieving peace, growth and equity through technological and institutional
    transformation of key sectors of the economy. Government commitment towards
    the project remained strong throughout the implementation. This is evidenced by
    the strong support to ICTA, a professional, government agency that implemented
    the project, while supporting the overall development of the ICT sector in the
    country.




                                          7
-   Active involvement of ICTA on consolidation and development of the sector:
    ICTA was instrumental in assisting the government in strengthening the policy
    framework for the digital economy5. ICTA led the successful unification of the
    eight ICT industry associations, and helped create SLASSCOM—a promising
    coalition of software and BPO companies. ICTA staff also participated in several
    government IT-related Tender Boards and assisted ministries and agencies in their
    capacity as technical experts. ICTA also pioneered the creation of the current
    Chief Innovation Officer function and the development of CIO staff with a
    mandate to promote electronic services and ICT usage within their respective
    agencies which supported project implementation.
-   Expansion of the project to previously inaccessible areas of the country
    increased its outreach and results. Until 2009 the government was unable to
    implement several initiatives envisaged under the project in the North and the
    North-East of the country due to instability in the area. Once the area stabilized,
    the government went ahead with implementation in these two provinces. The
    additional financing approved in 2012 by the Bank was also instrumental in
    completing these activities in the North and the North East.
-   Costs savings enhanced efficiency: Following the mid-term review (MTR)
    several changes were made to the implementation arrangements which led to
    substantial progress and cost savings; including, formation of technology teams,
    establishment of Sri Lanka Computing Emergency Readiness Team (SLCERT)
    and other in-house staffing initiatives such as the Private Sector and e-Society
    teams.

2.2.3. Factors having a negative impact
- Changes in management at ICTA during the early years of implementation of
    the project led to a phase of delays in project implementation. These shortcomings
    were resolved by late 2007.
- Procurement and financial management shortcomings led to delays in project
    implementation in the initial stages (see Section 2.4).
- Difficulties in awarding a contract for the provision of cable connectivity led to
    the cancelation of one component of the project (Component 3: Rural
    Telecommunication Network (RTN) Program, see Annex 2).
- Multiple reporting obligations on ICTA 6resulted in administrative burden that
    affected ICTA’s timeliness of response during some stages of implementation of
    the project. However this ultimately did not affect the overall performance of the
    project.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1. M&E Design: ICTA maintained an oversight and integration role on M&E,
but outsourced the M&E of project progress as per project design. The outsourcing
was expected to capitalize on economies of scale through combining common
activities, while ensuring compatibility and consistency of approach across all
program areas. The consultants were able to develop a strong and sustainable M&E
capacity within ICTA. ICTA created a unit and placed qualified staff to oversee this
function. In addition to the regular M&E services provided by the firm, ICTA

5
  Such as the Electronics Transactions Act of 2006 and the Computer Crime Act of 2007, and e-Government Policy
of 2008
6
  Stemming from ICT Act, Companies Act, Public Enterprise rules and DCA.

                                                      8
recruited external evaluation experts to perform impact assessment at mid-term and
project completion and ex-post evaluation. External evaluation performed by
international experts helped in comparing e-Sri Lanka experiences against
international experiences and drawing on lessons learned in formulation of
recommendations.

2.3.2. M&E Implementation: To effectively manage the M&E firm, ICTA set up an
internal M&E management unit headed by internal M&E specialist, which
significantly improved its capacities in developing log frames and result-based
frameworks (RBF) to define indicators for performance measuring and M&E, and
developing M&E plans including the necessary institutional and managerial
arrangements. In addition, the M&E Unit gained experience in the design, planning
and supervision of surveys and the organization of focus group discussions.
Furthermore, as Bank implementation support reports confirm, the staff of the M&E
Unit improved its analytical capacities and skills in critically assessing and
questioning facts and identifying how M&E could support and complement project
management.

2.3.3. M&E Utilization: The implementation of the e-Sri Lanka project was closely
monitored in accordance with the M&E plan developed under phase I of the
consultancy. The majority of data generated through project implementation (Nenesala
users and training participants) was collected on a monthly basis using the data
collection instruments developed. To gather baseline data against outcome indicators
developed, five evaluation surveys were conducted in 2007. Based on the agreed set of
selected indicators, periodical evaluations (four final evaluations were conducted)
focused on the achievement of developmental outcomes and impacts. The findings of
the evaluations were consolidated, discussed and commented upon in Evaluation
Reports and used to refine training methods, improve quality and content of training
materials, provide grass root support to e-society programs, etc. The reports, where
possible, also comprised recommendations on: (i) potential for improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of e-Sri Lanka implementation, and (ii) methods to
improve the M&E of the various programs and projects.

2.3.4. M&E capacity was also built among partners and contractors of many e-Sri
Lanka projects. The Regional Impact Teams and the staff of survey consultants, were
made aware of the result-oriented approach used in the M&E methods of e-Sri Lanka
and were trained to focus their assessments and data collection efforts accordingly. As
a result, the M&E unit was able to get the required level of collaboration from key
project stakeholders (see under lessons learned). At the end of the consultant contract
in 2011, the ICTA M&E unit took over the responsibility of M&E activities under the
project. This unit continues and is funded by the government budget. During project
implementation, the M&E unit produced timely quarterly performance reports. In
addition M&E unit was engaged in demonstrating results and lessons learned through
workshops to various stake holders within the government.

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1. The project did not entail any major environmental risk and did not include any
construction or land acquisition. The project was rated as category “C”. There were no
issues in compliance with environmental safeguards. This was an e-development and
information and communication technology (ICT) sector reform project, primarily
involving policy and institution-building components.
                                           9
2.4.2. The project did not entail any social risk or risk of adverse social impact. On
the contrary, the project contributed to social development, with a special emphasis on
integrating the poorest populations of the South and North East regions of the country
through the promotion of affordable access to information and communication,
thereby narrowing the digital divide between the west of the country and these
provinces. Under the project’s participatory approach, government stakeholders were
engaged in the e-Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development Program and the
Reengineering Government Program; industry and academia were engaged in the ICT
Human Resources Development and Industry Promotion Program; the private sector,
through the Regional Telecommunication Network program; rural populations,
through the Telecenter Development Program; and the poorest and most vulnerable
populations, through the e-Society Program.

2.4.3. With respect to financial management (FM), the project experienced
significant challenges at various stages of project implementation. It took two years
for an acceptable financial management system to be in place and for the staff (with
high turnover) to become familiar with procedures agreed in the Financing Agreement.
These deficiencies were addressed by ICTA with the assistance of the Bank and by the
time of the MTR (2008), financial management of the project was assessed as
satisfactory. 7

2.4.4. During implementation, starting as early as 2006 and until project closure at
the end of 2013, several challenges regarding procurement were encountered. While
these challenges were noted by the Bank’s team and management, no timely actions
were taken to ensure compliance with Bank’s procurement guidelines as agreed in the
Financing Agreement. The Bank should have done its due diligence and provided
support to the client to comply with Bank procurement procedures from the beginning
of the project implementation.

2.4.5. The issues stemmed from ICTA’s practice of following its own procedures
with respect to recruitment, compensation and allocation of costs, instead of Bank
procurement procedures. These issues arose in part on account of a stand-alone
document called the ‘Loan Covenant’ that was signed on January 13, 2004 between
the Bank, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Science and Technology, empowering
ICTA to “set its own financial and administrative procedures and mechanisms
furthering full independence in relation to the recruitment levels, remuneration and
schemes”. However, the Bank’s team did not clarify to the Government that this Loan
Covenant was superseded by the Project’s Financing Agreement, which created the
obligation to follow Bank’s procurement guidelines. As a result, ICTA continued to
follow its own procedures with respect to recruitment, compensation and allocation of
costs with the concurrence of the Bank. In this aspect, the Bank’s management and the
task team at large should have been more proactive and worked closely with ICTA to
properly document and bring this matter to closure, which was not done.




7
 Quarterly interim unaudited financial reports (IUFRs) were submitted to the Bank. There were no outstanding
audit reports for the Project and all audit reports were found satisfactory to the Bank. The project audits received
“unqualified” opinions of the audited financial statements and no major systems and control issues were identified
by the auditors during the course of the audits.



                                                        10
2.4.6. A Fiduciary Review was conducted in March 2014. The review found that the
project initial design called for a small number of ICTA staff and the reliance on
outsourcing of services needed, therefore, the IOC category was deliberately limited.
However, lessons learned from slow implementation prior to 2006 contributed to a
significant change in the project’s implementation design and approach, including
reversing the idea of outsourcing to rely on in-house capacity. This change of strategy
called for increasing the number of ICTA contractual staff. It is important to note that
this change of design contributed significantly to the project’s achievements. However,
the Bank and the Government should have agreed to restructure the project to
reallocate the proceeds of the loan from the consultants’ category to the incremental
operating costs (IOC) category. In the absence of restructuring, confusion on the
proper classification of ICTA staff vis-a-vis consultants remained throughout the life
of the project, resulting in the withdrawal of funds from the wrong disbursement
category.

2.4.7. The achievements of the project show that this matter did not hamper
achievement of project outcomes and the quality of hiring has been determined to be
good overall. Nonetheless, this constitutes a gap in implementation and supervision
and is something that should have been clarified and resolved during implementation
(see lessons learned section).

2.4.8. It should also be noted that under the first Credit the government had not
signed the Subsidiary Grant Agreement (SGA) with its implementing agency (ICTA),
as was required per the Credit Agreement between the IDA and the Government. The
Bank failed to provide guidance to the Government and ICTA to rectify this at the
time.

2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1. The project achieved its objectives and has successfully created the platform
for ICT development in Sri Lanka.

2.5.2. Key elements for project sustainability are in place with:
    a) ICTA’s staff and operating cost being funded by the Budget. Discussions with
       the treasury officials indicate continued commitment to support ICTA through
       the budget, even while encouraging ICTA to establish inter-ministry
       arrangements to capture the service provision revenues from ICTA services;
    b) The majority of Telecenters (around two third) assessed as financially viable.
       This compares favorably to the international experience of such entities, which
       is around 50% viability in similar centers.

2.5.3. ICTA has adequate capacity and is well placed to sustain progress made under
the project; to carry forward ICT reforms, and to provide effective citizen-
centered/business friendly government, to empower the poor and disadvantaged
groups through increased and affordable ICT tools and to develop ICT leadership.

2.5.4. The need for sustained interest and efforts in supporting ICT development in
Sri Lanka is warranted despite growing ICT literacy. This includes, inter alia, the
successful nation-wide rollout of several e-services that were launched under the
project on a pilot basis; the development of a participative and open approach toward
policy and reform design to improve the sense of ownership and engagement of
stakeholders; the need to inform users and beneficiaries at all levels (from public
                                          11
servants to citizens) about the benefits of the reforms and their rationale; and the need
to define a reliable and sustainable operational model to safeguard the quality of
infrastructure maintenance to ensure reliable access and services which will benefit all
relevant entities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1. Relevance of the objective. The PDO is in general consistent with the
Government’s roadmap for ICT which identified ICT as a means of achieving these
goals. The PDO was also relevant to the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(FY03-06) as well as CAS (09-12) during AF, as described in Section 1. The
objectives remain relevant as the government continues to focus on ICT as a tool for
ensuring growth and development as evident in budget allocations, policy statements
and activities.

3.1.2. Relevance of the design and implementation. The project was intended to
address the poor coordination of IT related policies/programs, an under developed
legal environment for electronic transactions, low ICT literacy, low level of ICT use
within government, lack of ICT infrastructure in rural areas and lack of public access
points to make ICT affordable to the majority of the population. The project was
designed to address these constraints by modernization of government services to
improve access to information, infrastructure and services. The design included
technical assistance to build capacity for ICT leadership, improve policies for ICT
diffusion, provide ICT literacy, promote ICT education and exports, and mobilize
resources and innovation in ICT applications to meet priority social needs. Synergy
between all these elements was a key success factor for the project and the e-Sri Lanka
vision.

3.1.3. The project’s design was relevant in that captured a cross country focus
including economically poorer regions as vulnerable populations often resided in
marginalized areas that were unlikely to attract private investment in information
infrastructure or other complementary areas. ICT investments require complementary
investments in human resources, local content, business process reengineering, and
legal environment in order to reap the potential benefits from productivity and
transformation. These areas were incorporated into the project design. Implementation
of the various project interventions to enhance growth, employment and equity
through affordable access to information technology was highly relevant and
outcomes have been substantive.

Rating: Considering these factors, the relevance is rated Substantial.

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1. As mentioned in section 2.1 b), the PDO formulation set broad economy-wide
ultimate objectives, which created the challenge of attribution of the project’s results
to these wide-reaching objectives. Nevertheless, as discussed below, it is clear that
significant achievements were attained under the project and as discussed in this
section, there is evidence that the project contributed to the key elements of the PDO
of growth, equity and employment. Further, the project did meet the PDO indicators,
which were well aligned with the scope of the project and captured these dimensions
                                            12
of growth, equity and employment. One of the five PDO indicators specifically
focused on employment in the ICT industry, and two other indicators measured equity
through assessing progress on the access and usage of telecenters (which aimed to
empower rural populations in the north and east of the country which were conflict
areas, and in the south, which had low levels of ICT literacy) and the quality of service
under the e-Society program (that in turn was targeted at vulnerable groups and civil
society). The remaining two PDO indicators captured growth and usage of ICT
services, and while not directly capturing economic growth, are clearly correlated
positively, as evidenced from a wide body of research that shows that ICT
development – which the indicators capture – contributes to broader economic growth.
Studies have shown that for instance, improved e-government services were correlated
to labor productivity gains, reforms, better efficiency and transparency and their
positive impact on economic growth. Studies have also shown that improved ICT
infrastructure for communication and internet – which the project supported – can lead
to growth in GDP; for instance, the Bank’s 2009 report on ICT, but also from other
reports from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
United Nations and McKinsey Global Institute. 8

3.2.2. Performance on the PDO indicators was good. Three of the five indicators –
including an indicator on equity (telecenters access and usage), growth (number of
online transactions) and employment (ICT jobs created) exceeded targeted levels. 9
The indicator on the quality of the e-Society program (measuring equity and quality of
services) was met. The fifth indicator on the business usage index, while showing an
improving trend, was not fully met at project closure. However, there has been
continued good progress in 2014 and Sri Lanka’s performance on the index that
measures this progress (NRI) improved from an overall country ranking of 57 last year
to 50. Performance on the PDO indicators was also satisfactory.

3.2.3. There is other evidence that the project contributed to establishing a platform
that enabled growth of the ICT industry. The Lanka Government portal and the Lanka
Gate middleware infrastructure provided a platform for a wide range of citizen and
business services, which helped the country improve its overall business environment
which was reflected in an increase in the Doing Business indicators/ranking. Through
support to SLASSCOM, ICTA contributed directly to the creation of a strong industry
association that in turn played a significant role in the growth of the ICT industry,
including in terms of outsourcing and exports. Notable progress was made and this
was recognized by external audiences. A few examples follow. Sri Lanka was
awarded the “Outsourcing Destination of the Year” by the National Outsourcing
Association (NOA), UK in 2013. Sri Lanka was ranked: in the top 10 most improved
countries for doing business in 2013, among the top 25 global outsourcing destinations



8
  Some select studies: Telecommunications and Economic Growth, World Bank, 2009; Information and
Communication for Development, World Bank, 2009; E-Government for Better Government, OECD, 2005;
Internet Matters, McKinsey 2011.
9
  Employment increased by more than 3.5 times the baseline value. While there is a question of attribution to the
project, and clearly ICT employment grew as a result of other initiatives as well, it is equally clear that ICTA and
the project played a significant and positive role in this. Quite apart from the enabling infrastructure, ICTA
supported many other activities that helped build capacity and supported growth of the industry. ICTA trained
private sector ICT professionals and promoted awareness (over 30,000 IT/ITES personnel benefited from this),
facilitated the formation of a strong industry association which in turn played a significant role in the growth and
development of the ICT sector, supported an accreditation program and direct communication and marketing
efforts for the industry, market research, program to support start-ups in ICT, etc.

                                                         13
by AT Kearney, and among the top 30 outsourcing destinations by Gartner. Sri Lanka
is the highest ranked country in South Asia on the United Nations e-Government index.
Growth in ICT exports – which resulted from a stronger ICT industry and
improvements in the legal, regulatory and institutional capacity that the project
contributed to 10 (see Annex 2) – were strong, and contributed to broader economic
growth.

3.2.4. The project contributed significantly to mass e-literacy and the 740 telecenters
that were established are used by over 70,000 citizens – in the rural and peripheral
areas of the country – on a monthly basis. The e-Society program reached out to
vulnerable communities and promoted grassroots level innovation (see Annex 2) while
the e-local language initiative also improved accessibility of e-government services for
all ethnic communities, thereby contributing to the objective of promoting equity.

3.2.5. The ICT infrastructure that was created was not only a vital public good that
supported citizens and businesses in their transactions, but also greatly helped
improved efficiency and transparency of government service provision. The project
supported significant improvements in service delivery of government services,
including common processes such as online tax filing, railway bookings and drivers’
license renewal (see Box 1). These are significant by themselves, but the outcomes go
beyond this and cover important dimensions of creating critical e-government market
infrastructure, promoting equity, efficiency and transparency, building capacity and
supporting growth (see Box 2 for a few illustrative examples, the table below and
Annex 2). The project has supported the transformation of e-government services in
the country and the engagement with the Bank has enabled, over the years, input of
technical knowledge, establishment of a professional implementation agency,
independence for ICTA (which otherwise may not have been possible to the same
degree) and implementation support. The achievements under the project by
component are detailed in Annex 2.

            Box 1: What ICTA means for the common citizen – a true anecdote 11
“My mom is 80 years old, educated up to 10th grade, married young, and never has been
employed. She reads and writes perfect English, having schooled during colonial times. She
runs the household efficiently and very carefully. She has never used computers, her
technological knowledge is limited to using the TV and few household appliances, however,
this is about to change. When I visited her in February 2014, she was buzzing to show me
something. Soon she told me about transferring a plot of land to one of our cousins, and told
me getting the title deed extracts was very easy, within half day they got it. I looked at her in
disbelief thinking finally her old age is catching up with her. Mine was a painful experience of
going to the land registry and wasting time on and off for at least 3 weeks, and if you know


10
   The ICT/BPO industry was a nascent industry in 2005. The industry had multiple groups without a clear voice
and fragmentation of industry policy was very apparent. ICTA bought these fragmented groups to a more organized
form and helped form SLASSCOM (the software export arm of the industry) by way of funding their activities and
coordinating the efforts in the initial stages. The strengthening of SLASSCOM enabled the industry to lobby
effectively for government support as reflected in advancements in policy (and budget) as announced from time to
time. In addition to facilitating coordination and creating an enabling environment for the industry, ICTA also
funded the industry in capacity building and creating business linkages. ICTA financed training (individual
certification, basic skills training, etc.) of approximately 35,000 ICT/BPO related personnel. ICTA also helped to:
build international and local business linkages in the ICT sector; strengthen ICT associations (e.g Spiral of
Innovation targeting newly created ICT start-ups in partnership with 23 international IT organizations, including
Microsoft, Intel and Oracle); and support ICT companies for accreditation purposes. In recent times, GoSL has
identified this sector as a high potential growth area both in terms of value and job creation potential.
11
   A Sri Lankan national and World Bank consultant.

                                                       14
how…. you would get them faster. I was not so knowledgeable those days. She laughed and
said no in Kottawa land registry is online now. Pushing for details I found out that ICTA has
carried out the e-land register project in Delkanda land registry. Amazing. More surprises yet
to come. She told me that she is going online. My niece has introduced Lanka Gate portal to
her and she is slowly using it to find out train schedules (their primary mode of travel long
distance), check fish price in the local market, and even to check postal codes. All important
day to day things.”

              Box 2: Some illustrations of e-government services supported
                                             Colombo Municipal System
The on-line rate payment system that was introduced in the Colombo Municipal System has enabled the Colombo
city residence to pay Rates, Trade Tax, Tax on Business, Market Rental, House Rental, Shop and Boutique rental
and Hawkers rental. This is a 24 hour e-service and has facilitated all tax payers to make their due payments via
internet or mobile easy cash and save time without having to stand in lines for a long period of time as was the case
prior to the introduction of this system.
                               Western Province Motor Commissioner’s Department
Under the project, the Motor Vehicle Revenue License process in the Western province was automated. In the
Western approximately 5000 revenue licenses have to be renewed on daily basis. Before automation, the
Department encountered long queues of waiting customers, volumes of manual files, delay in service delivery,
unhappy customers and staff members. Further, issue of revenue licenses were confined only to vehicles belonging
to that particular division. With automation, the issue of a revenue license has been reduced to 90 seconds on
average. Manual filing system has been abandoned. A vehicle owner in the western province can obtain the revenue
license from any DS office as all 38 DS offices in the province are connected by LGN. All data relating to a
particular vehicle is available in the system.
                                          Department of Land Commissioner
Majority of the land area in the island is owned by the state. Land commissioner is responsible for all activities
relating to state land. Land commissioner has delegated land identification and preparation of land alienation
proposals to respective Land Field Officers of the Provincial Land commissioner attached to DS offices.
Previously a citizen had to submit an application for obtaining land from the state to the DS office. Thereafter Field
Officer had to visit the location and submit his recommendation to the Divisional secretary who in turn submitted
same to the Provincial Land Commissioner and thereafter to National Land commissioner for approval. This
manual process took more than 6 months to complete. With the automation, time taken for approval has been
reduced to 2 weeks. The applicant can track progress of his application, as he receives an alert message on his
mobile phone at each of the approval stages. In addition, Land Title deed extracts can now be obtained in 30
minutes as compared to 2 days prior to this intervention.


3.2.6. For the reasons discussed above, even though the broad PDO definition created
a challenge of attribution, it is clear that the PDO indicators measured the key
dimensions of the PDO and were achieved, the intermediate indicators were also
mostly achieved, and the project contributed to the objectives of growth, equity and
employment and hence the assessment of outcomes is Satisfactory.

3.3. Efficiency

3.3.1. While the project took longer than originally anticipated, and this has a bearing
on overall costs and efficiency, overall in terms of efficiency, the project is deemed to
have achieved its objectives, and the achievements can be considered Substantial.
The additional financing project extended the closing and supported the roll out and
scaling up of activities that were remaining from the parent project.

3.3.2. The efficiency in the project was based on increased access to information by
citizens; increased public sector cost efficiency and transparency; improvement in the
quality of governmental services; reduction in transaction costs and time spent (for
government, businesses, and citizens); increased contribution to GDP by the private
sector in general and the IT industry in particular; ICT-enabled increases in
productivity across government and industries; and an enhanced policy and legal



                                                         15
environment 12. IT related exports increased from US$100 million at the start of the
project (and US$213 million in 2005) and are now in excess of US$720 million. While
other factors contributed to this, the project made a contribution as well by supporting
basic ICT infrastructure, strengthening the policy environment and the industry
association and training and capacity building, which in turn provided the enabling
framework for the industry to grow. From 2005-13 the share of ICT in total exports
increased five-fold from 1% to 5%; while the share of ICT exports to service sector
exports trebled from 5% to 15%. 13 The establishment of the government-wide intranet
has enabled government agencies to access and share each other’s information and
data seamlessly, substantially reducing government processing and transaction times
and costs. e-Procurement has provide access to tender issuance, monitoring,
evaluation, and all procurement-related transactions, and have significant economic
benefits, including transparency, lower prices resulting from increased competition,
increased participation by SMEs, diffusion of e-business practices, and lower
transaction costs and increased speed of processing tenders. The e-pension processing
and delivery system has benefited a large number of pensioners and their dependents.

3.3.3. ICTA, as an institution, compares favorably in size vis-à-vis institutions with
similar mandate, further enhancing the overall perspective of efficiency of the
project. 14

3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1. The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory, taking into account the factors
discussed in sections 3.1 to 3.3.

3.4.2. The project remains highly relevant to the country’s development objectives
and for the World Bank’s assistance strategy. Efficiency of achieving the outcomes
will also be greatly enhanced by the long-term benefits, especially those related to
provision of transparent and efficient government services, increase in specialized ICT
skills and broad ICT literacy at all levels of education and job creation through a
dynamic and competitive ICT sector.

3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

3.5.1. The project contributed to social development, with a special emphasis on
integrating the poorest populations of the South and North East regions of the country
through the use of ICTs. Under the project’s participatory approach, government
stakeholders were engaged in the e-Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development
Program and the Reengineering Government Program; industry and academia were


12
   Even though, as mentioned in section 3.2 above, these economy-wide indicators are influenced by a host of
factors, of which the project is only one.
13
   ICTA data.
14
    ICTA (80 staff at project closure; country population 21 million) compares favorably to the under
implementation similar Bank ICT projects in both Rwanda (900-1,000 staff; for a country with a population of 11
million) and Moldova (29 staff; country population of 3.5 million) (see also Annex 3).

                                                     16
engaged in the ICT Human Resources Development and Industry Promotion Program;
rural populations, through the Telecenter Development Program; and the poorest and
most vulnerable populations, through the e-Society Program. Synergies between
telecommunications, Telecenter, e-government, and e-society programs were
encouraged to render information access and service provision relevant to rural
populations (Annex 2 provides details including on the outcomes on the project’s
contributions to the spread of ICT services in rural areas). Telecenter and e-
Government survey results (Annex 5) and observations from Bank implementation
support missions clearly reinforce the overall positive results from ICTA’s initiatives.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2. The project had a substantive impact on the institutions that participated, which
included ICTA, Ministries and other government agencies. e-Sri Lanka entailed a new
institution that had to be created from scratch, building on lessons from pioneering
nations, and attracting new talents and business-like practices to the government—
drawing on local company law and endorsed by a parliament act. ICTA, through the
support from the project, was able to build its capacity as an e-leadership institution.
In addition, the project brought about change in the culture and improved efficiencies
in the use of IT by Ministries, government agencies and private sector institutions,
which has now been institutionalized within the government.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3. Ongoing and planned Bank projects at that time which supported promotion in
diverse sectors such as education, poverty reduction, and reconstruction efforts were
expected to be greatly aided by the overarching umbrella of the e-Sri Lanka program.
These ongoing projects included the North East Reconstruction Program, the
Community Development and Livelihood Project, Improving Relevance and Quality
of Undergraduate Education, and Economic Reform Technical Assistance. These
programs and others were focused on improving the investment climate and capturing
future areas of growth. The activities sponsored through other Bank projects were
expected to be substantially strengthened by (a) improving access to information and
communication tools (through e-Sri Lanka’s infrastructure and telecenter component,
which promoted content provision at government and local levels); (b) strengthening
the ICT industry and ICT education (through Industry Promotion Fund activities that
included a program for diffusion of ICT in the private sector and an awareness-
building program among SMEs and others); and (c) developing a common information
and communication platform for the whole economy.

3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1. Several beneficiary surveys were carried out during implementation (see
Annex 5). A combined survey was carried out for the Telecenter and e-Society
components. The findings of the surveys indicate that both components contributed to
high literacy rates in these communities and changed the use of ICT tools to facilitate
their daily activities. The survey indicated that the Telecenter users had gained
sufficient knowledge, skills and confidence in ICT, leading them to invest on
computers, laptops, internet connectivity, etc. It can be concluded that the impacted
communities had accepted the value and advantage of using ICT to enhance their
livelihoods and started to change their traditional ways of doing things with much
convenient and cost effective technologies. They have changed their methods of
                                          17
communication with emails, Skype and accessing of information via the internet. The
program has slowly but surely empowered the rural societies in transforming their
ways of doing things in an efficient, convenient and cost effective manner.

3.6.2. ICTA’s strategic communication program was launched to create a broad-
based awareness on all programs and projects implemented by ICTA across
government, business sector and society. A survey was carried out to assess the
effectiveness of the strategy. The conclusion was that ICTA had carried out a very
effective media campaign to promote ICTA programs and projects. The outcome was
that ICTA programs and projects were able to effect positive social changes among all
communities.

3.6.3. The Local Language Initiative (LLI) survey indicated that the LLI has been a
success as far as the key performance indicators are concerned. The level of
awareness and ability of using standard based local languages has been commendable
with 84% of awareness among users about standard based local languages and 72%
users being able to use the standard based local languages in computing.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible

4.1.    The key investments of the project were completed and continue to be
implemented. Although the government did change during project implementation, the
risk that the program would be de-railed did not materialize. Instead, ICT continued to
be a central piece of the new government’s reform program. As discussed above in
section 2 a majority of telecenters have been found to be sustainable. The program
design pioneered the first truly integrated approach to a nationwide e-development
program. It attempted to address through its six program areas all the different
building blocks which need to come together to build a successful cyber society –
enabling ordinary people, businesses and government to reap the dividends of the
knowledge economy. E-Lanka therefore has built this platform which will function as
a spring board to launch a multitude of sustainable and innovative initiatives, whether
they are by government, citizens or business. Recent progress in 2014 – such as Sri
Lanka jumping 41 places in the UN e-Government Development Index to become the
highest ranked South Asian country – is testimony to the fact that progress continues
and remains a focus area for the country. Sustainability of the e-Sri Lanka’s
achievements has been further enhanced by the Government’s desire for future Bank
involvement in this sector and the ongoing commitment for budget support for ICTA’s
operations.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1. The Bank responded in a timely manner to the needs of the Borrower by
designing and implementing this Project to enhance the access to and use of ICT, use
                                         18
of public services on-line by business and the public and enhance the competitiveness
of the private sector. The Bank was also able to utilize the experience it gained from
implementing projects 15 world-wide to ensure quality at entry in the project design
and to build in efficient implementing arrangements. The Bank engagement enabled
the establishment of ICTA as a dynamic private sector type of an agency with an
appropriate compensation package that would otherwise not have been easily possible.
The Bank team comprised experienced technical and operational staff who contributed
significantly to the project design.

5.1.2. However, as discussed above, there were also some shortcomings in design
including:
    i)     A PDO that should have been stated to more clearly capture project
           outcomes;
    ii)    Underestimation of the complexities on the RTN component leading to its
           subsequent cancellation;
    iii)   Failure to design measures to proactively address ICTA’s lack of
           experience implementing Bank projects and limited procurement capacity
           in the initial stages, even after this was identified as a risk for project
           implementation; and
    iv)    Overestimation of the private sector capacity to provide services, which
           eventually led to the need to build such capacity at ICTA.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1.3. On the technical aspects, the Bank was responsive to the Government’s
requests throughout Project implementation, and demonstrated flexibility and
understanding in the use of project resources. As and when required, the Bank
responded positively to the Government’s requests for project restructuring in
response to external environment and evolving country needs. The Bank team
included ICT professionals and this enabled provision of quality technical input at
various stages of project implementation. The Bank team’s implementation support
was appreciated by the client and clearly, in overall terms, contributed to enhancing
technical input to project implementation and to the achievement of PDOs.

5.1.4. However, there were significant areas on which the Bank team failed to act
promptly to address problems during project implementation. These include the
following:
    i)     The implementing agency followed its own procurement guidelines on
           staff recruitment, instead of those of the Bank, for the reasons identified in
           Section 2.4. Even after this was identified, the team failed to take action to
           deal with the resulting ambiguity and bring prompt resolution to this issue.
    ii)    Failure to proactively address institutional capacity shortcomings at the
           implementing agency: Given the complex nature of procurement of



15
   It should be noted that e-Sri Lanka was the first broad-based e-development project for the Bank and
its success was expected to provide a model to be replicated in other countries.



                                                  19
                 equipment involved, the Bank should have guided the Borrower to acquire
                 more IT and procurement expertise and the required TA during the design
                 stage which would have helped to mitigate the delays encountered at the
                 early stages of project implementation (see under lessons learned).
       iii)      The Bank management and task team should have been more conscientious
                 in documenting and bringing to closure some of the agreements on the
                 allocation of project proceeds to reflect the staffing costs in the correct
                 category (incremental operating costs).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.5. Overall, the Bank aimed to respond to the important needs of the client through
an innovative and comprehensive project that ultimately demonstrated important
benefits to the country. However the shortcomings at design stage affected the
implementation of the project. Similarly the failure of the Bank to promptly address
identified problems and ensure full compliance with Bank procurement guidelines
undermined the quality of the bank’s performance during implementation.

5.2.          Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1. The Government performance is rated satisfactory. The Government
demonstrated strong commitment as witnessed in its policy formulation with respect to
the ICT sector and its commitment to establish ICTA as an independent and
professionally set up organization and its support to ICTA throughout project design
and implementation. While there were some delays in the early stages of
implementation as project implementation progressed, the project received strong
support from the government and was implemented satisfactorily. Government also
showed its continued commitment to the sustainability of the project by providing
budget funds to support ICTA after the project closed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.2. Despite ICTA’s initial lack of experience in working with the Bank, lack of
knowledge of Bank procedures and confusion and implementation issues created by
the “Loan Covenant” signed in 2004 (see Section 2.4), overall outcomes are positive.
As implementation progressed ICTA was able to build its institutional capacity and
has become a dynamic organization which is capable of moving forward the
government’s ambitious program in the ICT sector. The agency has created a core
group of staff in a Government agency to share knowledge (good practices) and
provide high level technical support to Government agencies in enhancing the
information infrastructure and designing and maintaining e-Services such as e-
Revenue, online Visa, Birth, Marriage and Death certificate system, e-HRM programs,
drafting e-Laws, improving ICT literacy in the country, creating awareness and
providing ‘help desk services’ for the Government agencies in an integrated manner.
                                         20
The high level technical expertise acquired during the project has been internalized
into Government through ICTA to contribute to the next phase of ICT development.

5.2.3. Despite the overall achievements, the project experienced several
implementation difficulties. As explained above in section 2, project implementation
shows fluctuating performance at various points in time. Several procurement and
financial management issues were encountered due to lack of properly trained staff in
the initial years; there were delays in key project implementation activities including
in hiring senior management in ICTA which led to implementation delays, weaknesses
in monitoring and evaluation which was rated low in between, are some illustrations
of this. A key matter of non-compliance was that the SGA between the government
and ICTA for the parent project was not signed although this was a loan covenant.
Even for the additional financing the SGA was signed only towards the end of the
project (September 2013). While this did not directly affect project implementation
nevertheless it was a breach of a legal requirement. For these reasons, while
recognizing that but for ICTA’s role the project outcomes would not have been as
strong as they are, there were moderate shortcomings in implementation and hence
overall performance is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.4. While Government’s performance has been steady over the years, as has been
ICTA’s and while the project outcomes have been good, for which a lot of the credit
goes to ICTA, there have been a variety of implementation issues and delays as
discussed above and hence the overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.   There are important lessons to be learned from the project:

6.1.1. Problems identified must be swiftly brought to full resolution. This is
particularly important when an element of confusion or ambiguity relates to the
application of the Bank’s fiduciary guidelines or legal requirements. When problems
arise from perceived or real inconsistencies between legal documents or ambiguity,
the Bank team must involve the participation of legal experts in resolving such
inconsistencies or ambiguities. Whenever needed, the project must be restructured to
formalize the arrangements needed to address the problems identified.

6.1.2. The PDO of the project must be formulated in a way that is fully coherent with
the scope of the project. The project indicators must also be fully aligned with the
PDO and allow for ex-post verification of the success of the project in meeting its
stated objectives. Further, the PDO must provide a realistic perspective of what the
project can achieve in a way that can be objectively measured.

6.1.3. The lack of implementation capacity or experience in the implementing agency
must be addressed in a proactive way, before it translates into shortcomings in project
implementation. While this was a risk that was identified at design stages, the
mitigating measures were not fully and proactively put in place in order to avoid its
negative impact during the initial stages of implementation.
                                            21
6.1.4. When the participation of third parties is needed for the project
implementation, it is important to engage with those parties during project design to
assess realistically their ability and willingness to participate. The cancelation of the
RTN component and inability to outsource services from ICTA to private providers
exemplify areas on which the design of the project relied on unrealistic expectations
on third parties.

6.1.5. A well-established M&E system is critical for proper monitoring and
evaluation for a project. To be effective, a project M&E system should be validated
by the stakeholders and as such their strong involvement would be ensured. In the
design stage, a participatory approach was used in designing the M&E instruments for
the project. These measures led to a higher awareness of M&E among a wider
audience of stakeholders, such as primary project beneficiaries in government
organizations and in communities throughout the island. As a result, the project was
able to collect crucial information for effective project monitoring and evaluation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies – ICTA’s comments on the draft ICR, focused
primarily on two facets: one, the rating of outcomes, and, two, the assessment of
ICTA’s own performance. On the overall outcome assessment, ICTA provided
additional information that helped to document the achievements of the project, which
in turn supported the case for the project’s Satisfactory rating. On ICTA’s own
performance, ICTA pointed out that whilst the ICR recorded ICTA’s role in the
success of the e-Sri Lanka Project, it did not agree with the rating of Moderately
Satisfactory for its performance. The ICR team took a careful look at the comments
made, and edited the text to reflect feedback, where appropriate and based on
objective information. After careful consideration of the additional information
provided by ICTA, the decision was made to maintain a rating of ‘Moderately
Satisfactory’ based on the rationale outlined in section 5. ICTA also suggested an
increase in the rating of the Bank team’s performance during implementation. Here
again the comments were considered carefully, but a decision was made to maintain
unchanged the rating for the reasons outlined in this report. Other technical and data
related points and issues raised were also closely reviewed and the text edited, where it
was considered appropriate based on factual information.

(b) Cofinanciers - N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders - N/A




                                           22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                   Of Which IDA
        Components          Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                   (USD millions)
                                millions)       millions)

ICT-Policy Leadership
Institutional Development              8.00           18.63            16.63
(Including IOC)
ICT Education and Industry
                                       5.88            6.49             5.99
Promotion
Regional Telecommunication
                                     19.00             0.83             0.83
Development Network **
Telecenter Development                7.40            11.40             9.20
Re-engineering Government            35.19            37.28            13.48
e-Society                             3.53             2.94             2.94
Project Preparation Facility
                                       3.00            2.53             1.53
(PPF)
Unallocated                            1.00
Tsunami Fund *                                         5.72             5.72
          Total Project Costs        83.00            85.82            56.32
  Total Financing Required           83.00            85.82


(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage
                                   Type of   Estimate Estimate
        Source of Funds                                                 at
                                 Cofinancing (USD        (USD
                                                                    Appraisal
                                             millions)  millions)
IDA                                  53         53       56.32          66
GoSL and Donor Financing             30         30       29.50          34

*   US$5.72 million was transferred to the Tsunami Fund in 2005.
** US$8.7 million was cancelled in 2011.
*** US$11 million was approved as AF in 2012.




                                        23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Results of the project can be categorized into the following thematic areas and
outcomes:

Thematic Area                                          Outcomes
E-Government     This infrastructure was critical for achieving connectivity through the whole
Market           government sector and inclusiveness in terms of efficient provision of services to
Infrastructure   all citizens. To improve access to citizens throughout the country to government
                 eServices resulting in efficiency improvements and effectiveness in public service
                 delivery G2G, G2C and G2B.
                      • Horizontal Infrastructure - LGN, Lanka Gate;
                      • Information Systems: e-Pension, e-Population Digitalization of Birth,
                           Marriages, Death certificates, e-Revenue license, other e-Services, etc;
                      • LGN connected over 550 central and provincial government
                           organizations to provide secure electronic communications;
                      • Significant improvement in Sri Lanka’s (NRI) index ranking, specifically
                           in the category “Laws relating ICT”, which rose from 87th to 48th.
                           Adoption of 3 major e-laws;
                      • Significant improvement in Sri Lanka’s (NRI) index ranking, specifically
                           in the category “Laws relating ICT”, which rose from 87th to 48th.
                           Adoption of 3 major e-laws;
                      • Established SLCERT to mitigate and handle cyber threats, thereby
                           promoting information security;
                      • enabled the use of Credit Cards and electronic payment methods
                           (including mobile payments) to pay for government services; and
                      • Provision of about [48 ] e-services G2C.
Equity                • Reducing the digital divide between western province and other
                           provinces including North and East.
                      • Significant contribution to mass e-literacy and ICT culture in rural areas;
                      • Over 740 telecenters established and used by over 70,000 citizens on a
                           monthly basis;
                      • Partnerships established with multinational companies (such as Microsoft
                           to promote ICT usage for migrant workers),(Such as MAS Holdings, to
                           train workers of garment factories), NGOs (such as Job Search, Sanasa,
                           Sarvodaya, Telecentre.Org), and aid agencies (IDRC, UNDP);
                      • Telecenters have become breeding grounds for ICT-enabled rural
                           entrepreneurship;
                      • The e-Society component attracted international recognition and awards
                           for promoting grassroots community-implemented innovation;
                      • An e-local language initiative introduced electronic Sinhala and Tamil
                           font and numerals, certified by ISO/SLS, taking online content closer to
                           local communities; and
                      • E-Society programs have been able to develop value added products
                           through the Tele-centers creating them as delivery points for services of
                           some corporate businesses such John Keells (Tallying quotations with
                           actual prices), Intel (IT education programs), Dialog, HNB Assurance
                           (Collection insurance premium) etc.
Efficiency and        • SMS and email transmissions are now admissible as evidence in a court
Transparency               of law;
                      • Significant reduction in time of e-government services;
                      • Financial services and confidence in bank transactions have improved
                           due to the enhanced safety and security;
                      • The network of IT professionals in government serves as a launch pad for
                           mainstreaming IT in government. Build up capacity of CIOs;
                      • Financial regulations were amended to enabled the use of Credit Cards
                           and electronic payment methods (including mobile payments) to pay for
                           government services;
                      • Sri Lanka was awarded the “Outsourcing Destination of the Year” award
                           by the National Outsourcing Association (NOA), UK in 2013;

                                              24
                                •    Lanka Government portal used by over 11.5 million 16;
                                •    Overall workforce has grown from 50,159 in 2010 to 75,107 in 2013―a
                                     rise of 50% at compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 14.4%; and
                                •    Dedicated Government cloud (first of its kind in South Asia), an
                                     interoperability framework (standards to secure data sharing), and local
                                     language initiative to enable trilingual websites and databases.
Capacity                        •    Establishment of ICTA as the engine to drive the IT reforms;
                                •    Training 850 government staff and also training Nenasala officials;
                                •    Managers and professionals in the IT/ITES industry were trained to
                                     improve quality, technology and competitiveness of the industry;
                                •    In addition under AF, 55 Trainers and around 1053 staff in private
                                     companies were trained under ITES skilled training program to increase
                                     the skill base; and
                                •    Several programs conducted to promote country as a destination for IT
                                     exports and promote overseas business linkages.
Growth                          •    Creation of new jobs and enhancement of existing skills;
                                •    Increase of IT related exports in the range of $720 million; and
                                •    Newly-created ICT start-ups, in partnership with 23 international IT
                                     organizations including Microsoft, Intel, Oracle.

The activities and the outcomes under the original components and the activities under
the AF are described below.

Component 1: ICT, Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development Program:

                       Indicator                              Original/Revised Target            Actual
50 government sector org. connected under LGN                           50                        74
Phase 3
# of government agencies with operational portal or                      380                       495
website
20 additional e-services created for and used by                          20                       25
citizens, public/private sectors
% of time taken to obtain government services and                     10%/70%           Average time taken 2h 40
level of satisfaction.                                                                  min, reduction of 29%;
                                                                                        Level of satisfaction 88%
50% of government organizations compliant with e-                         50                          70
government policies
200 divisional secretariats civil registry e-                            200               89 (See Foot Note 1)
government application
850 government officers trained under LGN Phase 3                        850                       850


This component was implemented satisfactorily and the targets were met.
Considerable impact was achieved as a result of the implementation of the E-
government Policy 2010 (with more structured ICT adoption within government and
adherence to minimum policy and regulatory standards). The progress made was
reflected in the significant improvement in Sri Lanka’s Network Readiness Index
(NRI) index ranking, specifically in the category “Laws relating ICT”, which rose
from 87th to 69th position in 2013 (compiled by the World Economic Forum). With
these reforms, Sri Lanka became a regional leader in terms of legal and policy reforms
to facilitate e-transformation and transparency 17 . SMS and email transmissions are


16
     This refers to the number of hits on the portal and not individual citizens.

17
   A case in point was the posting online of the Supreme Court cases on http://www.supremecourt.lk, which has
enjoyed widespread support and has received over a million hits.



                                                             25
now admissible as evidence in a court of law. Financial services and confidence in
bank transactions have improved due to the enhanced safety and security of LANKA
SIGN. Sri Lanka was also among the first three Asia Pacific Nations to adopt the
UNCITRAL Standards for e-Commerce, and Sri Lanka was included in the first Asia-
Pacific UNCITRAL event, promoting ICTA’s role in the entire Asia-Pacific region.

As Sri Lanka’s e-government capacity increases, the country has taken an active
national, international and regional role. The aggressive communications strategy has
enhanced ICT awareness in the country, in accordance with the government’s renewed
emphasis on ICT literacy. The SLCERT – an ICTA subsidiary implemented as a
public private partnership – has continued with its information security focus across
various sectors and provided limited fee based services on cyber security and is a
member of Asia Pacific CERT. The work under the e-Sri Lanka projects has attracted
regional and international recognition, including two World Summit Awards in 2009
and three FutureGov Awards in 2011, as well as the Chairmanship of UNESCAP
2008-12.

The integrated communication program has been able to build a brand name for
ICTA/e-Sri Lanka as the agency for improving ICT literacy and penetration in the
country. In December 2013, the Legal Draftsman formally issued the Electronic
Transactions (e-Population) Regulation to be published in the Government Gazette
which legalized the issue of e-Birth certificate under the Population Register which
was piloted in 5 districts. This has led to setting up of a full-fledged e-Population
Registry. The implementation of Local Language Initiative (LLI) enabled the use of
ICT in both Sinhala and Tamil, with the development of Unicode fonts, keyboard
layouts, keyboard input, sorting, locale information and approval of Sri Lanka
Standards etc. All of which was needed for local language computing and for other
program areas such as e-Government and e-Society.

Outputs: The e-leadership component transformed the ICT framework in the country
as summarized below: (i) Supporting the adoption of three major e-laws and a series
of supporting legislation 18, as well as providing legal support and capacity building to
ensure effective implementation of the newly-adopted legislation 19; (ii) Introduction of
795 Chief Innovation officers (CIOs), within 97% out of 815 target government
organizations in Sri Lanka, as champions of e-government, with a mandate to promote
electronic services and ICT usage within their respective agencies 20; (iii) Supported an
ICT communications strategy including local and higher-profile events such as e-Asia
2009, as well as a regular media involvement in radio, TV, electronic news, and print,
in 3 languages (Sinhala, Tamil, and English); (iv) ICTA took the lead role with
Finance Ministry to prepare the Financial Regulations (FR 447/2010), which enabled
the use of Credit Cards and electronic payment methods (including mobile payments)
to pay for government services; (v) In the area of Cyber security and Cybercrime,


18
   Legislation passed included the Electronic Transactions Act No.19 of 2006, Computer Crimes Act No. 24 of
2007, Amendment (2009) to the ICT Act No. 27 of 2003, Financial Regulation Circular #447/2010 of the Ministry
of Finance on the use of Electronic Payments for Government Transactions, Government Identity Certification, and
the Policies and Procedures for ICT Usage in Government .
19
   For training, ICTA cooperated with Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Professional Organizations, the Sri Lanka
Law college, the University of Moratuwa (for the e governance MBA), the Supreme Court, Ministry of Justice, the
Estonia e-government authority and the National Institute for Smart Government (India).
20
   Including 45 ministries, 80 departments, 19 district secretariats, 271 divisional secretariats, 103 provincial
councils, and 110 statutory bodies and other government agencies.

                                                      26
ICTA established SLCERT to mitigate and handle cyber threats and incidents; and (vi)
Recognizing the need for banking sector to have a digital certificate framework to
have appropriate security, the National Certificate Authority was established through
SLCERT at the request of the national check-clearing house, LankaClear, which
became the first financial sector specific certificate Authority issuing Digital
Certificates to commercial banks and was branded LANKA SIGN.

Under AF, two components were added to supplement the original component: (i) An
Integrated Communications strategy was developed and implemented at the national,
district and village levels to create awareness at all levels about on-line services
offered by the government; and (ii) Common Enabling Environment component
enhanced existing laws and developed new laws to enable the private sector to grow
and to ensure competition and a level playing field. In addition expansion of local
language compatibility with widely used software packages were supported. CIO’s
were further trained on implementation of government ICT policy and effective
delivery of on line services to citizens and businesses. Cyber security and data
protection was another area which was supported under AF.

e-Laws:         ICTA drafted several ICT Laws 21, which the government enacted as
legislation through Parliament. These key policy reforms were undertaken by ICTA,
based on its reform mandate to facilitate e-Transformation and ICT Development 22. In
order to ensure efficiency and effectiveness of the ICT laws and policies finalized
under this component, ICTA has continued to ensure that the policies and regulations
formulated under the Electronic Transactions Act supported the development of the
private sector. Recognizing the need for banking sector to have a digital certificate
framework to have appropriate security safeguards to in-still greater customer
confidence, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) worked closely with ICTA and
mandated Lanka Clear Limited (LCPL) 23 to be the financial sector Certification
Services Provider (CSP).

Digital Certification: In November 2009, the Lanka Government Network –
Certificate Authority (LGN-CA) was established. The LGN-CA was designed to
facilitate the digital certificate requirements of the public sector government
organizations. LGN-CA issues digital certificates to organizations after following a
specified request validation and approval procedure. The NCA was the apex statutory
entity required to be established by an Order published in the Gazette and was to serve
as the standard setting body to regulate the Certification Service Providers in Sri
Lanka. After extensive deliberations between multiple stakeholders, an Order under
Section 18 was published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1829/29, dated September
24, 2013 assigning ICTA to host the National Certification Authority for the purpose
of the Electronics Transactions Act. ICTA and Telecommunications Regulatory
Commission of Sri Lanka, Defense Ministry, Sri Lanka CERT and Lanka Clear


21
   E-Laws passed by Parliament includes the Electronic Transactions Act No.19 of 2006, Computer Crimes Act No.
24 of 2007, Amendment (2008) to the ICT Act No. 27 of 2003, Financial Regulation Circular #447/2010 of the
Ministry of Finance on the use of Electronic Payments for Government Transactions, Policy for e-Signature usage
in Payment & Settlement System at Lanka Clear and the e-Government Policy for ICT Usage in Government
(2009). SMS and email transmissions are now admissible as evidence in a court of law
22
   A case in point is the posting online of the Supreme Court cases, free for download: http://www.supremecourt.lk,
which has enjoyed widespread support and has received about one million hits
23
   Lanka Clear, which has also been statutorily empowered under Section 98 of the Monetary Law to handle all
interbank payments owned by commercial banks and CBSL.

                                                       27
constitute the National Certification Authority Task Force jointly chaired by ICTA and
CBSL for formulating policies, standards and governance measures relating to the
National Certification Authority.

On December 12, 2013, the Legal Draftsman formally issued the Electronic
Transaction (e-Population Register) Regulation No. 1 of 2013 in all three languages to
be published in the Government Gazette. Drafting of a series of similar Regulations
under the Electronic Transactions Act to give legal effect to other e-Gov activities,
including e-Services such as e-Revenue License System is expected to continue
through 2014. ICTA has also finalized a Data Protection Code of Practice and this will
be shared amongst stakeholders and adopted as a best practice regime in 2014/15 time
frame. ICTA is in the process of identifying and addressing legal issues concerning
Cloud hosting arrangements to better enhance the Cloud based services ICTA can
offer in the future depending on the availability of funds.

SLCERT: Institutional arrangements, such as SLCERT were also put in place by
ICTA under the original e-Sri Lanka Project. The SLCERT was established on 1st July
2006 by the ICTA. The SLCERT handled incidents relating to phishing attacks in the
banking industry, web compromise incidents and consultancy and awareness programs
relating to cyber security. During the AF, efficiency of SLCERT was further enhanced.
In 2012 the total incidents reported to SLCERT increased to 1840 compared with 1469
incidents reported in 2011. This is a 25% increase in reported incidents compared with
year 2011.

Local Languages Initiative (LLI): LLI was also funded under this component. The
objective was to ensure that ICT can be used in Sinhala and Tamil based on national
and international standards, and to ensure that ICT in local languages was easy to use.
Projects such as: (i) Enabling Sinhala and Tamil in mobile operating systems; (ii) Text
to Speech System for Sri Lanka Tamil and Speech to Text system for Sri Lanka Tamil;
(iii) Unicode compliant publishing in Sinhala and Tamil (iv) Developing a Sri Lanka
Tamil language corpus; and (v) Developing Translation Tools to enable translations
between Sinhala and Tamil have been implemented. According to the country-wide
provisional data of the Local Language Evaluation Survey24 the “Unicode” addresses
the anomaly caused by numerous non-standard local language fonts. Over 84% of the
surveyed users were aware of the availability of local language computing; 72% were
able to use local language computing and users were able develop Unicode complaint
local language websites. However, printers and publishers were unable to use it due to
incompatibilities in printing and publishing related software, lack of knowledge about
local language computing among private sector, communication centers, schools and
ICT vendors. Department of Official Languages has been able to formulate soft copies
of 30 different glossaries using Unicode complaint local languages. User satisfaction
rate of use of local language computing was reported as 82% and Unicode compliant
government sector organizations have exceeded 90% satisfaction.




24
   Local Language Evaluation survey – Final Evaluation – Draft report November 27, 2013. Provisional data
obtained from the report.



                                                  28
Chief Innovation Officers (CIOs). Under this component one of the key activities
was the creation and enhancement of the implementation of the e-Government
initiatives using the staff of the respective organizations as change agents. Moving
forward, this model needs to be reviewed and strengthened. It has been observed that
the number of CIOs who are to act as change agents have been transferred without
proper replacements which tends to affect the use of the LGN at optimal level. Under
AF CIOs to be trained was estimated at 165 of which 89% have fully completed
training while the rest have not been able to complete all the training modules. The Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration (SLIDA) has introduced ICT courses
in their induction programs for new recruits for the administrative and accountancy
services so that all senior level staff in future will be adequately equipped to handle
the LGN system and by end of the year there will be 103 additional officers who are
potential CIOs. This has lead to a functional sustainability CIO concept in the
government.

Integrated Communication. There was a need to create more awareness about
government e-services, Tele-centers and overall services available to the general
public via the project as awareness and usage especially in the rural areas was low. It
had been observed that in the past the beneficiaries of the services were confined to
more affluent areas. The focus of the additional financing aimed at creating awareness
for major applications and other eServices developed under the Re-engineering
government component. The strategy adopted was multi-pronged and integrated where
all channels of mass media (TV, Print media and Radio) were used when a specific
eService developed under the project was launched. In addition, a weekly TV and a
radio programs were aired where awareness was created and discussions were
conducted about the e-Services provided and other ICT related information to the
general public. The total annual readership of newsletters are estimated to be around
2.6 million and annual listeners of radio programs total up to 5.0 million and the total
annual viewers of ICT related TV programs are around 10.0 million. As a result, the
ICT knowledge in rural areas has increased dramatically.

The educational programs in both Sinhala and Tamil (i.e Nenapiyasa, Subarathi,
Arivodayam) during prime time have been popular especially among the students and
the websites. In order to be present at the local level, notice boards, leaflets and bill
boards were provided in the Divisional Secretariats/District Secretariats giving details
of the services available and also having ICTA stalls in national events such as
“Deyata Kirula” ,“Educational, Archaeological and Technological Exhibition” etc.
which were frequented by people from all over the island. A felicitation event
“Nenasala Swarna Sammana” was held to recognize the services rendered by
Nenasala operators with participation of 700. A workshop was also held for e-
Government policy stakeholders in December 2013 bringing together institutional
heads, CIOs, representatives’ from the academia and private sector. The integrated
Communication team supported e-Services, e-Society, Local Language Initiative and
the e-Journal.

e-Leadership: The project also forged strategic partnerships with donors, government,
and other stakeholders, including Korean EXIM Bank, UNESCAP (UN), UNCITRAL
(UN), Commonwealth Secretariat (UK), PLAN International, Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN - US), APCICT and EDCF (South Korea),
IDRC (Canada), and the Council of Europe. Many of these bodies have officially
recognized ICTA as a member and stakeholder, frequently in a leadership role.

                                           29
Common Enabling Environment. This aimed at enhancing the existing legal
framework to support private sector growth, promote competition and create a level
playing field, support cyber security and promote use of local languages in ICT for
inclusive growth. ICTA had been supporting the drafting of regulations under the
Electronic Transactions Act and also drafting new legislation for data protection and
creating awareness of cyber security among the public. In December 2013, the Legal
Draftsman formally issued the Electronic Transactions (e-Population) Regulation to be
published in the Government Gazette which legalized the issue of e-Birth certificate
which has already being piloted in 5 districts under a dual system. This will lead to
setting up of a full-fledged e-Population Registry. In addition, the Sri Lanka Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT) – an ICTA subsidiary- has continued with its
information security focus across various sectors and provided limited fee based
services on cyber security. In September 2013, ICTA was assigned to host the
National Certification Authority to set standards to regulate Certification Services
Providers (Lanka Clear Private Ltd and Lanka Government Network Certificate
Authority). Data Protection Code of Practice is ready for discussion with the ICT
industry associations. The Local Language initiative (LIL) funded by the AF under
this component has enabled the use of local languages in ICT especially in Tamil
language.

In line with creating more awareness about ICTA’s development achievements and
activities to key policy makers and the general public, ICTA has carried out many
awareness activities among its stakeholders. Media activities and event specific
communication were carried out nation-wide but with a special focus on the North and
Eastern Provinces as AF mainly focused on these areas in order to create awareness
about services developed under the project. During the period from December 2012 to
end 2013, 24 events, 657 press releases in all there languages, 97 advertisements (e.g.
Lanka gate, eDiriya awareness, BMD awareness, eCitizen project etc) 13 publications
and 206 media programs were conducted to increase awareness about the services
provided by applications developed under the project. Activities carried out by ICTA
seem to have been effective as the ICT use in rural areas and among public officials
has increased as reflected by the increase in use of Government e-Services by 3.8
million during the AF period.

Component 2: ICT Human Resources Development and Industry Promotion
Program: Strengthening Sri Lankan business and SME competitiveness through ICT.

                  Indicators                   Original/Revised Targets          Actual
Trained CIO teams responsible for e-                      30              30 (165 organizations)
transformation established within 30% of the
remaining government agencies
5% annual improvement in rating of ICT                    5                        27
policy environment using NRI index
70% of users are aware and are able to use               70                        84
standard based local language computing


Outputs: The outputs were the following: (i) Creation of 75,107 new ICT jobs; (ii)
Training of 5,261 workers on IT in the non-ICT private sector, enhancing their
experience applicable to their work; (iii) 30,561 IT/BPO practitioners have been
beneficiaries of IT/ITES awareness and training since 2005; (iv) Capacity building via
a series of events focused on building international and local business linkages in the
ICT sector, strengthening of the ICT industry associations, SME support, and train-
the-trainer programs; (v) Particular emphasis was paid to smaller enterprises – 3078
small grants were awarded, in conjunction with national training events, certification
                                          30
courses, and career fairs. Work in the North and East was scaled up via career fairs,
ICT literacy events, industry mentoring programs, and other activities, in anticipation
of new initiatives there by the private sector.

Under AF, several activities were added: (i) Development of skills certification
program for IT/ITES; (ii) Provision of industry statistics and information on industry
needs; (iii) Train the Trainer (ToT) Program in selected certifications; and (iv)
Marketing and promotion of the ICT industry.

One of the indicators that had been consistently monitored through surveys during the
AF was the number of jobs that were created in ICT and IT enabled services. A target
of 10,000 additional jobs was expected to be created during the AF and 12,295 jobs
were created in the industry. This augured well for the success of additional financing
as the component on improving IT/ITES competitiveness could only be fully
implemented if there were enough personnel with skills that the industry required. In
addition under AF, 55 Trainers and around 1053 staff in private companies were
trained under ITES skilled training program to increase the skill base.

Improving IT/ITES Sector Competitiveness. This aimed at improving locations
readiness index for IT/ITES industry. In terms of training, ICTA liaises with the
IT/ITES Industry Association (SLASCOM) to determine the skills that were needed
and which were expected to make the industry competitive in the global market. In
this regard, ICTA provided Agile/Scrum Training; Business Analyst Training and
Project Management for private sector mangers and trained the trainers (ToT). Up to
now 1053 have been trained under ITES skills certification program while 50 have
been trained under training of trainers (ToT) program exceeding the targets. Apart
from these, under the Industry Business Promotion Program, 37 companies
participated. Based on the feedback provided by the participating companies, these
events have resulted in more than 1 million (Aus $) potential contacts some of which
are in an advance stage of negotiation.

Two examples of innovative initiatives were the Green IT initiative, which held an
event in March 2011, promoting Sri Lanka as a sustainable sourcing destination, and
the Spiral of Innovation Initiative targeting newly-created ICT start-ups, in partnership
with 23 international IT organizations including Microsoft, Intel, Oracle. Sri Lanka
was also awarded the “Outsourcing Destination of the Year” award by the National
Outsourcing Association (NOA), UK in 2013. Sri Lanka was ranked in the top 10
most improved countries for doing business in 2013. Sri Lanka was also ranked
among the top 25 global outsourcing destinations by AT Kearney and among the top
30 outsourcing destinations by Gartner.

Component 3: Rural Telecommunication Network (RTN) Program

This component was cancelled. It aimed at opening up internet cable connectivity to
all internet service providers, by providing a US$12.5 million subsidy for the
installation of an internet cable infrastructure open to all internet providers. The
complex political economy situation in the market presented major implementation
issues for awarding a contract for the provision of cable connectivity, though two
attempts were made. It appears that little action was taken to obtain the buy-in of other
key stakeholders such as the telecom operators in the RTN process. The telecom
regulator (TRCSL) was also not consulted at the design phase. However, the
government took steps to forge necessary alliances and provide enabling conditions
                                            31
for the cable construction by spreading and helping manage underlying risks. 25 In spite
of the delays to the BCI construction, the mere planning and dialogue process for the
BCI under the project opened the possibility of equal access to network frequency
making it feasible for CDMA (wireless) licenses to be allocated to telecom operators
as a direct competition to broadband access. This effectively broke the broadband
monopoly by opening it up to competition from another technology – and the results
were visible in deeper access nation-wide and in more remote rural areas (from 1.44%
population with internet access in 2006 to 11% in March 2012 26 .
(http://www.trc.gov.lk/).

(Components 4): Telecenter Development Program (Access in remote and rural
areas)

              Indicators                   Original/revised Targets                       Actual
240 telecenters established in under-             240/70/25                              740/85/85
served areas of which 70% will be
operational and 25% financially
sustainable
% of women and youth who are                         40/70                                 41/54
users of telecenters


This component was implemented satisfactorily and made a significant contribution to
mass e-literacy and ICT culture in the rural areas. Telecenters have become breeding
grounds for ICT-enabled rural entrepreneurship, and have been incorporated into other
government programs for rural and community-driven development. The sample
survey on Tele-centers funded under the AF reveals that out of the 629 Tele-centers
established in the original project, 65% are financially viable. 70% of the users and
76% of the operators indicated that Tele-centers contributed to improving ICT literacy
in the community especially among the youth. Partnerships were established with
multinational companies (such as Microsoft to promote ICT usage for migrant
workers), Sri Lankan companies (such as MAS Holdings, to train workers of garment
factories), NGOs (such as Job Search, Sanasa, Sarvodaya, Telecentre.Org), and aid
agencies (IDRC, UNDP).

Sri Lanka’s Telecentre (Nenasala) project was initiated to provide affordable ICT
services and associated facilities to the rural communities of the country. It is globally
accepted that Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) can play a pivotal
role in reducing poverty by creating new sources of income and employment,
improving health and education services, reducing inequalities and advancing
economic growth. However, most of the people in rural, underserved communities
remained isolated due to the lack of financial resources to purchase and maintain their


25
  The RTN was initially designed to address a perceived need at the project design stage – which was the lack of
affordable ICT access to rural Sri Lankans, where the operators at the time had not rolled out services to these
commercially less attractive markets. The market was also characterized by the oligopolistic behavior of a few
dominant players. Although the project could not implement the smart subsidy to operators willing to roll out
services in these areas as the incumbent operators took legal action against ICTA, the overarching objective of
rolling out such rural ICT services was achieved anyway as the operators of their own accord moved to these
markets fearing their competition would move before them. Therefore from development objective, one could
argue that the RTN program succeeded in meeting its public good goals by motivating operators to rural markets,
even though it was not implemented under the project (albeit not by design).

26
     Source: Telecommunications Regulatory Commission



                                                      32
own computers and internet and avail themselves to the ICT services. As at end of
2013 ICTA had established 740 Telecentres (including through additional financing)
throughout Sri Lanka including the Northern Province. A typical Nenasala Telecentre
was provided with few computers, printers, web cams, high speed internet connections,
telephones, fax machines and photocopiers and is managed by well trained staff and
also provides ICT literacy training.

Three surveys (see Annex 5) were carried out by ICTA to gather feedback on the
effectiveness of the program. The findings of the three surveys clearly indicate that
the Nenasala project had contributed to high literacy levels in these communities and
changes in the use of ICT tools to facilitate their daily activities. It was also evident
that the Nenasala users had gained sufficient knowledge, skills and confidence in ICTs,
leading them to invest in computers, laptops, internet connectivity, scanners and web
cams. This indicates that the community accepted the value and advantage of using
ICTs to enhance their livelihoods and started to change their traditional ways of doing
things with more convenient and cost-effectives technologies. They changed the ways
of communication with emails, Skype and accessing of information, reading
newspapers and improving knowledge keeping constant contact with friends, and
entertainment through internet. However, facilities like e-health, e-commerce, e-
banking and host of other services which were offered online and available at the
touch of a button are not yet popular among the rural community.

The awareness programs were also conducted to create awareness among the villages
where the Nenasalas were set up in the North and East. ICTA had designed the
Nenasala implementation process in the North and East using the knowledge and
experience gained during the past to make them more effective. In the initial phases
the Nenasalas were subsidized by the project but under the current program none are
subsidized for operational expenses. In addition, with previous experience the recently
selected operators were mostly community development societies or women
development societies who would be able to sustain the Tele-centers for training
purposes. A Tele-center Experience Handbook has been translated into local
languages and printed and disseminated to the local ICT practitioners and Tele-center
operators. 27

ICTA has also been able to deliver value added products for Nenasalas through
established service providers; (i) introducing IT curriculum with appropriate
certification (Intel); (ii) introducing Financial services (HNB Assurance-Collection of
insurance premium), (iii) introducing on-line purchasing (wow.lk) and (iv) TOT in
English in N & E Nanasalas which were all collaborations with leading private sector
organizations.

Capacity building and training at Nenasalas have produced results and standardization
has taken place. These training programs were accredited by Tertiary and Vocational
Education Commission (TVEC) and certificates were issued jointly by the TVEC and
ICTA. However, going forward the continued technical support to the Tele-centers is
important.



27
     Nenasala: The Sri Lankan Telecentre experience – Basheerhamad Shadrach- February 2012.



                                                       33
The program was internationally recognized including by the World Bank Institute
(WBI) innovation fair, FutureGov, and Global Knowledge Partnership. Many lessons
have been learned about sustainability and impact of its various institutional models—
these lessons are valuable not only for scaling and developmental impact within Sri
Lanka, but for the developing world as well.

Value addition to the project:
   • Hatton National Bank Assurance PLC (HNBA) has come forward to
       collaborate with ICTA to implement Premium Collection point at selected
       Nenasala centres throughout the country. The pilot phase of initiative has
       commenced at five Nenasala centres and HNBA team organized a workshop
       for owners of the Nenasala centres in Colombo. ‘Dialog Easy Cash’, the
       mobile payment system, introduced to these centres to enable premium
       collection at the centres. Once Pilot phase is successfully completed HNBA
       will scale up numbers centres for wider access by its customers.

    •   Anything.lk, brand changed to Wow.lk, the online store, has signed up with 20
        Nenasala centres to promote and sell their online products and services in other
        areas of Sri Lanka. Anything.lk team organized a workshop for 20 Nenasala
        centre owners and signed agreement to proceed with the programme. ‘Dialog
        Easy Cash’, the mobile payment system, introduced to these centres to enable
        payments for the purchases. With this a new culture of online purchasing will
        be introduced to remote parts of Sri Lanka through the Nenasala network.

    •   “Intel Easy Steps”, the digital literacy programme developed by Intel is now
        introduced to 50 Nenasala centres. ICTA and Intel entered into a MoU to
        implement the programme. 50 Nenasala centre trainers have been provided
        with necessary training and recognized as Master Trainers by Intel. At end of
        the training programme students who underwent training received certificate
        issued by Intel. Necessary tool kits developed by Intel have been provided to
        the Nenasala centres to implement the programme successfully. This
        programme will be scaled up gradually to other Nenasala centres.

In conclusion, it is evident that Telecenters has slowly but surely empowered the rural
societies in transforming their ways of doing things in an efficient, convenient and
cost effective manner. Recognition for this has also been forthcoming, most recently
from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation which presented its 2014 Access to
Learning Award of US$1 million to the e-Library Nenasala Program (eLNP), in
recognition of its work to provide free access to computers and the Internet to
underserved Sri Lankans living in remote and rural areas. There is lot more to gain
from this initiative in the future and the decision to expand the project to cover all the
GNDs in the country was the correct decision to make so that the benefits of ICT are
penetrated to the grass root level.

Component 5: Re-engineering Government Program

             Indicators               Original/Revised                   Actual
7.5 mil citizens and business            7,500,000                     11,088,886
conducting transactions with the
government on-line
# trained under the Skills              SCP = 1000                     SCP = 1053
Certification Program (SCP) and          ToT = 50                       ToT = 55
Training of Trainers (ToT)

                                            34
This component was implemented satisfactorily and the targets achieved. Some of the
e-services envisaged in the PAD (e-motoring, e-Employment and e-Procurement)
were dropped (see under Lessons Learned) and these were replaced with e-services
listed below. The outcomes under this component were critical for achieving
connectivity and improving ICT literacy throughout the whole government sector and
inclusiveness in terms of efficient provision of e-services to all citizens (G2G, G2C
and G2B). Lanka Government Network (LGN) works as the digital highway for
running mission critical projects such as e-Revenue Licenses, e-State Land
Information Management System, e-Population Register etc. LGN also provides
digital certificates to all government organizations through the LGN certification
authority for securing electronic communications and service provisions. LankaGate is
the messaging middleware infrastructure for facilitating all e-Government solutions
and equipped with common components such as GovSMS (SMS gateway), Lanka
Government Payment Service, Mobile Portal, etc. ICTA has also developed a number
of e-services and mobile applications of which some are highly popular: Revenue
licences, land title, rate payment, Railway Timetable Application. Most of these have
been piloted and will be rolled out in 2014.The outcomes have brought about major
improvements in GOSL’s efficiency in public service delivery, transparency,
effectiveness, and quality of services.

                                           Colombo Municipal System
The on-line rate payment system that was introduced in the Colombo Municipal System has enabled the Colombo
city residence to pay Rates, Trade Tax, Tax on Business, Market Rental, House Rental, Shop and Boutique rental
and Hawkers rental. This is a 24 hour e-service and has facilitated all tax payers to make their due payments via
internet or mobile easy cash and save time without having to stand in lines for a long period of time as was the case
prior to the introduction of this system.

                               Western Province Motor Commissioner’s Department
Under the project, the Motor Vehicle Revenue License process in the Western province was automated. In the
Western approximately 5000 revenue licenses have to be renewed on daily basis. Before automation, the
Department encountered long queues of waiting customers, volumes of manual files, delay in service delivery,
unhappy customers and staff members. Further, issue of revenue licenses were confined only to vehicles belongs to
that particular DS division. With automation, the issue of a revenue license has been reduced to 90 seconds on
average. Manual filing system has been abandoned. A vehicle owner in the western province can obtain the revenue
license from any DS office as all 38 DS offices in the province are connected by LGN. All data relating to a
particular vehicle is available in the system.
                                          Department of Land Commissioner
Majority of the land area in the island is owned by the state. Land commissioner is responsible for all activities
relating to state land. Land commissioner has delegated land identification and preparation of land alienation
proposals to respective Land Field Officers of the Provincial Land commissioner attached to DS offices.
Previously a citizen had to submit an application for obtaining land from the state to the DS office. Thereafter Field
Officer had to visit the location and submit his recommendation to the Divisional secretary who in turn submitted
same to the Provincial Land Commissioner and thereafter to National Land commissioner for approval. This
manual process took more than 6 months to complete. With the automation, time taken for approval has been
reduced to 2 weeks. The applicant can track progress of his application, as he receives an alert message on his
mobile phone at each of the approval stages. In addition, Land Title deed extracts can now be obtained in 30
minutes as compared to 2 days prior to this intervention.


Outputs: The outputs are summarized here and detailed below in some cases:

(i) The Re-Engineering Government (Re-Gov) program consisted of government to
government (G2G), government to consumers (G2C), and government to business
(G2B) services as well as a horizontal infrastructure (platform) program. The core
projects under the Re-Engineering Government programs that were established were:
Lanka Government Network (LGN), Lanka Gate, e-Pension, e-Population Register,
Degitalization of Birth, Marriages and Death certificate, Laksala, e-HRM pilot,
National Index Card digitization, and e-Revenue License;

                                                         35
(ii) The Lanka Government Network (LGN) connected 550 central and provincial
government organizations to provide effective citizen services through secure
electronic communications. During the additional financing phase, the LGN was
extended to 74 sites (against a target of 50) in 5 Districts in Northern Province and 2
Districts in Eastern Province areas that could not be covered previously due to the
earlier conflict situation and completed the training of 850 staff (against a target of
850) and CIOs of both these two Districts. With the expansion of the LGN network
into the conflict affected areas, the connectivity cycle was completed;
(iii) In addition to providing ICT infrastructure, Government staff has been trained to
ensure that they are equipped with the necessary skills to use the infrastructure
effectively. Government has digitized 18 million records on birth, death and marriage
making them easily accessible. Further, 495 government entities have achieved live
web presence, hosted at the official Government Portal (www.gov.lk);
(iv) In total, 130 informational and interactive services are being offered, to date.
There have been 11,088,886 citizens conducted online transaction with the
government by end of November 2013 (these are number of hits and single person
may use various e services) users per month on average accessing government
information online;
(v) e-Population Registry project: The solution has been rolled out in five districts
(Colombo, Kaluthara, Puttalam, Nuwaraeliya and Kurunegala). e-Population register
regulation have been issued for gazzeting to permit the commencement of generating
e-certificates;
(vi) e-Pensions: the data bases have been created in most DS offices but the work has
been slow due to changes of management in the Department of Pensions and vendor
conflict;
(vii) e-DS: The software development was completed and rolled out to 3 Divisional
Secretariats on a pilot basis, completing the project objectives. When the project was
conceptualized broadband connectivity was not available to implement a centralized
solution. Given advancement in broadband availability nationwide it was considered
to adopt a centralized solution to the roll out that would decrease the technical burden
on each individual Divisional Secretariats and therefore was considered a much
superior option. The wider roll out, scaling up the project pilot took place in 2012.
(viii) The Lanka Gate infrastructure comprising country portal (www.srilanka.lk ),
internet and mobile payment gateway (Lanka Gov Payment Service), SMS gateway—
collectively providing an enabling infrastructure for rapid deployment and integration
of electronic Services. Other key enablers include a dedicated Government cloud
(first of its kind in South Asia), an interoperability framework (standards to secure
data sharing), and local language initiative to enable trilingual websites and databases
Under the AF several Government portals were consolidated into a single country
portal ‘www.srilanka.lk’ which was re-launched in January 2014; and
(ix) e-Services: 25 eServices (against a target of 20) were designed by ICTA of
which 12 were launched in January 2014. Some of the eServices are for Colombo
Municipal Council (for Property tax payments, Trade tax payments, Business tax
payments), and for Employment Trust Fund. The other services are expected to be
launched later in 2014;
(x) The e-Revenue License (the first transactional e-service) created the path to
accepting electronic payments for government services, was implemented in the
Western Province (2010) is now being replicated in the other provinces. The Visa
online through ETA (Electronic Travel Authority) also uses the Lanka Gate Payment
system.


                                          36
Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3 and Training: Commissioning of Phase
3 completed the installation of the LGN in the whole country including the conflict
affected areas. LGN is a secure Intranet which connects government organizations for
electronic communication. The Korean Ex-Im Bank provided parallel financing for
Phase 1 and 2 which connected all provinces except for North and part of the Eastern
Province. Under the AF, LGN has been extended to 74 sites in 5 districts in Northern
Province (Jaffna, Vavuniya, Mannar, Mulathiu and Kilinochchi) and 2 districts in the
Eastern Province (Batticaloa and Trincomalee), areas that could not be covered under
the previous phases due to the conflict. The installation of hardware and software has
been completed. With the connecting of the North and Eastern Provinces under Phase
3, the virtual private network (VPN) connecting the remaining government
organizations (7 District Secretariats, 60 Divisional Secretariats and 8 Provincial
Ministries) completes linking a total of 550 government organizations in all 25
districts. Deployment of this infrastructure will provide the necessary tools for public
sector staff to be more productive and efficient in delivering convenient and effective
public services especially to the rural and the conflict affected citizens. As the
commissioning of the system in Phase 3 took place during December 2013, the impact
in those areas cannot be assessed. However, the public sector staff in the respective
locations showed enthusiasm in using the systems for efficient service delivery.

In addition to providing the ICT infrastructure under LGN, general ICT skills training
for 600 government officers, technical skills training for 150 System Administrators
and advanced internationally recognized ICT training for 100 officials in the North
and Eastern Provinces have been completed to ensure that public sector staff are
equipped to use the ICT infrastructure in the North and East. These programs have
empowered the public sector staff with necessary technical skills needed in
maintaining and managing multi-user computer systems and networks provided
through LGN Phase 3. General training in ICT certification includes skills in office
packages with SLCDL 28 examination at the end of the course. Training was delivered
through 7 training centers in each of the 7 districts. The Re-Gov training team also
implemented the training plan for technical training for another 100 government
officers in the North and East in Joomla/PHP/My SQL and A+ in addition to a
certification process for government leaders in ICT for development. Furthermore, a
post graduate diploma in eGovernment offered by Post Graduate Institute of
Management (PIM) was also supported by eSri Lanka. In total, the ICTA has been
able to complete the training of 850 staff in the North and Eastern Provinces as
targeted under AF.

In addition, ICTA is providing FOSS based systems (Free and Open Source System)
under LGN Phase 3, a virus free system which would help in reducing payment of
license fees in the future. In the LGN Phase 3, all the work stations have been
provided with FOSS based systems. In addition, the Birth, Marriage and Death (BMD)
system is used extensively in the districts where the service delivery time has been
brought down to 5 minutes due to easy retrieval of documents. The average visitors
per day for this service were reported to range from 50-100 and the visits have been
minimized to one visit. In some of the districts already the birth certificates can be



28
     SLCDL – Sri Lanka computer Driving License



                                                  37
accessed from any DS office in the district and eventually this system will enable
citizens to obtain their birth certificate from any DS office in the country.

e-Services. As part of the Lanka Gate initiative ICTA has developed many electronic
services (eServices) which are offered to clients through the internet, SMS and mobile
applications. It is expected that these multiple online service options would provide a
more effective, efficient and citizen friendly mechanism for delivering public services.
In total there are approximately 48 eServices offered by 22 government organizations.
Out of those, to-date ICTA has launched approx. 33 eServices offered by 18
government organizations. During AF 25 eServices were developed of which 12
completed eServices offered by 6 Organizations are awaiting a confirmation for the
launch by the respective government organizations. It is expected that these services
will be launched in December 2013 or January 2014. These new eServices will further
increase efficiency in service delivery to citizens (G2C). A survey was carried out to
evaluate the impact of this program. The survey indicated that awareness of e-services
was low and so was the usage. However, there was high satisfaction with regard to the
efficiency and effectiveness of the government services provided. Further there was a
reduction in time spent for obtaining public services by 29% and increase in the level
of satisfaction by 17% compared with the results of the survey carried out in 2010.
The findings are summaries in Annex 5.

Some of the main applications developed under the original project like e-Revenue
License (e-RL), e-Pensions, e-Civil Registry were to be further enhanced and rolled
out during AF. The e-Revenue License rollout is complete in Western Province and
pilots have commenced in the Southern and Central Provinces. Western Province
accounts for more than 50% of motor vehicle registration in the country. The Central
and Southern Province rollouts have been initiated and the training is on-going. In
case of the eCivil Registry, the roll out has been done in 5 districts (Colombo,
Kalutara, Puttalam, Nuwara Eliya, and Kurunegala) and is issuing eCertificates.
Already the exiting Birth, Marriage and Death (BMB) Certificates are available in
scanned form which can be retrieved and issued to the public without delay in all the
districts visited expect recently set up offices in the Eastern Province (e.g. Seru
Nuwara and Nedunkerny DS divisions). This is currently been implemented within
districts. E-Population Register Regulations have been issued for gazetting to permit
the commencement of the generation of e-Certificate. The Mission during the field
visit observed that the scanned versions are available only up to 2011 in most places
visited and in some places only up to 2009. Under the e-Pensions program the data
bases have been created in most DS offices, but the work has been slow due to
changes of management in the Department of Pensions and vendor conflict. ICTA
contracted consultants to carry out a survey on impact of e-Government services in
November 2013 under AF funding. According to the provisional data available,
majority (84%) surveyed have indicated they are able to obtain services “successfully’.
However, only 45% of the surveyed were aware of the Government Country Portal of
that only 13.5% had used some form of e-Services. 29




29
   The most advanced country data provided in the UN eGovernment Survey 2012. (e.g. Average use of country
portals in 27 EU countries – 32%). E Government Survey- Draft Final Evaluation – November/December 2013.



                                                   38
Lanka Gate Enhancement. Lanka Gate of Re-Gov program was further enhanced to
cater for the changing demands and emerging technological advancements taking
place. This includes improving Lanka Gate security framework, information and
service classification, leveraging on the mobile initiatives to enable citizens make use
of mobile as a payment mechanism and as a service delivery channel when obtaining
government services. 'Lanka Gate' is a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based
messaging infrastructure, which is envisioned to be the gateway for electronic
information and electronic delivery in Sri Lanka. It was envisioned by the e-Sri Lanka
initiative, and also stated in the e-Government Policy Document, that practically all
the electronic services (e-Services) and electronic information in Sri Lanka will be
delivered via Lanka Gate which was launched in December 2009.

Country Portal: Country Portal www.srilanka.lk serves as a primary interface that
connects users to the e-Services provided within the Lanka Gate. Therefore, the
Country Portal is a fundamental access point for citizens, non-citizens, businesses,
agents and government employees to various government organizations and
businesses in Sri Lanka and abroad. Since its launch in 2009, there was more than
27,000 user registrations. With the feedback received from various stakeholders ICTA
had to revamp the Country portal to take a different form and be aligned with modern
web applications. Funded under the AF, the revamped country portal consolidated the
existing Country Portal (www.srilanka.lk) by integrating the information and services
provided by other service portals such as www.gov.lk and www.gic.gov.lk into a
single Portal, which will function as the main window for offering government
information and services. ICTA is in final stages of accepting this new version and
intends to formally launch it during early, 2014.

Lanka Government Payment Service (LGPS): LGPS is a core component of Lanka
Gate which offers multiple online payment mechanisms via credit/debit cards and
mobile payments, enables government organizations to offer paying services to
citizens. This was possible due to the amendments to the Financial Regulations (FR
447/2010) carried by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which was facilitated by
ICTA, as one of the key regulatory reforms of the Lanka Gate initiative, to enable
government organizations to offer paying services to citizens. This allows multiple
online payment mechanisms i.e (i) Credit/debit cards and (ii) mobile payments. ICTA
offers LGPS to all government organizations intending to develop paying services
offered to their clients. Mobile Portal: In addition to facilitating mobile payments,
ICTA has offered Government SMS, Government USSD30 and Mobile Apps as part of
the mobile based service portfolio.

Lanka Government Community Cloud (LGC) which envisioned the infrastructure as
a service platform for Government going forward will host the Lanka Gate
middleware infrastructure, eServices and the above mentioned new systems. ICTA has
upgraded selected core applications (i.e. Entry Service Bus and Governance Registry)
of Lanka Gate middleware to its latest stable versions and developed frameworks for
information and service classification. The “Cloud” allows resource pooling, elasticity
and scalability, a pay-as-you-use model and minimizes ICT in-house skills
requirements. Servers will be hosted by the ‘Cloud’ and reduces the cost of electricity,


30
     USSD-Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (GSM Technology)



                                                    39
UPS, AC and allows automatic scalability, ensures high reliability with no-down time.
The LGC currently hosts Lanka Gate, e-Revenue License, Sahana Disaster
Management System, e-Local Government, e-Samurdhi and Location Code and
Village list. It should be noted that this knowledge may not be available to the
Government agencies and they may incur unnecessary costs in terms of purchasing
servers etc. The ICTA team needs to share this information and carry out extensive
awareness programs with the key government agencies and even with the Department
of External Resources, who negotiate Government funding projects to avoid the cost
of introducing stand-alone automated systems.

Component 6: e-Society Program

            Indicators                   Original/Revised Targets        Actual
% in number of replications using   20                              24
applications developed under e-
Society Grants


This component was implemented satisfactorily and the targets achieved. Outcomes
of the component was to promote the innovative use of ICT to meet the economic and
social needs of the most vulnerable groups in Sri Lanka and to empower civil society
with affordable access to information, communication, and relevant local content. It
addressed a variety of thematic priorities including education, health, agriculture, and
small business development as well as cultural heritage. This was achieved by
increasing awareness among rural and urban poor of how ICT could benefit their lives
and to improve capacity of communities to implement projects and utilize ICT to meet
local needs. It included such diverse ICT applications as electronic patient record
systems in rural hospitals, digital content for rural libraries, and English self-learning
software for rural school leavers. In addition it increased economic opportunity and
equity through wider use of ICT in agriculture, tourism, health, and education,
including the empowerment of women and youth. E-Society programs have been able
to develop value added products through the Tele-centers creating them as delivery
points for services of some corporate businesses such John Keells (Tallying quotations
with actual prices), Intel (IT education programs), Dialog, HNB Assurance (Collection
insurance premium) etc. The e-Society component attracted international recognition
and awards for promoting grassroots community-implemented innovation.

Outputs: e-Society program was to support private and rural community based
organizations to create ICT applications to improve their livelihood, some of which
have the potential for replication. Complementing the Telecenter program, this
component combined a transparent grant program with a local language/localized
content development and deployment program. The program adopted a multi-channel
assistance: community assistance to community-based organizations (CBOs),
partnership assistance to organizations with higher capacity to execute innovative and
replicable projects, and replication assistance to apply successful innovations and
contents to new geographies and communities. E-Society Projects were recognized at
the Manthan Award (South Asia) and the m-Billionth South Asia Mobile Awards.
Five of the 8 projects to be nominated to the World Summit Awards 2011 were
initiated through the e-Society component.

E-Society promoted the use of ICT to meet the economic and social needs of the most
vulnerable groups in Sri Lanka through community grants (CAP) and partnership
grants (PAP), awarded on a competitive basis, and scaled up if successful. Twenty of
the more promising CAP projects with potential for significant impact on society were
                                        40
supported further in ensuring continuity and sustainability through the CAP Project
Sustainability Grants. These grants have led to the development of diverse and rich
innovative software content in a number of high-impact areas. The following
initiatives were launched:

   •   178 innovative ICT inventions were selected for funding (of which 23 were in
       the North and East), and 41 have been judged successful enough for further
       replication and scale up, of which 34 have been taken up by other donors;
   •   Innovative software was developed, which included animated CDs for estate
       women and children, covering topics such as vaccination, first aid, home
       gardening, home safety, waste disposal, nutrition for pregnant women; the
       Sinhala Wikipedia, a system for documenting violence against women in
       Jaffna District (North province); and a program linking a district hospital to a
       base hospital facilitating access to specialist services;
   •   Two successful education projects were implemented in Shilpa Sayura and
       Vidunena, which provide secondary school curriculum content electronically.
       Vidunena was ratified by the Ministry of Education and is now being deployed
       through the secondary school network in the country;
   •   A high-impact health projects was launched (Happy Life), providing
       reproductive health information to communities via multiple channels (online,
       voice, mobile), and enjoying over 7,000 hits per month. The project was
       considered for replication in Afghanistan by the International Plan Parenthood
       Federation;
   •   Several products were developed to support modern farming and livestock
       management – Goviya, NavaGoviya, and e-Dairy provided market price
       information to farmers, support to agricultural extension services, and provide
       just in time advice to farmers for increasing agricultural outputs;
   •   The Impaired Aid Project, which received the World Summit Award 2009,
       offered a comprehensive suite of applications to support learning and
       communications for those with visual and hearing impairments. This suite of
       applications is now being deployed across Special Schools in the country and
       is implemented by the private sector;
   •   The Village BPO project, On-Time, is servicing a blue chip company in
       Colombo while providing employment opportunities to the village youth. The
       success of this project led to its replication in the tsunami affected village of
       Seenigama in the South;Uduwil in Jaffna and Batticalo;
   •   A project aimed at improving the command of English amongst the rural
       population, especially young school-leavers, was initiated through the e-
       Society component for developing a self-learning English Language;
   •   Software Hospital Health Information Management System (HHIMS) is open-
       source medical database software designed for use in Sri Lanka hospitals. It
       stores clinical details of patients treated and is designed for use by clinical staff
       - details are recorded on the system as they examine the patient. The software
       will thus significantly reduce the need for maintaining paper based records and
       enable an improved and efficient service to the patient. So far the system was
       successfully implemented in 12 hospitals;
   •   Since 2009 digital innovation and creativity was recognized through e-
       Swabhimani, a National Best Content Award. The latest e-Swabhimani event
       conducted in 2013 for the fourth consecutive years. There were 670 highly
       quality submissions from innovative software developers in different areas and
       85 winners were recognized at a high profile event;The project provided local
                                            41
       language applications to enable all ethnic groups to have equal access to e-
       Services. Under the AF the focus had been more on Tamil language enabled
       services (e.g English learning for Tamil language users, Tamil language
       digitization project and web based A-Level science learning system for Tamil
       students). In addition some pilots were developed which could be replicated in
       other sectors such as Irrigation Water Management in Maduruoya and Hospital
       Health Information Management in one of the Northern Province hospitals;
   •   e-Society program initiated the implementation of several new private sector
       activities such as setting up of a rural BPO in the Eastern Province for training
       conflict affected children and work is to be outsourced from UPS office in
       Colombo (e.g. Keells). Hatton National Bank Assurance PLC has implemented
       insurance premium collection at Nenasala centers and HNB intends to scale up
       this activity. Wow.lk; the Online Store has signed up with 20 Nenasalas
       promote and sell their products. “Intel Easy Steps”, the digital literacy program
       developed by Intel has now been introduced to 50 Nenasala centers and
       expected to be scaled up to other Nenasala centers.

According to the recent e-Society Evaluation Report funded by AF, majority of the
beneficiaries (93%) are aware of the services provided by AF projects and around 87%
are satisfied with the benefits of the projects. Seventy seven percent of the
beneficiaries of the AF funded e-Society projects reported they were able to acquire
ICT literacy skills; 55% have improved their English literacy skills; 36% of the
beneficiaries indicated that they could save time, and 68% indicated that there was
women and youth empowerment. However, the impact on the sectors was much less
(13% in Health information; 13% in Agriculture extension information, 20% gained
knowledge on production methods, 10% gained support for peace and environmental
management).




                                          42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The impact of ICT on competitiveness and its potential for accelerating growth in
developing countries has being widely recognized. While quantitative estimates vary,
there is also substantial evidence that the divergence in economic growth across the
OECD is attributed in part to differences in the application of information technology
in productive sectors. The evidence shows that it is both the growth of the ICT sector
itself and process improvements associated with deploying ICT solutions that create
productivity gains. By lowering transactions costs and enabling greater information
sharing, ICT promotes innovation. The impact of ICTs as development tools depends
on a complex set of other enabling factors that require priority attention, such as the
proper policy and regulatory environments, openness to global markets, and a
commitment to education and capacity building. The project has done much to
contribute to achieving these factors.

The project has:
   • Enabled effective e-business and e-government legal frameworks that will
       substantially increase levels of trust and confidence necessary to implement
       online transaction between various economic actors in the public and private
       sectors;
   • It has facilitated development of necessary institutions, standards, and
       technology architecture that will catalyze and streamline transition to the
       knowledge-based economy and assure interoperability between various
       information systems;
   • Built a broad awareness of the critical role of ICTs in government, business,
       and society, which will empower the citizens of Sri Lanka to fully leverage the
       new digital opportunities to improve overall personal effectiveness and
       competitiveness in the labor market, their professional capacity, and income
       status;
   • Improved the country brand and image of Sri Lanka’s ICT capabilities, thus
       helping to attract significant foreign investment and contribute to an increase in
       employment (over 75,000 jobs) and exports (around US$720 million) and
       overall economic growth via software and ICT-enabled business process
       outsourcing (top 30 outsourcing destinations in the World);
   • Significant benefits have been achieved by enhancing the efficiency and
       quality of government services delivered to citizens and businesses, improving
       the internal efficiency of government, and improving the transparency and
       accountability of governmental institutions (LGN, Lanka Gate, e-Pension, e-
       Population Register, e-Revenue Licenses, etc to name a few);
   • Establishment of telecenters was an economical means of expanding access to
       telecommunications services through shared facilities. They were of special
       significance to low-income consumers and small enterprises that cannot afford
       full time personal connections. The telecenters have enabled the provision of
       government and private sector services at citizens and SMEs; and
   • Increased economic opportunity and equity through wide use of ICT in
       agriculture, tourism, health, and education; empowering women and youth;
       supporting peace and environmental management; and mobilizing indigenous
       knowledge.
   • The efficiency in the project was based on increased access to information by
       citizens; increased public sector cost efficiency and transparency; improvement
       in the quality of governmental services; reduction in transaction costs and time
                                           43
          spent (for government, businesses, and citizens); increased contribution to
          GDP by the private sector in general and the IT industry in particular. For
          instance, land title deed extracts now take just 30 minutes, instead of 2 days;
          and land identification and alienation now takes two weeks, instead of six
          months (see also Annex 2).
     •    The establishment of the government-wide intranet has enabled government
          agencies to access and share each other’s information and data seamlessly,
          substantially reducing government processing and transaction times and costs.
     •    e-Procurement has provide access to tender issuance, monitoring, evaluation,
          and all procurement-related transactions, and have significant economic
          benefits, including transparency, lower prices resulting from increased
          competition, increased participation by SMEs, diffusion of e-business
          practices, and lower transaction costs and increased speed of processing
          tenders.
     •    The e-pension processing and delivery system has benefited a large number of
          pensioners and their dependents.
     •    Lastly, while the project took longer than originally anticipated, this was in
          part on account of the initial design under-estimating the implementation
          period required. Overall the staffing and costs levels stand up well to
          comparisons. At project end, ICTA had around 80 staff (country population 21
          million). This compares favorably to the under implementation similar Bank
          ICT projects in both Rwanda (900-1,000 staff; for a country with a population
          of 11 million) and Moldova (29 staff; country population of 3.5 million). 31




31
   While comparisons with other agencies, such as in Singapore are not directly feasible, it is worth noting that with
respect to staffing ICTA has only a fraction of the staff of the Singaporean agency.



                                                         44
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
          Names                Unit
Nagy Hana                    ISGVP
Eduardo Talero             Consultant
Ritin Singh                  CITPO
Sandra Sargent                ISGIF
Francisco Proenza              FOA
Deepal Fernando             SARPS
Julitta Resiah              SARFM
Steven Holtzman             SASES
Sumith Pilapitya            SASES
Vikram Raghavan             LEGMS
Oleg Petrov                   ISGIF
Gyanchander Gongireddy         ISG
Shashank Ojha                  ISG
Simon Bell                    MNSFP
John Daly                  AFTH1-HIS
Deepal Fernando                ECS02
Elena Gagieva-Petrova        MNSHD
Roger W Harris                SASFP
Albert Badathurugae           SACSL
Annemarie Mtonyi Mecca      HRDGM
Larry Meek                    BPSBP
Shashank Ojha                 TWICT
Ismail Radwan                 ECCU5
Vikram Raghavan               LEGOP
Sandra Sargent                 ISGIF
Ritin Singh                   CITPO
Eduardo Talero              Consultant
Charles Watt                   FIEID
Miriam Witana                 EASR1
Asya Akhlaque                 AFTFE
Cynthia Angeles
Khalid Bin Anjum             SARPS
Kareem Aziz                  CTTAE
Henry Bagazonzya             SASFP
Anna Bos
Kashmira Daruwalla           ECS02
Darshani De Silva            SASDI
William John Edwards         TWICT
Marjorie Penesa Espiritu     MNSF1
Shakuntala Gunaratne         AFTDE
Caroline Gunasekera          SASFP
                                         45
Bharatha Manju
                               SASFP
Haththotuwa
Ina Hoxha                      SASFP
Sriyani Hulugalle              SASFP
Syed Abul Kamal Md
                              AFCTZ
Abdul
Michael Jenson                TWICT
L Lohitha Karunasekera        SASFP
Emebet Kassa                  SASPM
Friedrich Konigshofer         SASFP
Nishana Dinali Kuruppu        SASFP
Anat Lewin                    TWICT
Tatiana Nenova                BPSVP
Cecile T Niang                SASFP
Tenzin D Norbhu               TWICT
Seda Pahlavooni               TWICT
Oleg V Petrov                 TWICT
Sumith Pilapitiya             SASDI
Julian Pogor                  DECDG
Francisco Proenza             LCSAR
Boyito A Quiroz               MIGOP
Radha Raju                    CTRLN
Aza Rashid                    SASFP
Mohamed G Razaak              SASDS
Indika Samarakoon             SASDU
Minako Sato                   SASFP
David Satola                  ICOIO
Joseph D M Siagian            SECPO
Randeep Sudan                 TWICT
Anushka Sheran
                              SASPM
Wijesinha
Miriam Witana                 EASRI
Masatake Yamamichi            TWICT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending                                   22.78                      92
Supervision                                218.05                    67.28

                          Total:            240.83                 159.29
Includes budget for the additional financing



                                         46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The findings of the Telecenter surveys are summarized below:

   •   The majority of 76% of Nenasala operators were young (below 40 years of
       age) and 61% had high level of IT knowledge and 77% had also undergone
       initial training by ICTA;
   •   Almost 85% of the operators confirmed that there were no affordable ICT
       services available in the area before the establishment of Nenasalas;
   •   Of the total centres surveyed only 50.6% had telephones and 37.2% had fax
       machines. Also photocopying facility was found in only 52.4% of the surveyed
       Nenasalas;
   •   Almost 87% of the Nenasalas were found to be involved in conducting
       computer training classes for students and others. The most popular training
       module was the office package;
   •   Nenasala centres had contributed immensely to improve the ICT literacy
       among the community especially among the youth. This was confirmed by
       70% of the surveyed users and 76% of the operators.
   •   It was found that 98% of the Nenasala users were computer literate and 54%
       had home computers as well. This showed that higher literacy leads to higher
       usage of Nenasala as they want to learn more in order to get the most out of
       their home facilities;
   •   The availability of internet was found to be around 20% among the user
       respondents. The availability of convenient and economical 3G mobile broad
       brand connections should increase the connectivity in the near future;
   •   It was also noted that almost 82% of the users surveyed were regular Nenasala
       users who at least visit the centre once a week;
   •   Around 98% of the users had expressed their satisfaction with the services
       provided by Nenasala, although it is not all of the centres that offer all
       communication and office facilities to users;
   •   Nenasala centres had also brought about positive behavioral changes in the
       community. For example 76% of the users had acknowledged that they use
       email and ‘Skype’ facilities to communicate with their families and friends
       abroad or to do business effectively and speedily;
   •   Internet facilities at the centres had contributed to improve the knowledge and
       skills of the users. 30% of the users had also mentioned that they use internet
       for entertainment purposes as well. The use of social networks to ‘keep in
       touch’ with their friends and share information of common interest was
       reported by 27% of the users;
   •   The survey found that 15% of the users accessed online e-overnment services
       through Nenasala internet facilities. Although this figure may be small, it
       shows that people are changing their attitudes and are trying to obtain these
       services in a convenient manner;
   •   It was also observed that 34% of the users had reported to be using internet to
       access latest news, information and read e-magazines from Nenasala;
   •   The use of Nenasala internet facilities for accessing e-Commerce and e-
       banking and other private sector facilities were only 5% and 2% respectively.
       Also only 4% had reported that they had used internet to adopt new
       technologies to improve their businesses;


                                         47
   •   Around 46% of the users had reported that they prepare their letters and other
       documents (typesetting) using Nenasala computers. Further, 23% had
       mentioned that they prepare university assignments using these facilities;
   •   The survey also found that 36% of the users had purchased computers/laptops
       and 14% had also obtained internet connections after associating with
       Nenasala services.;
   •   A percentage of 14 users had indicated that they were able to increase their
       income by using different Nenasala services while 3% had obtained
       employment as a result of training they received at the centre;
   •   Also 84% of the users had assessed and valued the Nenasalas’ contribution
       towards improving their ICT literacy as ‘very high’ or ‘high’;
   •   The community awareness (in the catchment area-5 kilometer radius) of the
       existence of Nenasala in their village was 76% but only 58% of those who
       were aware had actually used Nenasala facilities. The awareness is less as it
       goes further and further from the centre;
   •   As expressed by 77% of the operators, their centres generate sufficient revenue
       to cover the operating cost. Some centres are funded by owning institutions or
       provided rent free office space, free electricity and sometimes staff salaries are
       paid by them. In fact most of these centres are providing services at highly
       subsidized prices or even free of charge to the users. Services are also offered
       free to needy or members of the institution as a social service;
   •   Around 83% of the Nenasalas surveyed had conducted various awareness
       campaigns to popularize their services among the community. Most of them
       had targeted students who have completed their public exams and are awaiting
       results for training classes;
   •   It was also found that there were some catalytic effects arising from the
       Nenasala project. One important effect is the conviction in the community,
       especially among the parents is that learning ICT is essential to their children’s
       future and making every effort to provide them with training and equipment. It
       was also revealed that after the establishment of Nenasala more and more
       students are enrolling to take ICT as a subject for their public exams;
   •   Another visible catalytic effect is the establishment of other Telecentres in the
       neighbourhood is to provide similar services to the public;
   •   Lack of internet connections, fax machines, telephones and photocopiers were
       real impediments for smooth functioning of some Nenasalas as these
       equipments are essential to provide an efficient basic communication and
       office services;
   •   Some Nenasalas were faced with the difficulty of retaining their trained staff
       without a proper career path and salary structure. Some centres were found
       temporarily closed down due to this problem.

Based on the surveys carried out the following recommendations were made to
improve the performance of the program for future endeavours:

   •   It is extremely beneficial if all the required basic communication and office
       services are made available at all Nenasalas so that they can be used as one-
       stop communication centres to the community. Provision of other related
       services such as duplicating and binding facilities should also be encouraged;
   •   Apart from providing basic computer training, Nenasalas should also
       concentrate on providing other training where ever possible so that the required

                                          48
       manpower could be provided to the expanding BPO sector. This may help to
       develop local businesses in the various fields.;
   •   Nenasalas need to attract more and more customers to ensure their sustenance
       and expansion in the long run. This needs the creating of awareness not only in
       the local environment but also island wide. In this regard ICTA can carry out
       an effective media campaign along with local Nenasalas promoting their own
       centres within the catchment area;
   •   Some centres had been already shifted from original locations to more central
       places to attract more customers. If such relocations are conducive for their
       long term sustenance, such moves should be encouraged;
   •   It was also found that most Nenasala are expecting state intervention to
       provide continuous support to buy required equipment and other facilities. This
       misconception needs to be corrected so that they develop their own strategies
       to achieve self-sustainability;
   •   Another thorny issue is the difficulty of retaining trained staff due to financial
       reasons. They also do not see a long term career at these centres and always try
       to find better prospects elsewhere. Once the well trained staff leaves the
       untrained new comers find it difficult to offer the same quality of service to the
       users. This can seriously affect the user numbers and sustainability. A solution
       needs to be found to retain these trained staff.

ICTA also carried out an e-Government survey. Some key findings of were:

   •   Majority of visitors were able to obtain a “successful” service (84%) whilst
       11% and 5% of the visitors were “partly successful” or “not successful”,
       respectively.
   •   99% visitors were positively satisfied with the overall government services
       obtained, whilst 1% visitors were negatively satisfied with the government
       services obtained.
   •   the average number of visits made by the visitors to obtain a public services
       was 1.2 visits.
   •   The average total cost to obtain a service was Rs. 864, including service fee,
       travelling and food.
   •   45% of the citizens were aware of the Sri Lanka government Country Portal;
       whist 55%citizens were not aware.
   •   Of the 329 citizens in the sample, only 44 (13.5%), had used some form of e-
       service provided by the government organization.
   •   Of the respondents who were aware of the websites 95% reported a positive
       perception of the websites they had visited.
   •   99% of the Citizens’ were satisfied with the efficiency of the government
       services.

   Some key findings of the web content analysis;

   •   the layout and appearance of the surveyed websites were at a higher level in
       terms of their usability aspects, in most of them
   •   Navigation structure and capability of the websites surveyed during this study
       was at remarkably good levels except for few isolated cases.
   •   all the websites included in this survey performed poorly in terms of their
       content, where either the full content was not available under the given links,

                                          49
       or the content included was not relevant to the context of the hyperlink or the
       website
   •   Lower page performance due to the inappropriate formatting or large size of
       the downloadable file.

Another finding was that usage of the e-government services was low. This resonates
with the UN e-Government Survey 2012 report which stated that the level of e-
government usage was generally low, even in the most advanced countries. In EU 27
countries, the average usage rate is 32 percent, and in OECD countries, the average
usage rate in 2010 was only around 40 per cent.

The survey indicated that awareness of e-services was low and so was the usage.
However, there was high satisfaction with regard to the efficiency and effectiveness of
the government services provided. Further there was a reduction in time spent for
obtaining public services by 29% and increase in the level of satisfaction by 17%
compared with the results of the survey carried out in 2010.

Government Organizations websites have highly usable structure, information
organization and technical features supporting usability by the general public
irrespective of the ICT literacy, mode of access and language barriers. However,
regular updates to contents remain at a poor level with significant number of websites
in the sample not being update for long periods.

Recommendations include the following;

   •   The existing Computer Literacy Rate of 56% should be increased by revisiting
       the ‘Nenasala” program; encourage computer education facilities through
       incentives; make computer education compulsory in the school education
       curricular.
   •   North and East provinces should be given special attention in computer literacy
       and the use of ICT to update the systems.
   •   The government organizations web sites should be up dated regularly
       according to the guideline of the e-Policy.
   •   E-Services should have a well-planned awareness and propaganda campaign to
       inform the citizen about the e-services and the benefits.
   •   To set up a centralized mechanism to monitor all government websites with
       information updates and to take necessary remedial actions.




                                          50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                    51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                     Borrower’s Evaluation Report (Draft)

    1.   Introduction
    2.   Project Outcome/Achievements
    3.   Project Outputs/Deliverables
    4.   Factors Affecting Implementation
    5.   Transition Arrangements for sustaining project’s achievements after the project closure
    6.   Risks for Sustainability
    7.   Bank Performance
    8.   Borrower’s Performance
    9.   Lessons Learned

Introduction

Original project development objective:

The aim is promoting the use of information and communication technology to: (i) generate growth, employment
and equity; (ii) provide affordable access to means of information and communication, including access by citizens
and businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and enhance the competitiveness of
industries, small and medium enterprises and other private sector entities.

The objective would be achieved by (i) establishing an effective, citizen-centered and business-friendly
government; (ii) empowering the rural poor, disadvantaged groups, women, and youth through increased and
affordable access to information and communication tools; (iii) developing leadership and skills in ICT; and (iv)
creating employment in the ICT industry and ICT-enabled services, and enhancing the competitiveness of user
industries and services

The parent project comprises the following component programs:
1. ICT Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development Program (e-Leadership);
2. ICT Human Resource Development and Industry Promotion Program (ICBP);
3. Backbone Communications Infrastructure (BCI) – under cancellation;
4. Telecenter Development Program (Telecenters);
5. Re-engineering Government Program (Re-Gov);
6. E-Society Program (E-Society).

The Parent Project and extension

The parent project has operated for 6.25 years, and is extended by 2 years up to Dec 31, 2011. The project has
undergone two restructurings, in 2008 and 2011, both having the effect of reallocating funding away from the BCI
component which was lagging, and scaling up the remaining components which were operating successfully.

All PDOs of the parent project have been over-achieved (by 700% to 1700%). All intermediate targets are over-
achieved as well

Additional Financing

The project was given further extension by two years under additional funding up to end of 2013. The project
development objective remains unchanged in the AF. The aim is to provide additional support to scale up activities
that will enhance the project's impact and development effectiveness through (i) consolidating existing high impact
activities including e-Government applications, common platforms and service delivery points ; (ii) bridging
infrastructure, training, establishing technical standards, regulations and legislative gaps in order to achieve the
above ; (iii) completing and enhancing minimum enabling environment for the above to function ; and (iv) using
the available services effectively.

The AF comprises the following component programs:
        Component 1:Re-engineering Government (US$ 3.75million): This will focus on 3 main activity areas,
         namely: Lanka Government Network (LGN) Phase 3 & Training, Lanka Gate and Eservices which will
         scale up, rollout and improve access to citizens throughout the country to government e-services resulting
         in efficiency improvements in service delivery.
        Component 2: Integrated Communication (US$ 0.96 million): Component 3: Common Enabling
         Environment (US$1.59 million): This is intended to create awareness at all these levels about on line
         services offered by the government. The strategy and its implementation will also look in to improving
         coordination between government agencies, development partners and service providers with the purpose


                                                        52
         of improving efficiency and access to ICT enabled services. The other function is to effectively
         communicate the need for adherence to standards when developing ICT applications.

        Component 4: Telecenters & e-Society (US$ 2.39 million): The component will support the
         establishment of extra 40 telecentres in underserved areas. It will also support the rolling out of eservices
         through these centres and the development of 1-2 high impact services in collaboration with the private
         sector.

        Component 5: Improving Information Technology and Information Technology Enabled Services
         (IT/ITES): Sector Competitiveness (US$1.31 million): Improving Information Technology and
         Information Technology Enabled Services (IT/ITES) Sector Competitiveness (US$1.31 million): To
         improve the Location Readiness Index (LRI) for IT/ITES industry in terms of Knowledge Processing and
         IT services. They include: Industry statistics and information; capacity development; train the trainer
         programs in selected certifications, marketing and promotions.


Out of the seven outcome level indicators five indicators have already achieved project end targets. Except
for the Business usage subscale of the NRI sub index and female beneficiaries. The rest of the indicators have
exceeded the project end targets. Ten out of 14 intermediate indicators have been over achieved
Project implementation
All PDOs of the parent project have been over-achieved (by 700% to 1700%). All intermediate targets are over-
achieved as well. The project is rated Satisfactory. Financial management, procurement, and management functions
are satisfactory. Project Development Objectives (PDO). Out of the seven PDO indicators of AF , six have been
fully achieved.
Restructuring in 2011. The BCI component that aimed at constructing a national backbone cable to provide
internet connectivity has been cancelled in an official project restructuring process. This component has been
stalled and re-initiated twice, due to the complex political economy of the internet market, The restructuring
cancels SDR 6,498,271.17 of the project funding, and reallocates a further SDR 1,613,728.83 from the BCI
component to scale up the remaining components.




                                                         53
Key programme specific outcomes

Programme                         Programme Objective                                                Key outcomes
ICT Policy, Leadership and        (a) create a proactive institutional, policy, and regulatory       Improved Policy environment measured through NRI: The overall ICT
Institutional Development         environment that is supportive of ICT enabled reform and           development status of Sri Lanka, which was earlier in the 72% ranking (in
Program                           development;                                                       2005) in the Networked Readiness Index (NRI) has now improved to the 48%
                                                                                                     ranking in 2013. The World Economic Forum reported in the 2011 that Sri
                                  (b) develop the ICT leadership and capacity among senior
                                  government officials and other key stakeholders necessary to       Lanka was “amongst the ten most dynamic countries that have progressed
                                  implement reforms; and                                             the most in the NRI”.

                                  (c) communicate these initiatives and policies to the wider        Enabling legal environment- Improved usage of electronic laws: the project
                                  stakeholder audience and facilitate partnerships around e-Sri      supported to draft key ICT related Laws, including the Electronic
                                  Lanka.                                                             Transactions Act (2006), the Computer Crimes Act (2007), data protection
                                                                                                     legislations etc several capacity building and awareness programmes were
                                  This component aimed at enhancing the existing legal framework
                                  to support private sector growth and promote competition and       conducted by the project to promote the laws among the legal community;
                                  create a level playing field, support cyber security and promote   mainly for judges and lawyers
                                  use of local languages in ICT for inclusive growth
                                                                                                     Necessary financial regulations: ICTA took the lead role with Finance Ministry
                                                                                                     to prepare the Financial Regulations (FR 447/2010), which has enabled the
                                                                                                     use of Credit Cards and electronic payment methods (including mobile
                                                                                                     payments) to pay for government services.

                                                                                                     Enabling Policy environment- Improved usage of e Government Policy across
                                                                                                     the government: The “e-Government Policy”, was developed through a
                                                                                                     combined multi-stakeholder consultation process, and adopted by the Cabinet
                                                                                                     of Ministers.


                                                                                                     Mitigate and handle cyber threats and incidents cyber security and cybercrime
                                                                                                     through establishment of Sri Lanka CERT (Computer Emergency Readiness
                                                                                                     Team). The total incidents reported was increased by 25% in 2012 compared
                                                                                                     with year 2011. Sri Lanka CERT presently handles about Facebook and
                                                                                                     webmail account hijacking incidents 70% relate to creation of fake accounts,
                                                                                                     26% are complaints relating to hacked accounts, whilst around 7% harassment
                                                                                                     complaints. They also handle technical forensic investigations and incidents
                                                                                                     relating to phishing attacks on banking and finance industry.

                                                                                                     The integrated communication program had been able to build a brand name for



                                                                                     54
                                                                                                        ICTA/eSri Lanka as the agency for improving ICT literacy, computer
                                                                                                        penetration and ICT usage in the country. The total readership of newsletters
                                                                                                        are estimated to be around 2.6 million and listeners of radio programs total up
                                                                                                        to 5.0 million and the total viewers of ICT related TV programs are around 10.0
                                                                                                        million.

                                                                                                        Designating ICTA as the National Certification Authority for the purpose of the
                                                                                                        Electronics Transactions Act.

                                                                                                        formally issued the Electronic Transaction (e-Population Register) Regulation
                                                                                                        No. 1 of 2013 to be published in the Government Gazette to give legal effect to
                                                                                                        eGov activities

                                                                                                        Local language initiative to enable trilingual websites and databases. Over 84%
                                                                                                        of users are aware of and over 72% able to use standard based local language
                                                                                                        computing
ICT Human Resources Development   (a) to upgrade Sri Lanka’s ICT capabilities, competitiveness, and     Sri Lanka was awarded the prestigious “outsourcing destination of the Year”
and Industry Promotion Program    revenues by improving the quality of its managers, professionals,     award by the National Outsourcing Association (NOA), UK in 2013.
                                  and technology;
                                  (b) to develop a multilayered and multiskilled ICT workforce
                                                                                                        Sri Lanka was ranked in the top 10 most improved countries for doing
                                  and to increase the employability of school drop-outs; and
                                  (c) to improve the effectiveness of local industry, especially        business in 2013 Sri Lanka was also ranked among the top 25 global
                                  small and medium enterprises (SMEs), through the use of ICT.          outsourcing destinations by AT Kearney and among the top 30 outsourcing
                                                                                                        destinations by Gartner.

                                                                                                        As of 2013, export revenues from IT-BPO services are estimated at over
                                  AF:                                                                   US$ 500 m, growing at approximately 22% per annum. When combined with
                                  To improve the Location Readiness Index (LRI) for IT/ITES
                                                                                                        the domestic market, total revenues are close to US$ One Billion.
                                  industry in terms of Knowledge Processing and IT services. They
                                  include: Industry statistics and information; capacity
                                  development; train the trainer programs in selected certifications,   Direct IT employment exceeded 75,000 high-paying jobs in the IT/BPO sector,
                                  marketing and promotions                                              with indirect employment at 180,000..
                                                                                                        from 2011- 2013 during the AF - 18581 IT jobs have been created in the IT
                                                                                                        industry, non IT user organizations and the Government ( target of 10,000
                                                                                                        additional jobs was expected to be created)

Regional Telecommunications       Promoting provision of competitive and affordable                     The component was cancelled in the restructuring process and budget was
Network Program                   telecommunications services for various users, particularly for       reallocated among other programmes
                                  the poorer segments of society and integrate the communities of
                                  the country.
                                  AF: this component was not implemented under AF
Telecenter Development Program    To empower the population in rural areas of South, North, and         ICT literacy rate, which was less than 8% in 2005 had surpassed 35% by 2012,
                                  East through affordable community access to information and           primarily due to the expansion of the Rural Telecenter (Nenasala) network in



                                                                                    55
                                    communication technologies.                                   remote areas under the e-Sri Lanka Development initiative.

                                    AF:                                                           65.2% are financially self-sustaining, Out of 741 established 629 remain in
                                                                                                  operation as at December 2013
                                    The component will support the establishment of extra 40
                                    telecentres in underserved areas.
                                                                                                  Nenasala’ users are 40.5% female, and 54.3% youth.

                                                                                                  Nenasala centers promoted several ICT-enabled rural entrepreneurship, and.
                                                                                                  has established partnerships with multinational companies, private and public
                                                                                                  organizations, development Agencies and NGOs.

                                                                                                  Based on learning from the past an improved business model was established
                                                                                                  in the North and East and none of the Tele-centers were subsidized under the
                                                                                                  AF as in the case of the original project

                                                                                                  Tele-center training is now recognized through accreditation by the National
                                                                                                  Accreditation Authority and the Tele-centers are in the process of getting
                                                                                                  accreditation, a new development during the AF.

                                                                                                  The user satisfaction rate for core government eServices is 85%. 54% of the
                                                                                                  Tele-center operators are below 25 years and 61% had high level of IT
                                                                                                  knowledge.

                                                                                                  Eighty five percent of the operators indicated that there were no ICT facilities in
                                                                                                  the area before the Nenasalas were setup.

                                                                                                  70% of the users and 76% of the operators indicated that Tele-centers
                                                                                                  contributed to improving ICT literacy among community especially the youth.
                                                                                                   84,894 persons have received ICT-related training through nenasalas, of whom
                                                                                                  68.3% have been certified. The courses covered MS office, general computer
                                                                                                  training, internet and e-mail use, and courses for children. Such training has
                                                                                                  indeed raised the level of ICT literacy of the rural population, enhanced the
                                                                                                  level of computer use and ownership, raised job opportunities for the trainees,
                                                                                                  and increased the application of ICT knowledge and skills in the day to day
                                                                                                  lives of the beneficiaries.

                                                                                                  About 15% registered their training courses with the Tertiary and Vocational
                                                                                                  Education Commission, About 16% centers used for distance learning


Re-engineering Government Program   The programme pursues major and sustainable improvements in   Lanka Government Network is being used to provide government electronic



                                                                                   56
GOSL’s efficiency, transparency, effectiveness, and quality of   services in a secured manner. At present 550 provincials and central
services. For this purpose it will reinforce and expand          government organizations are connected.
fundamental governance and public management reforms for the
most part already identified by GOSL and the international
                                                                 Improved capacity of the government staff to use LGN. ICT Skills Training,
development community
                                                                 System Administration Training and Advance Technical Training for 850
                                                                 government officers in the northern and the eastern provinces under LGN stage
                                                                 III
AF:
Focussed on 3 main activity areas, namely: Lanka Government
                                                                 The government wide infrastructure was highly accepted
Network (LGN) Phase 3 & Training, Lanka Gate and Eservices
which will scale up, rollout and improve access to citizens
                                                                 enthusiasm shown by the public sector staff towards automation and training
throughout the country to government e-services resulting in
                                                                 and the willingness to use the systems to improve service delivery
efficiency improvements in service delivery
                                                                 (Under AF 600 govt officers trained on ICT skills, 150 govt officers trained
                                                                 on system admin training, 600 govt officers trained on ICT skills, 100
                                                                 government officer trained on advance ICT technical skills training
                                                                 (Joomla/A+/MySQL)
                                                                 Over 15,000 government staff and 600 Chief Innovation officers have been
                                                                 trained on basic ICK skill as well as advanced managerial skills under various
                                                                 programmes during the e Sri Lanka parent project.)

                                                                 Enabling infrastructure for rapid deployment and integration of electronic
                                                                 Services
                                                                 The Lanka Gate infrastructure comprising country portal (www.srilanka.lk ),
                                                                 internet and mobile payment gateway (Lanka Gov Payment Service), SMS
                                                                 gateway.
                                                                   dedicated Government cloud (first of its kind in South Asia),
                                                                 Interoperability framework for standards to secure data sharing,
                                                                 .
                                                                 More effective, efficient and citizen friendly mechanism for delivering public
                                                                 services-
                                                                 electronic services (eServices) are provided through multiple options (internet,
                                                                 SMS and mobile applications). In total 48 transactional and informational e
                                                                 services offered by 22 Government organizations.; over 135 interactive e-
                                                                 Services through websites; over 475 government websites;

                                                                 Usage of Reengineered e-Government applications (e-population registry
                                                                 project, e-pensions, and e-divisional secretariat)

                                                                 High usage of birth, marriage and death certificates; (20 million certificated



                                               57
                                                                                   were digitalized)

                                                                                   Successfully functioning human resources managements systems- at Ministry
                                                                                   of Public Administration,

                                                                                   High usage of Government Information Center covering over 3000 services -
                                                                                   over 5500 call per day) .

                                                                                   The e-Revenue License (the first transactional e-service) created the path to
                                                                                   accepting electronic payments for government services, was implemented in the
                                                                                   Western Province (2010) is now being replicated in the other provinces.

                                                                                   The Visa online through ETA (Electronic Travel Authority) also uses the Lanka
                                                                                   Gate Payment system.

                                                                                   The number of citizens conducting online transactions with the
                                                                                   government has increased from 7.2 million in December 2012 to 11 million
                                                                                   by end of November 2013 (these are number of hits and a single person may
                                                                                   use various e services) Sri Lanka government online portal started offering
                                                                                   services to the public in 2009.
                                                                                   empowered the public sector staff with necessary technical skills needed in
                                                                                   maintaining and managing multi-user computer systems and networks provided
                                                                                   through LGN

                                                                                   The e-Revenue License rollout is complete in Western Province and pilots have
                                                                                   commenced in the Southern and Central Provinces

                                                                                   e-Population Register, the roll out has been done in 5 districts (Colombo,
                                                                                   Kalutara, Puttalam, Nuwara Eliya, and Kurunegala) and is issuing eCertificates

                                                                                   Birth, Marriage and Death (BMB) Certificates are available in scanned form
                                                                                   which can be retrieved and issued to the public without delay.( birth, marriage
                                                                                   and death certificates can be obtained any divisional secretariats within the
                                                                                   district)

                                                                                   Multiple online payment mechanisms i.e (i) Credit/debit cards and (ii) mobile
                                                                                   payments. ICTA offers LGPS to all government organizations intending to
                                                                                   develop paying services offered to their clients.

eSociety Program   The programme goal is to promote the innovative use of ICT to   improve livelihood and living conditions of rural communities through using of



                                                                  58
                           meet economic and social needs of the most vulnerable groups in       localized ICT content and applications he contents were developed by CBOs
                           Sri Lanka; to develop approaches to scale up successful               supported by eSociety Programme. Some of this applications have the
                           applications; and to empower civil society with affordable access     potential for replication
                           to information, communication, and relevant local content.
                                                                                                 Availability of several local language applications that enable all ethnic groups
                                                                                                 to have equal access to eServices and benefit of ICT
                           AF:
                           It will also support the rolling out of eservices through these       Tamil language enabled services (e.g English learning for Tamil language
                           centres and the development of 1-2 high impact services in            users, Tamil language digitization project and web based A-Level science
                           collaboration with the private sector.                                learning system for Tamil students).

                            (under AF e-Society and telecenter programmes were                   Information Management systems that can be replicated in other sectors such
                           combined)                                                             as Irrigation Water Management in Maduruoya and Hospital Health
                                                                                                 Information Management

                                                                                                 Value added services distributed through Telecenters (services of some
                                                                                                 corporate businesses such John Keells, Intel, Dialog, HNB Assurance etc)

                                                                                                 staff qualified in ICT or ICT literate staff have increased in the public service in
                                                                                                 the provinces and they volunteer to provide technical support for efficient and
                                                                                                 effective service delivery
                                                                                                 User satisfaction:
                                                                                                 CAP & sCAP 77%, PAP- 60%, RAP 72%

                                                                                                 AF Projects
                                                                                                 74%
Integrated Communication   In the original project this component was under the ICT Policy       Communication activities carried out by ICTA seem to have been effective as
                           programme.                                                            the ICT use in rural areas and among public officials have increased
                           AF: An integrated communication strategy will be developed and
                           implemented at national, district and at village level. intended to
                           create awareness at all these levels about on line services offered
                           by the government




                                                                              59
Project Outputs/Deliverables

Programme                           Projects                                           Project Outputs/Deliverables
ICT Policy, Leadership and          E laws, e leadership (CIO training) , integrated        •   Enacted ICT related Laws, including the Electronic Transactions Act (2006), the
Institutional Development Program   communication*                                              Computer Crimes Act (2007), data protection legislations etc

                                                                                            •   Sri Lanka Computer Emergency Readiness Team (SLCERT) was set up. The CERT| was
                                                                                                established in 2006 as Sri Lanka’s National CERT by the ICTA. The CERT handled
                                                                                                incidents relating to phishing attacks in the banking industry, web compromise incidents
                                                                                                and consultancy and awareness programs relating to cyber security.

                                                                                            •   LGN – Certificate Authority (LGN-CA).was set up in 2009 to facilitate the digital
                                                                                                certificate requirements of the public sector government organizations.

                                                                                            •   finalized a Data Protection Code of practice and this would be shared amongst stakeholders

                                                                                            •   Local Languages Initiative (LLI): i) Enabling Sinhala and Tamil in mobile operating
                                                                                                systems; (ii) Text to Speech System for Sri Lanka Tamil and Speech to Text system for Sri
                                                                                                Lanka Tamil; (iii) Unicode compliant publishing in Sinhala and Tamil (iv) Developing a
                                                                                                Sri Lanka Tamil language corpus; and (v) Developing Translation Tools to enable
                                                                                                translations between Sinhala and Tamil have been implemented or nearing completion

                                                                                            •   Facilitated to issue the Financial Regulations (FR 447/2010), which has enabled the use
                                                                                                of Credit Cards and electronic payment methods (including mobile payments) to pay for
                                                                                                government services
                                                                                            •   Developed a comprehensive e government policy and the policy document approved by
                                                                                                the cabinet of Ministers
                                                                                            •   800 CIOs were trained under various programmes
ICT Human Resources                 All activities under this component carried out
Development and Industry            with a view to enhancing the competitiveness            •   Under AF 55 Trainers and 1,271 staff in private companies have been trained under ITES
Promotion Program                   of Sri Lanka across the region and                          skilled training and train the trainers program to increase the skill base.
                                    internationally
                                                                                            •   under the Industry Business Promotion Program, 37 companies participated. trainers (ToT)
                                                                                                program

                                                                                            •   Offer IT/ITES vendor certification as part of promoting increased certified IT skills; fund
                                                                                                training for new recruits of BPOs to realign them to ITEs related operations.

                                                                                            •   seed capital is provided to start ups to develop innovative business concepts and ideas, the
                                                                                                domestic IT SME linkage program that promotes the introduction and utilization of ICT in
                                                                                                SMEs and which enhances competitiveness while providing a platform for IT SMEs to
                                                                                                show case their products and service offerings in the various provinces in the country



                                                                                       60
Regional Telecommunications      -                                              The project was cancelled and budget was reallocated among other components
Network Program
Telecenter Development Program   Telecenter projecte
                                                                                     •   As at December 2013 741 telecenters (Nenasala centers) were established throughout the
                                                                                         country. All the telecenter operators and owners were trained under formal and residential
                                                                                         training programmes.. ground level implementation support provide to telecented through
                                                                                         mobilizing a field support team in all locations

                                                                                Under AF
                                                                                   •    40 Tele-centers have been established in 5 districts of the Northern Province and 2 districts
                                                                                        of Eastern Province which were affected by the conflict and are functioning

                                                                                     •   300 Tele-center/operators have been provided with technical training of which 80
                                                                                         participants are from the newly set up Tele-centers in the North and East

                                                                                     •   13-day residential training program to provide necessary skills to 200 Nenasala owners and
                                                                                         operators, including 80 participants from the recently set up Nenasala centers in the
                                                                                         Northern Province

                                                                                     •   Emphasis should be laid by the Government’s ambitious plan of having telecenters in
                                                                                         every Grama Niladari Division.

                                                                                     •   Nenasala website with GIS features - create more information about the Nenaslas and
                                                                                         create competition among them.


Reengineering Government         E Pension                                           •   LGN: The installation of the Lanka Government Network (LGN) in 74 sites in all 5
Program                          E population registry                                   districts in the Northern Province and 2 remaining districts in the Eastern Province. With
                                 ICT Capacity building for government staff              the expansion of the LGN network into the conflict affected areas, the connectivity cycle
                                 E HRM,                                                  has been completed.
                                 E State lanad Information Management Project        •   Lanka Gate (middle ware component)
                                 E Samuardhi Project                                 •   Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based messaging infrastructure, which is envisioned
                                 E Local government Project                              to be the gateway for electronic information and electronic delivery in Sri Lanka. launched
                                 E Diriya project                                        in 2009 December and further enhanced under AF to cater for the changing demands and
                                 E Services                                              emerging technological advancements This includes improving Lanka Gate security
                                                                                         framework, information and service classification, leveraging on the mobile initiatives to
                                                                                         enable citizens make use of mobile as a payment mechanism and as a service delivery
                                                                                         channel

                                                                                     •   Provision of E Services:
                                                                                     •   new e-services proposed under the AF have been launched , Some of the eServices are for
                                                                                         Colombo Municipal Council (Property tax payments, Payment of trade taxes, Payment of



                                                                                61
         taxes on business), for Employment Trust Fund ( ETF member management service,
         viewing ETF balances, Claim application status) etc

     •   Country Portal: www.srilanka.lk serves as a primary interface that connects users to the
         eServices provided within the Lanka Gate. Therefore the Country Portal is a fundamental
         access point for citizens, non-citizens, businesses, agents and government employees to
         various government organizations and businesses in Sri Lanka and abroad.

     •   Lanka Government Payment Service (LGPS): core component of Lanka Gate which
         offers multiple online payment mechanisms via credit/debit cards and mobile payments,
         enables government organizations to offer paying services to citizens. This was possible
         due to the amendments to the Financial Regulations (FR 447/2010) carried by the Ministry
         of Finance and Planning, which was facilitated by ICTA, as one of the key regulatory
         reforms of the Lanka Gate initiative, to enable government organizations to offer paying
         services to citizens.


     •   Mobile Portal: In addition to facilitating mobile payments, ICTA has offered Government
         SMS, Government USSD and Mobile Apps as part of the mobile based service portfolio.

     •   Lanka Government Community Cloud (LGC)
         Servers will be hosted by the ‘Cloud’ and reduces the cost of electricity, UPS, AC and
         allows automatic scalability, ensures high reliability with no-down time. The LGC
         currently hosts Lanka Gate, eRevenue License, Sahana Disaster Management System,
         eLocal Government, eSamurdhi and Location Code and Village list

     •   Training/ empowering government staff
         Completed the training of 850 staff including the CIOs in the North and East as envisaged
         under AF.
         The number of Certified Chief Innovation Officers (CIOs) under AF was 165 of which
         89% have completed the training
         the training of 850 staff in the North and Eastern Provinces under AF to ensure that public
         sector staff are equipped to use the ICT infrastructure
         general ICT skills training for 600 government officers, technical skills training for 150
         System Administrators and advanced internally recognized ICT training for 100 officials in
         the North and Eastern Provinces have been completed
         Training was delivered through 7 training centers in each of the 7 districts
         a post graduate diploma in e-Government offered by Post Graduate Institute of
         Management (PIM

         100 government officers in the North and East in Joomla/PHP/My SQL and A+ in addition
         to a certification process for government leaders in ICT for development.




62
                                                                             •    Information systems and applications
                                                                                  Some of the main applications developed under the original project like e-Revenue License
                                                                                  (e-RL), e-Pensions, e-Civil registry were to be further enhanced and rolled out during AF.
                                                                                  The e-Revenue License rollout is complete in Western Province and pilots have
                                                                                  commenced in the Southern and Central Provinces. Western Province accounts for more
                                                                                  than 50% of motor vehicle registration in the country.

                                                                             •    E government Policy
eSociety Program       CAP, PAP, sCAP, Sustainability grants, e         there were several successful pilot activities with potential for scale up and replicated in other
                       Swabhimani events                                locations

                                                                        180 e SDI grant projects including 34 PAP (5 mil Rs) nd 143 CAP ( 0.5 Rs mil small grabt projects
                                                                        implemented. Out of that 43 projects replicated in 1641 sites
Under AF: Integrated   The focus of the additional financing aimed at   The media activities and event specific communications were carried out throughout the country,
Communication          creating awareness for major applications and    with a special focus on the North and East Provinces as AF mainly focused on these areas in order to
                       other e Services developed under the Re-         create awareness about services developed under the project
                       engineering government component. The            a weekly TV and a radio programs were aired where awareness was created and discussions were
                       strategy adopted was multi-pronged and           conducted about the eServices provided and other ICT related information to the general public.
                       integrated where all channels of mass media      ICTA has carried out many awareness activities among its stakeholders. Media activities and event
                       (TV, Print media and Radio) were used when a     specific communication were carried out nation-wide but with a special focus on the North and
                       specific eService developed under the project    Eastern Provinces
                       was launched.
                                                                        During the period from December 2012 to December 2013, 24 events, 657 press releases in all there
                                                                        languages, 97 advertisements (e.g. Lanka gate, eDiriya awareness, BMD awareness, eCitizen project
                                                                        etc) 13 publications and 206 media programs were conducted




                                                                        63
4.         Factors Affecting Implementation

      1.   It was a strong and positive factor that ICT agency is operation under the residential Secretariat.
      2.   It is an advantage that capacity building has been recognized as an integral part of project implementation n the
           project design. Attention has been paid to train project stakeholders at various level. Government CIOs, other
           government staff in all level including head of departments, District and divisional secretaries, management
           assistant staff were empowered through various training. These training were on basic awareness, ICT skill
           training, and tailor made training overseas priogrammes, postgraduate diploma and MBA one government
           conducted in well recognized local universities.

      3.   Cross sectorial programme design and holistic e development approach adapted was highly beneficial, even
           though some minor changes made during the implementation and in the restructuring process

      4.   From the beginning itself, the Bank strongly supported for a comprehensive M&E system. ICTA was able to set
           up well-structured clearly defined results based Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). the M&E system was
           focusing on measuring performances, evaluating progress, assessing impact and ensuring public accountability.

      5.   Participatory approach adapted by ICTA was useful for getting the project stakeholders involved in the
           implementation and thereby created a ownership which lead for sustainability

      6.   Used innovative mechanism to promote the software industry, diffuse ICT among small enterprises, and invest
           in appropriate human resources for the information society.

      7.   ICTA organizational structure help immensely to retain quality workforce and implement innovative projects
           successfully. Commitment made by the ICTA towards achieving results was highly recognized by the
           stakeholders at all level


      8.   Incentives given to bridge the digital divide through telecenters was also a contributory factor to achieve the
           overall results of Sri Lanka results



 5.        Transition Arrangements for sustaining project’s achievements after the project closure

      •    ICTA has already set up a subsidiary Lanka Government Information Infrastructure-LGII (fully owned subsidiary
           of ICTA ) which is funded through the government budget. The aim of LGII is to provide technical and systems
           maintenance support and technical oversight for the major programs initiated by ICTA.,
      •    The e government projects initiated under the eSri Lanka project have been handed over to the implementing
           agencies.. In the 2014 Budget, the required allocations have been provided for critical activities.

      •    ICTA already created enabling environment (legal and policy framework, standards, core infrastructure, human
           resources development and software platform) required for ICT development of the country

      •    Income generating state agencies is required to pay for the LGII services in the immediate future. National
           Budget 2014 has allocated adequate funds to sustain critical activities.

      •    Under the eSri Lanka project, significant investment was made towards build capacities of primary stakeholders
           and project beneficiaries. This training programmes ensured formation of a cadre of public servants competent in
           the planning, use, management, and outsourcing of ICT.

      •    Complex ICT application development and facility operation will be outsourced to the private sector.

      •    By focusing on creating an enabling policy, legal, and regulatory framework, the project accelerated private
           sector participation in investment and operations. The improved coverage, quality, and price of
           telecommunications services will be sustained as investment and competition grows within a clear regulatory
           environment.

      •    Ministry of Telecommunication and IT strongly support to implement and monitor the Nenasala project.
           Arrangements are being made through the Ministry to get Divisional Secretariats involved to support and monitor
           the Nenasala centers in the future.




                                                              64
6.        Risks for Sustainability




7. Lessons Learned

     1.   there is a need for more inter agency coordination at the higher policy level to achieve the optimum level
          of usage of the ICT infrastructure provided under the Project.

     2.   Need more follow up and capacity building on the rolling out of Government applications such as
          eRevenue, eCivil Registry and Pensions and coordinate closely with the LGN users to promote use of the
          systems installed and provide regular and continued technical support

     3.   Government organizations is facing a serious problem of retaining ICT trained staff and especially when
          they are transferred, adequate replacements have not been made.

     4.   There is a high level of acceptance of the infrastructure but adequate e-Services have not been rolled out
          yet for optimal use of the system.

     5.   As there is a lack of awareness about the LGC various government organization are using standalone
          server systems which lead for high cost for maintaining. Need more awareness and promotion


     6.   The VoIP phone system installed under LGN is not adequately used especially by the DSs since the
          “Upahara Scheme ” was introduced specially to the public officers by Mobitel which is convenient and
          economical.

     7.   In addition, the ICTA has been providing FOSS based systems (Free and Open Source System) under
          LGN Phase 3, a virus free system which would help in reducing payment of license fees in the future. In
          the LGN Phase 3, all the work stations have been provided with FOSS based systems


     8.   The biggest challenge for transformational change lies on getting organizational buy in. which needs
          more effective strategies to handle the situation.

     9.   Managing organizational change is critical to overcoming resistance to change in work practice and
          service delivery. It has been realized that managerial skills are often more critical than technical skills for
          managing the organizational change. Special strategies need to be adapted right from the beginning to
          address this matter.

     10. Timely, accurate and reliable M&E findings are critical to improve programme performances. Having
         M&E capacity at the highest of the government organizations is crucial to secure oversight and
         accountability, authority and influence to make course corrections. M&E should be viewed as a strategic
         tool for the design, implementation and adapting changes.

     11. Actual time spent for designing the M&E system was much higher than the allocated time in the contract.
         The reason is delaying in planning and designing projects. Therefore ICTA had to adapt an iterative
         process to design and pilot implementation. The ICTA had to amend the contract accordingly with the
         request of the consultant.

     12. Nenasala significantly contributed to improve the ICT literacy level and to start small business in the
         rural areas,. As there is a room still for further improvements in terms of usage, more promotional
         activities are required in the community level/ catchment area of Nenasala




                                                          65
The core focus areas were:

    (i)          Government Efficiency;
    (ii)         IT Industry Development and SME Competitiveness;
    (iii)         Access, Connectivity and Local Content and Innovation

           Component 1 on e-regulation, policy, and strategy (e-leadership) helped introduce transparency and
            efficiency in government, as well as innovation.
           Component 2 (ICBP) had strengthened Sri Lankan business and SME competitiveness through ICTA.
           Component 3 (BCI) targeted internet connectivity for all, and despite cancellation, the dialogue on breaking
            up the existing broadband cable monopoly had actually resulted in competition from an alternative wireless
            technology which had indeed penetrated remote rural areas and provided connectivity.
           Components 4 and 6, on Telecenters and E-Society, targeted the lower-income groups and remote, rural areas
            with ICT, e-services, and innovation grants to increase access to markets and information essential to their
            livelihoods
           Component 5 (Re-Gov) placed the government on the web making public services available online to
            business and citizens.




                                                               66
                                            Baseline       YR4         YR5         YR6         YR6            YR7              YR7           YR8           YR8           YR 9        YR 9
          Outcome Indicators                               2008        2009      Feb 2010     Oct 2010       Mar 2011        Sep 2011      April 2012    Dec 2012      June 2013    Dec 2013

(I.A) 5,000 beneficiaries in targeted       0             3,500      5,000       5000        5000           5000           5000           5000           5000         5000         5000
communities using telecenters to
                                            Actual:       20,000     20,000      23,474      33,818         33,818         33,818         33,818         50811        50811        43,475
improve their communication
                                                          82%        82%         75%         96%            96%            96%            96%            ---                       87%
opportunities and access to services rate
of 70% (by year four)
(I.B) x [% or #) increase over baseline     i) usage:     TBD by     TBD by      TBD by      TBD by         TBD by         TBD by         TBD by
in utilization and satisfaction with                      selectio   selection   selection   selection      selection      selection      selection
services established as a result of e-SF    CAP -         n          process.    process.    process.       process.       process.       process
financial assistance.                       25% low,      process.
                                            44%
                                            average,
                                            31% high
                                            usage.
                                            PAP –
                                            20% avg,
                                            80% high
                                            usage.

                                            ii)
                                            satisfactio
                                            n: n.a.
                                            (2007)
                                            Actual:       CAP -      CAP         CAP         CAP            CAP            CAP            CAP            User         CAP- 83%     CAP &
                                                          25%,       i)20%,58     i)          i) 20%,58%,    i) 20%,58%,    i) 20%,58%,    i) 20%,58%,   Satisfacti   PAP- 64%     sCAP
                                                          44%,       %, 22%.     20%,58%,    22%.           22%.           22%.           22%.           on           sCAP- 100%   77%
                                                          31%        ii) 90%     22%.        ii) 90%        ii) 90%        ii) 90%        ii) 90%        CAP-         RAP- 67%     PAP- 60%
                                                          PAP –      PAP         ii) 90%     PAP            PAP            PAP            PAP            83%                       RAP 72%
                                                          20%        i)33%,      PAP         i)33%, 38%,    i)33%, 38%,    i)33%, 38%,    i)33%, 38%,    PAP-                      AF Projects
                                                          avg,       38%,        i)33%,      29%            29%            29%            29%            64%                       74%
                                                          80%        29%         38%, 29%    ii) 96%.       ii) 96%        ii) 96%.       ii) 96%.       sCAP-
                                                          high       ii) 96%     ii) 96%.                                                                100%
                                                          usage.                                                                                         RAP-
                                                                                                                                                         67%
(II.) 5% of target beneficiaries (5mn       0             4%         5%          5%          5%             5%             5%             5%
citizens and businesses) conducting         Actual:       632,500    732,500     776,000     4,144,448      4,144,448      5,778,290      5,778,290      7,636,974    9,009,250    11,088,886
transactions with the central government                  12.7%      14.7%       (15.5%)     (82.9%)        (82.9%)        (115%)         (115%)         (153%)       (180%)       (222%)
on-line
                                                                                              67
(III.A) Reach 4.2 score on the business   3.46        4.1      4.2      4.2      4.2         4.2      4.2      4.2
usage subscale of the NRI index           business
                                          usage
                                          subset
                                          score in
                                          NRI
                                          (2003)
                                          Actual:     4.59     4.84     4.84     4.86        4.63     4.6 32   4.67     4.55     4.0     4.0

(III.B) 10,000 jobs created in ICT        < 3,000     10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000      10,000   10,000   10,000
industry (IT-enabled services)
                                          Note:
                                          revised
                                          baseline:
                                          20,279
                                          jobs
                                          Actual:     42,713   44,660   50,159   50,159      50,159   50,159   50,159   70,256   70256   75,107




                                                                                        68
 PDO Indicator (AF)

                                                                               Original Target Values (from   Formally Revised Target          Actual Value Achieved at
                     Indicator                              Baseline Value
                                                                                   approval documents)                Values                  Completion or Target Years
Indicator:
1. Improved access and use of ICT in target areas
(as measured by number of beneficiaries in target
communities using telecentres on a regular basis to
                                                    0                        33,000                           40,000                    43,475
improve their communication opportunities and
access to services – e.g. Health,
Education, Employment & Govt.

2. User satisfaction with applications established                                                                                      CAP & sCAP 77%
under the e-society grant mechanism with a           0                       70                               70                        PAP- 60%
satisfaction rate of 70%.                                                                                                               RAP 72%
                                                                                                                                        AF Projects 74%
3. 7.5% of target beneficiaries (7.5
mn. citizens and businesses)
                                                     0                       7,500,000                        7,500,000                 11,088,886
conducting transactions with the
central government on-line.
4. Reach 4.7score on the business
                                                     3.46                    4.70                             4.70                      4.0
usage subscale of the NRI index
5. 10,000 jobs created in ICT
                                                     20,000                  60,000                           60,000                    75,107
industry (IT-enabled services
6. Project beneficiaries                             0                       7,700,000                        7,700,000                 11,610,588
7. Of which female (beneficiaries)                   0                       2,700,150                        2,700,150                 --




                                                                                         69
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    70
