 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14701

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/30/2015

              Country: Sri Lanka
            Project ID: P081771                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: E-lanka Development          Project Costs (US$M):                     83.00               85.82

  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      53.00               54.40
      Sector Board:       Global                     Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Information/Communi
                          cations Technology
          Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                09/21/2004
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2009           12/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Information technology (40%); Telecommunications (30%); Central government
                          administration (15%); General public administration sector (10%); Law and justice (5%)
         Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (33%); Administrative and civil service reform (33%);
                          Infrastructure services for private sector development (17%); Micro; Small and Medium
                          Enterprise support (17%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Jorge Garcia-Garcia     Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 15, 2004 (p.17) the Project Development Objective (PDO) is to
    “assist the Borrower in promoting the use of information and communication technology to: i) generate growth,
    employment and equity; (ii) provide affordable access to means of information and communication, including
    access by citizens and businesses to public information and services online; and (iii) encourage and enhance the
    competitiveness of industries, small and medium enterprises and other private sector entities.”

    According to the Project Appraisal Documents (PAD) (p.4) the PDO is “to enhance growth, and equity through (i)
    improved access and use of means of information and communication; (ii) access to and use of public services
    on-line by businesses and citizens (iii) enhanced competitiveness of the private sector and in particular of
    knowledge industry and SMEs. “ The Additional Financing Paper of January 5, 2012 (p. 25) maintains these
    objectives.

    Since one of the objectives of the Loan Agreement was broad and high level. The review will use the project
    development objectives stated in the PAD, which are the same objectives stated in the Additional Financing
    Paper.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project has six components (PAD p.4). The ICR does not comment why actual spending for some
    components substantially exceeded the appraisal estimate. This Review notes that Additional Financing was
   provided which could explain for the higher actual costs for some components.

   Component 1: Information Communication Technology (ICT) Policy, Leadership and Institutional Development
   Program (appraisal estimate US $ 8 million, additional financing of US $ 2.55 million, actual US$ 18.63 million):
   This component was to finance building capacity for ICT leadership in different areas such as design,
   implementation and coordination of the overall e-Sri Lanka initiative. Additional financing was to finance the
   implementation of an integrated communication strategy at the national, district and village level and improving
   the enabling environment in terms of new laws, policies, regulations and standards.

   Component 2: ICT Human Resources Development and Industry Promotion Program (appraisal estimate US $
   5.88 million, additional financing of US $ 1.31 million, actual US$ 6.49 million: This component was to finance
   the growth of the domestic ICT sector through various activities such as promoting ICT services, developing
   human resources for ICT, promoting ICT diffusion in the private sector, and enhancing competitiveness of the
   domestic ICT industry. Additional financing was to finance the improvement of the location readiness Index for
   IT/ITES industry in terms of knowledge processing and ICT services.

   Component 3: Regional Telecommunications Network (RTN) Development Program (appraisal estimate US $
   19 million, actual US$ 0.83 million): This component was to finance competitive and affordable
   telecommunication services for targeted populations, who had low connectivity, in the poorest regions of the
   country. This component was dropped in 2011.

   Component 4: Telecenter Development Program (appraisal estimate US $ 7.40 million, additional financing of
   US$ 2.39 million, actual US$ 11.40 million): This component was to finance the establishment of telecenters in
   rural areas in the South, North and East of the country to provide affordable community access to ICT. Also
   voucher schemes and community outreach programs were included to increase demand for ICT services from
   targeted population. Additional financing was to finance the establishment of 40 telecenters in underserved
   areas, the rolling out of e-services through these telecenters and one or two high impact services in partnership
   with the private sector.

   Component 5: Reengineering Government Program (appraisal estimate (US$ 35.20 million, additional financing
   of US$ 3.75 million, actual US$ 37.28 million): This component was to finance governance and public
   management reforms in order to improve the government’s efficiency, transparency, effectiveness, and quality of
   services. Additional financing was to finance the scaling up and rolling out the Lanka Government Network (LGN)
   Phase 3, Lanka Gate and e-services.

   Component 6: E-Society Program (US$ 4 million, actual US$ 2.94 million): This component was to finance the
   promotion of affordable access to ICT for the most vulnerable population in Sri Lanka by scaling up successful
   initiatives and funding pilot projects.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs: The project was estimated to cost US$ 83.00 million. Actual cost was US$ 85.82 million.

   Financing: According to the PAD (p. 90) and the Project Paper the project was supposed to be financed as
   follows:

        A US$ 53 million IDA credit which was completely disbursed.
        A Japanese Trust Fund of US$ 914,660 was approved by the Bank of which US$ 416,753 was cancelled.
        Borrower Contribution: At appraisal, the estimate for the Borrower’s and Donors’ contribution was US$ 30
         million. Actual contribution was US$ 29.50 million.
        Additional financing of US$ 11 million was approved by the Bank of which US$ 10.4 million was disbursed.

   Dates: The project was restructured six times:

        US$ 5.72 million was transferred towards the Tsunami Rehabilitation Relief.
        On March 2, 2009 amendments to Part A, C, and E of Schedule 2 were made. Also sections 3.04 and 3.05 C
         were amended to reflect the changing governance and operating environment and funds were reallocated
         between components.
        On April 26, 2011 the RTN component was dropped and US$ 8.7 million were cancelled. SDR 1.6 million
         was reallocated among remaining components. The ICR does not state the US$ amount of the reallocated
         fund.
        On January 31, 2012 additional financing of US$ 11 million was approved by the Bank to support the
         implementation of expanded activities.
        The closing date was extended twice: From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2011 and to December 31,
         2013.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The government had identified ICT as one of the instruments to achieve equity, economic growth,
   and peace by transforming key sectors of the economy technologically and institutionally. The Bank’s Country
   Assistance Strategy (FY 2003-2006) built on Sri Lanka’s six core areas of its poverty reduction strategy including
   creating opportunities for pro-poor growth, investing in people, empowering the poor and strengthening
   governance. The objectives of this project to generate growth, employment, equity, and improve competitiveness
   of industries are in line with the Bank's strategy and the government's poverty reduction strategy. Also the
   current Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2013-2016) focuses on shifting the structure of the economy to
   be more knowledge based and includes technical assistance activities to increase the size of the ICT work force.




b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The planned activities to achieve the PDO were modestly relevant. Activities to improve access and use
   of means of information and communication included establishing, telecenters, adopting laws to create a
   favorable environment for ICT and connecting government organizations to the Lanka Government Network.
   Activities to improve the access and use of public services online by businesses and citizens included
   implementing e-government policies such as digitalizing birth, death and marriage certificates, and developing
   government operational portals or websites. Activities to enhance competitiveness of private sector and in
   particular of knowledge industry and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) included trainings to strengthen
   IT skills and promoting Sri Lanka as a destination for IT experts.

   The project lacked a strong results chain, making it difficult to establish the link between the interventions, the
   outputs and intermediate outcomes, and the expected results. In particular, with the economy in Sri Lanka
   growing above 6% per year between 2004 and 2013 and the widespread availability of technology in the world, it
   becomes difficult to assert and to ascertain that the growth in usage of IT and the creation of ICT jobs result from
   the project. Also, the link between enhanced competitiveness and the increase in business usage as measured
   by the network readiness index was not clearly established.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The PDO was "to enhance growth, and equity through i) access to and use of means of information and
   communication; ii) access to and use of public services online by businesses and citizens, iii) enhancing
   competitiveness of private sector and in particular of knowledge industry and SMEs.”

   1. Improve access and use of means of information and communication : Substantial

   Outputs:

        740 telecenters were established in underserved areas and all are functional, surpassing the revised target
         of 240 telecenters (of which 70% will be fully operational and 25% financially sustainable) and the original
         target of 200 telecenters (of which 85% will be fully operational and 37.5% financially sustainable).
         However, the ICR notes (p. v) that it is too early to assess their financial sustainability.
        Over 550 central and provincial governments were connected through the Lanka Government Network. This
         indicator was added when additional financing was approved.
        Three major e-laws on electronic transactions, computer crimes and financial regulation were adapted.

   Outcomes:

        About 44,000 persons used telecenters in targeted communities, exceeding the original target of 33,000 and
     the revised target of 40,000.
    40.5% of telecenter users were women, meeting the original target of 40%. 54.3% of users were youth, not
     achieving the original target of 70%. These targets were not modified when additional financing was
     approved.
    User satisfaction with applications established under the e-society grant mechanism reached 71%, meeting
     the target of 70%. The e-society program aims to promote the innovative use of ICT to meet the economic
     and social needs of the most vulnerable groups in Sri Lanka by providing civil society with affordable access
     to information and communication. These indicators were added when additional financing was approved.

2. Improve access to and use of public services online by businesses and citizens : Substantial

Outputs:

    70% of government organizations comply with e-government policy, surpassing the target of 50%. This
     indicator was added when additional financing was approved
    495 government agencies had a functioning operational portal or website, surpassing the original target of
     100 and the revised target of 380.
    25 additional e-services such as e-Pension, e-Population digitalization of birth, marriages, death certificates,
     e-Revenue licenses for citizens, private and public sectors were created, surpassing the original target of 20
     e-services and the revised target of 20 additional e-services.
    89 divisional secretariats implemented civil registry e-government application, not achieving the target of
     200. This indicator was added when additional financing was approved
    A dedicated government cloud, an interoperability framework (standards to share secure data sharing), and
     local language initiatives to enable trilingual websites and databases were implemented.
    Government's response time to citizens using its services decreased by 29% surpassing the target of 20%.
     88% of citizens were highly satisfied and satisfied with government services, surpassing the target of 70%.
     This indicator was added when additional financing was approved.

Outcomes:

    Over 11 million people conducted transactions with the central government online, surpassing the revised
     and original targets of 7.5 and 5 million targeted beneficiaries; whether this increase can be attributed to the
     project is another matter, since the economy was growing slightly above 6% between 2004 and 2013 and
     ICT became more readily available over the world and in Sri Lanka, not necessarily as a result of the project.
     The outcome for this objective is aggregated and it is not clear how many businesses and how many
     citizens benefited from improved access and use of online public services.
    However, the nature of the outputs provide indications of progress towards achieving outcomes. Also, the
     foundational investments in ICT suggest contributions to the achievement of this objective.


3. Enhancing competitiveness of private sector and in particular of knowledge industry and SMEs : Modest

Outputs:

    In order to increase competitiveness, over 1,053 people were trained under the IT-Enabled Services Skills
     Certification Program, surpassing the target of 1,000 people. 35,000 ICT/Business Process Outsource were
     trained by ICTA. Also 55 people were trained under the Trainer Program, exceeding the target of 50 people.
    Several programs were conducted to promote Sri Lanka as a destination for IT experts.
    ICTA built partnerships with international and local businesses and strengthened ICT associations.

Outcomes:

    Improved competitiveness was measured through the Network Readiness Index that comes from the World
     Economic Forum. The index assesses how prepared a country is to apply the benefits of ICT to promote
     economic growth and well-being; of the three categories that make the index, the business-usage subindex
     was selected as the results indicator for this objective. The WEF’s Global Information Technology Review for
     2014 gives a value of 3.8 for the index of business usage, lower than the value of 4.0 claimed in the ICR and
     lower than the target value of 4.7.
    The number of jobs created in ICT industry reached about 75,000, exceeding its target value of 60,000. This
     increase in employment could not be directly attributed to the project since Sri Lanka’s economy had been
     growing during the time of project implementation. The ICR does not comment whether the Bank conduct an
     impact assessment/impact evaluation to establish attribution.
5. Efficiency:

    Modest: At appraisal it was expected, given the experience in other countries, that the strengthening of ICT will
    have a strong impact on the competitiveness and economic growth of Sri Lanka. For example, the Bank
    estimated, based on the experience of other countries that reengineering government programs such as
    procurement could save US$ 34 to 64 million between 2005 and 2008 (PAD p. 91). Also, the Bank expected that
    the establishment of telecenters will have a positive economic outcome. Nevertheless, the Bank calculated that
    telecenters will have a rate of return of 6% over a five year period (PAD p. 95).
    The ICR does not provide any evidence that the estimations provided in the PAD materialized. Also, while the
    section on Efficiency in the ICR provides a large amount of information of the impact and the effectiveness of the
    project, it does not provide any information related to efficiency such as economic rate of return or cost-
    effectiveness.

    Also, significant delays in project implementation due to serious problems with procurement and financial
    management indicate inefficiencies in the use of resources (see section 9b). Taken all these shortcomings into
    account, the overall efficiency is rated Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                                                                 %                                     %

    ICR estimate                                                              %                                     %
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of objective was Substantial since the government of Sri Lanka identified ICT as one of the
    instruments to achieve growth, peace, and equity. Relevance of design was Modest due to the weak linkage
    between project outputs, intended outcomes and project objectives. Achievement of the objective to improve
    access and use of means of information and communication is rated Substantial, achievement of the objective to
    improve access to and use of public services online by businesses and citizens is rated Substantial, achievement
    of the objective to Enhancing competitiveness of private sector and in particular of knowledge industry and SMEs
    is rated Modest. Efficiency is rated Modest due to delays in project implementation that were indicative of
    inefficiencies in the use of the project's resources. Therefore, the project's outcome rating is Moderately
    Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The risk to development outcome is negligible to low due to the government's ongoing commitment to ICT.
    Despite changes of government, the new government has continued its budget support for ICTA's operation and
    expressed interest in future Bank involvement in this area. ICT continues to be an instrument for Sri Lanka's aim
    to shift the structure of the economy to be more knowledge based. Also, capacity built within ICTA will be
    favorable for supporting this shift.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The Bank team prepared a project that was responsive to the government’s request and took into account the
   experience gained in other countries.

   The project design had shortcomings such as the causal relationships between these planned interventions
   and underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were not logical
   and properly laid out.

   The Bank did not take the complexity of the Regional Telecommunications Network Development Program
   Component into account, resulting in its cancellation. Even though the Bank identified several risks, mitigation
   efforts were not sufficient. Among those risks was ICT Agency's (ICTA) weak capacity in financial
   management and procurement, and lack of experience in the implementation of Bank projects. Despite this
   ICTA was responsible for conducting complex financial management procedures. It took over two years to
   develop a financial management system and for staff to become familiar with processes agreed to in the
   financial agreement. Also, the Bank overestimated the capacity of the private sector to provide certain
   services and neglected building capacity in ICTA. This led to delays in project implementation and to a
   significant increase in project expenditures.

   The M&E design had several shortcomings (see section 10a).



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team was responsive to the government's requests, involved ICT experts to provide high quality
   technical input and showed flexibility in the use of project funds.

   The Bank's supervision had several shortcomings. Under the first IDA loan, the government did not sign with
   ICTA the Subsidiary Grant Agreement which was a requirement in the Financing Agreement. The Bank did
   not take the necessary action to correct this.
   Also, the Bank did not communicate to ICTA that once the Financing Agreement was signed, the Bank’s
   procurement rules needed to be followed. Not knowing that obligation, ICTA followed its own rules to recruit,
   compensate, and allocate costs. Furthermore, weak procurement capacity at ICTA was not appropriately
   addressed by the Bank all throughout implementation.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government was committed to the project and made the necessary policy changes to enable the
   development of the ICT sector. The Government supported the establishment of ICTA as an independent
   agency. However, when the implementation of the project started, ICTA was not ready and lacked capacity,
   especially in financial management, procurement and M&E.

   The Government did not consult with the telecom regulator and did not take sufficient actions to get the buy in
   from different stakeholders such as the telecom operators in the Rural Telecommunication Network Program.
   This contributed to the cancellation of this component since no contract for the provision of cable connectivity
   could be awarded. The Government breached a legal requirement with the Bank when it did not sign the
   Subsidiary Grant Agreement with ICTA. According to the Bank team, the failure to sign the Subsidiary Grant
   Agreement (SGA) did not have a negative impact on project implementation. For the additional financing, the
   Subsidiary Grant Agreement was only signed towards the end of the project in September 2013.

   The Government demonstrated its ongoing commitment by providing budget funds to support ICTA’s
   operation also after the end of the project.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project was implemented by ICTA, a government agency established to lead Information and
   Communication Technology reforms and implement this project. ICTA was committed to the implementation
   of the project and supported the government in strengthening the policy framework for the sector.

   ICTA faced several challenges during project implementation. One of the major challenges was that ICTA
   had no experience in implementing Bank projects and lacked knowledge of financial management and
   procurement capacity. ICTA also experienced a high turnover of staff, leading to delays in project
   implementation.

   Another challenge was, as mentioned in section 8b, that ICTA followed its own recruitment, compensation
   and allocation of costs procedures. ICTA faced multiple reporting obligations which led to an administrative
   burden in an agency with already limited capacity.

   The M&E on project progress was conducted by an external firm while ICTA built capacity internally to
   continue M&E activities. According to the Bank team, once the M&E system was established, ICTA took over
   and developed a comprehensive results based framework and M&E plan. ICTA developed project specific
   indicators and log frames which helped project managers to understand the scope, objectives, measurement
   criteria, data collection methodologies and frequencies.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E design had the following weaknesses: The PDO consisted of broad objectives such as enhancing
   growth, employment, and equity whose achievement was difficult to attain with this project. The indicators
   included in the Results Framework in the PAD (p. 35) were inadequate to measure results and achievement of
   the objectives. The Results Framework included five PDO indicators and 17 intermediate outcome indicators.
   Three of the five PDO indicators focused on employment in the ICT industry, equity of access to and quality of
   ICT services are positively correlated to economic growth making it difficult to separate the effects of the project
   from those of growth. The other two PDO indicators, in turn, measured growth and usage of ICT services, which
   could either be seen as a contribution to or a result of economic growth.

   The M&E design entailed that M&E implementation would be outsourced to a private sector firm to increase
   economies of scale and ensure consistency and compatibility across all program areas. Within ICTA a unit was
   established to oversee all M&E activities. Also, external evaluation experts were hired to conduct a mid-term,
   project completion and ex-post impact evaluation.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The M&E unit set up within ICTA was headed by a M&E specialist and capacity was built within this unit during
   implementation. After the contract with the firm responsible for tracking project data ended, the M&E unit within
   ICTA took over. The ICR (p.21) states that delays in project implementation led to weaknesses in M&E.

   M&E activities included collecting project data on a monthly basis, carrying out five evaluation surveys to collect
   baseline data, and conducting four final evaluations which focused on the achievement of development outcomes
   and impacts. However, the baseline data was collected in 2007, two years after project effectiveness. Also, the
    ICR does not provide any information if the ex-post impact evaluation was conducted.

    In 2012, during the additional financing phase, eight intermediate outcome indicators were added since activities
    were scaled up, training coverage was expanded, and progress on policy changes and communication approach
    was started to be measured. Three of the original intermediate outcome indicators were dropped since they were
    related to the cancelled Regional Telecommunications Network Development Program.

    According to the ICR (p. 9) capacity for M&E was also built among partners and stakeholders, which had a
    positive impact on the ownership of M&E.


c. M&E Utilization:

    Findings of the evaluations were used to make adaptations in several areas (e.g. training methods and content,
    and support to e-society programs). However, the findings mainly measured outputs as opposed to outcomes.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was rated category C. According to the ICR no safeguards were triggered under this project.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management :

    According to the ICR (p.10) the project experienced difficulties in its financial management at different times
    during implementation. ICTA did not have sufficient capacity to perform complex financial management and
    experienced a high staff turnover. It took ICTA more than two years to put in place an acceptable financial
    management system and become familiar with procedures as stated in the financing agreement. By the time the
    mid-term review was conducted, financial management had improved and was rated Satisfactory. Interim
    unaudited financial reports were submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis.

    The ICR (p. 10) states that no major system and control issues were found during audits and the audits received
    unqualified opinions of the audited financial statements. The Bank team stated that the adequacy of reporting
    and accounting provisions was satisfactory.

    Procurement:

    According to the ICR (p.10) the project experienced difficulties in its procurement part due to ICTA’s weak
    capacity to conduct complex procurement procedures. ICTA did not comply with the Bank’s procurement
    guidelines as agreed in the financing agreement. Instead, as already mentioned in section 8b, ICTA followed its
    own recruitment, compensation and allocation of costs procedures. According to the ICR (p.10), the Bank team
    and management did not take any timely actions to address this issue.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately            Relevance of Objectives was
                                                            Satisfactory          Substantial and Relevance of Design
                                                                                  was Modest. Two of the objectives
                                                                                  were substantially achieved and one
                                                                                  objective was modestly achieved.
                                                                                  Efficiency was rated Modest.

          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory        Lack of clearly defined results chain.
                              Unsatisfactory                                      Bank did not address issues related to
                                                                                  ICTA including weak procurement
                                                                                  capacity.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (p. 21) identifies several lessons, including:

1. If the PDO of the project is too broad, not fully coherent with the scope of the project, and indicators
   inadequate, it becomes difficult to establish links between results and interventions and attribute results to the
   project. In this case the PDO included enhancing growth, employment and equity in Sri Lanka which
   presented a challenge of attribution of project results to these economy-wide ultimate objectives.
2. Involving third parties, which are needed for a successful project implementation, already during the design
   phase of the project will allow to assess their ability and willingness to contribute to the project. In this project,
   the unwillingness of third parties to contribute to the project led to the cancellation of the Regional
   Telecommunication Network Component and the inability to outsource ICTA services to the private sector.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

    The ICR provides a large amount of information and is candid in its assessment and appropriately critical.
    It provides an insightful discussion of implementation issues and useful lessons learned. There are different PDO
    formulations between the PAD, the Financing Agreement and the Additional Financing and it would have been
    useful if the ICR reconciled the different PDO formulations and established the appropriate PDO to assess.
    Despite its length the ICR fell short on providing more details in the financial management and procurement
    section since those areas were the most challenging during project implementation. Its discussion of the project
    outcomes fails to separate achievements by project objectives, barely touches on the achievements associated
    with the results indicators, covers results not associated with the results framework and fails to explain why
    looking at that new set of results is relevant. The ICR's efficiency section is weak. It does not provide a good
    analysis, or evidence to inform whether the expected benefits at project appraisal actually materialized. The ICR
    does not comment on why actual costs exceeded appraisal costs and its information on project costs and
    financing is unclear. Also, the ICR does not provide a methodology for the beneficiary survey results. Therefore,
    it is not clear how representative the results of the beneficiary survey are. Due to all these shortcomings, the ICR
    is rated Unsatisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
