                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                            APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                         July 24, 2013
                                                                  Report No.: AB7359

Operation Name              CO: Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote Shared
                            Prosperity Development Policy Loan (DPL)
Region                      Latin America and the Caribbean
Country                     Colombia
Sector                      Central government administration (40%); Public
                            administration- Financial Sector (40%); Sub-national
                            government administration (20%)
Operation ID                P145605
Lending Instrument          Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                 Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency         Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP)
Date PID Prepared           July 22, 2013
Estimated Date of Appraisal July 25, 2013
Estimated Date of Board September 6, 2013
Approval
Corporate Review Decision   Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                            proceed with the preparation of the operation.

     Country and Sector Background
     Despite strong macroeconomic performance, significant reductions in poverty and
     improvements in social indicators over the past decade, the level of income inequality in
     Colombia remains high. Between 2002 and 2012, moderate poverty based on monthly
     income fell from 49.7 to 32.7 percent, while extreme poverty declined from 17.7 to 10.4
     percent. While this progress is a positive development, the rate of poverty reduction in
     Colombia, given its economic performance, falls below that of its regional peers, as it
     remains constrained by high inequality and relatively unresponsive to growth, compared
     to Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. Colombia’s unequal distribution of income is reflected
     by a Gini coefficient that is higher than the Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) regional
     average and among the 10 highest in the world.

     In response, the Government of Colombia (GoC) has made inequality reduction a top
     priority turning its attention towards understanding how reforms, policies and institutions
     affect social outcomes, and in particular, equity. This emphasis is reflected in the
     strategies and goals of the GoC National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de
     Desarrollo, PND) “Prosperity for All 2010-2014? (Prosperidad para Todos 2010-2014).
     The three pillar objectives of the Plan are: (i) Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness,
     (ii) Equality of Opportunities for Social Prosperity, and, (iii) Consolidation of Peace.

     Over the last two years, social indicators have improved, including reductions in income
     inequality, income poverty and the official measure of multidimensional poverty.
     Between 2010 and 2011, the average income of the bottom 40 percent of the income
distribution grew at a faster rate than the mean growth rate (8.1 versus 3.3 percent). This
resulted in a reduction of income poverty but also led to a turning point for income
inequality, which started to decrease (from 0.56 to 0.54 between those years). Over the
same period of time, 2010 to 2012, the official multidimensional poverty measure (which
includes fifteen dimensions related to education, health, employment and assets) dropped
by 3.4 points (from 30.4 to 27.0 in 2012).

Operation Objectives
The objective is to support the Government of Colombia in improving fiscal, territorial,
and gender equity through specific actions in targeted policy areas, while enhancing
access to information and accountability in public spending. This is consistent with the
three pillars of the GoC’s National Development Plan “Prosperity for All 2010-2014?: (i)
Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness, (ii) Equality of Opportunities for Social
Prosperity, and (iii) Consolidation of Peace. It is aligned with the World Bank’s Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY12-16 strategic theme 3: Inclusive Growth and Enhanced
Productivity, by contributing to the long-term outcome of “Improved Public Sector
Management and Equity and Efficiency of Economic Policies.?

The proposed operation recognizes and supports reforms that aim to reinforce the recent
gains in reducing income inequality and to improve overall equity in several key
dimensions. The set of reforms included in this operation will lead to important
improvements in equity in the following dimensions: i. Horizontal equity in the tax
structure, ii. Regional equity though the reform of the royalties (regalias) system, iii.
Equity from a life-cycle perspective by instrumenting policies to reduce poverty among
the elderly, iv. Enhanced transparency, quality of information and accountability in the
execution of the public budget, v. Enhanced public reporting and transparency of poverty
and other social indicators, and vi. Gender equity, by strengthening the framework to
protect women against gender-based violence.

The reform program supported by this single-tranche development policy loan (DPL) is
built around six policy areas that seek to enhance fiscal capacity towards shared
prosperity in Colombia. These are: i. More equitable tax policy and administration; ii.
Inter-regional equity and subnational government’s management; iii. Equity in social
spending; iv. Equitable access to information and enhanced budgetary and financial
management; v. Monitoring of poverty and other social indicators; and vi. Gender equity.

The prior actions supporting Policy Area I: More equitable tax policy and administration
include: Prior Action 1: The GoC has improved the progressivity of the tax system by: (i)
establishing an alternative income tax (IMAN); (ii) introducing a luxury tax; and (iii)
simplifying the value-added tax, as evidenced by the Law No. 1607 of December 26,
2012, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 26, 2012, and;
Prior Action 2: The GoC has reduced the cost of formal employment creation by: (i)
reducing firms’ payroll contribution for employees with salaries below 10 minimum
monthly wages; and, (ii) creating a new tax on corporate profits as evidenced by the Law
No. 1607 of December 26, 2012, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
December 26, 2012.
The prior action supporting Policy Area II: Inter-regional equity and Subnational
Government’s (SNG) management is Prior Action 3: The GoC has redesigned the
General System of Royalties by mandating that all regional investment projects are
approved and supervised by the Órganos Colegiados de Administracion y Decision
(OCAD) which are comprised of representatives from the national and sub-national
governments, as evidenced by: (i) the issuance of Law No. 1530 of May 17, 2012, duly
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 17, 2012; (ii) the issuance of Decree
No. 1075 of May 22, 2012, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 22,
2012; and (iii) the issuance of Decree No. 1949 of September 19, 2012, duly published in
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on September 19, 2012.

The prior action supporting Policy Area III: Equity in social spending is Prior Action 4:
The Borrower has: (i) issued new rules for the operation of a targeted economic subsidy
to senior citizens (Programa de Protección al Adulto Mayor,? renamed “Colombia
Mayor?); (ii) increased the budget for expanding the coverage; and (iii) reinforced the
targeting of the program towards old-age population under conditions of extreme or
moderate poverty, as evidenced by the Ministry of Labor’s Resolutions: (A) No. 1370 of
May 2, 2013; and (B) No. 2958 of November 23, 2012.

The prior action supporting Policy Area IV: Equitable access to national financial
management information systems is Prior Action 5: The GoC has implemented measures
for the operation of the Integrated System of Financial Public Management (SIIF Nacion -
Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera) to enhance transparency and accountability
in the execution of the public budget, as evidenced by: (i) the Borrower’s Decree No.
2674 of December 21, 2012, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
December 21, 2012; and (ii) the Ministry of Finance’s Act. No. 16 of February 26, 2013.

The prior action supporting Policy Area V: Monitoring Of Poverty and Other Social
Indicators is Prior Action 6: The GoC has issued an updated national official
methodology for the measurement of poverty, and has created institutional arrangements
for improving the quality, transparency and replicability of poverty and other social
indicators, as evidenced by: (i) the publication of Document CONPES Social No. 150 of
May 28, 2012; and (ii) the establishment of: (A) the Executive Committee for the
Measurement of Monetary Poverty; and (B) the Executive Committee for the
Measurement of Multidimensional Poverty, through DANE’s Resolutions No. 871 and
877, respectively, of August 24, 2012.

Finally, the last prior action supporting Policy Area VI: Gender equity is Prior Action 7:
The GoC has mandated the provision of specific measures to protect women who are
victims of gender violence, and strengthened the implementation of the National Policy
to Reduce Gender-Based Violence (GBV), as evidenced by: (i) the Borrower’s Decree
No. 2734 of December 27, 2012, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
December 28, 2012; and (ii) the Ministry of Health’s Resolution No. 459 of March 6,
2012.
Rationale for World Bank Involvement

The proposed DPL is aligned with The World Bank’s Colombia Country Partnership
Strategy FY-12-16 strategic theme 3: Inclusive Growth and Enhanced Productivity by
contributing to the long-term outcome of “Improved Public Sector Management and
Equity and Efficiency of Economic Policies.? Furthermore, the proposed DPL
complements the World Bank’s commitment to a long-term engagement with the
Government of Colombia in the area of fiscal and public sector management and is part
of a strategic, programmatic and multi-sectoral engagement which includes lending
operations, knowledge products and technical assistance across each policy area of the
DPL.

The depth of the World Bank’s partnership with the Government of Colombia on fiscal
and public sector management is substantial and has used different World Bank
instruments as complementary tools in this endeavor. The tax reform formulation and
discussions were support by a series of tax studies carried out under the Fiscal and
Growth Programmatic Knowledge Services (P124256). The Colombia Subnational
Institutional Strengthening investment loan (P123879), currently under preparation for
$70 million, supports increased public service delivery at the subnational level in the
areas of: (a) tax administration, (b) public expenditure (budget planning and execution,
accounting, payments), (c) procurement, (d) human resources, (e) monitoring and
evaluation, and (f) transparency and social participation. The proposed DPL complements
this investment loan by supporting complementary policy reforms in policy areas II and
IV of the DPL, with regard to strengthening subnational performance in core public
management areas and utilization of the national financial management system, Sistema
Integrado de Información Financiera, or SIIF (Consolidation of Public Management
Information Systems, P106628). Furthermore, since July 2011 a programmatic series of
DPLs supporting Colombia fiscal reforms totaling $500 million has been approved. The
proposed DPL builds off of the aforementioned programmatic series in the tax reforms
supported in policy area I.

Tentative financing

Source:                                                             ($m.)
Borrower                                                             0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development               600
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                            Total   600

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) is the responsible implementing
agency and will coordinate with the National Planning Department (DNP) in the area of
monitoring and evaluation. The Department for Public Credit within the MHCP will
collect the necessary data to assess the implementation progress for which the MHCP is
responsible and report it to the World Bank. Similarly, the Directorate of Evaluation of
Public Policies within the DNP, responsible of the National Evaluation System of
Management and Results (SINERGIA) will collect and report to the World Bank the
information related to the implementation progress of royalties, Colombia Mayor, SIIF
and gender indicators. Finally, the National Bureau of Statistics (DANE) will be
responsible of the annual online release of household survey mico-data for replicating
poverty and other social indicators. The World Bank will monitor the selected actions and
review progress of the proposed operation as well as subsequent actions of the
Government’s program through semiannual implementation status and results reports.

Risks and Risk Mitigation

This DPL is subject to economic risks, political and social risks and implementation
risks. The economic risks are related to a deteriorating external economic environment.
Despite solid fundamentals, Colombia’s near-term macroeconomic outlook could be
adversely affected in the event of external shocks. This risk is mitigated by a high policy
response capacity. The political and social risks are related to recent labor unrest in
several sectors and increasing political opposition from groups associated to the previous
administration. These have had negative impacts on the approval ratings of the president.
However, overall political risk in the country remains low, partially helped by the
Government’s stout Congressional majority. This strong presence is expected to ensure
policy continuity, and contribute towards the approval of the upcoming healthcare and
pension reforms. Implementation risks due to delays in policy reforms are mitigated by
the choice of a single tranche DPL operation, which recognizes and supports the ongoing
reforms, while mitigating the risk of a programmatic approach under the current political
calendar in the country, where the upcoming electoral cycle will make immediate further
reforms unlikely. Furthermore, the operation was designed to exclusively support
administrative measures which do not depend on legislative processes.

Taking into account the risk presented and discussed above, along with the associated
mitigation measures, the overall risk of this operation is low. On balance, the potential
risks of the operation are offset by the expected benefits.

Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The Government policies supported in this DPL are expected to have a positive poverty
and social impact. The present Poverty and Social Impact Assessment is being carried
out, documenting these expected positive impacts from a gender-sensitive, social and
distributional perspective. The assessment is meant to provide a robust analysis of the
positive outcomes on equity of these policy actions. The PSIA thus is structured to follow
the policy areas outlined under the Proposed Operation. There are reasons to expect a
positive impact from each supported reform, as summarized below.

Within Policy Area I, the implementation of IMAN and the reforms to the VAT structure
which reduce administrative and compliance costs and introduce a new luxury tax are
expected to contribute to greater equity. A specific study is being conducted as part of
this PSIA, using data from the 2011 tax records and the 2011 GEIH household survey to
assess the distributional impact of the IMAN; and the 2010 EVC survey on living
conditions, to assess the joint impact of the IMAN and VAT reforms. Preliminary results
show that with the changes regarding IMAN, the Gini coefficient of market income of a
distribution that include top earners will decline in almost one percentage point (from
0.586 to 0.579), while fiscal collection will stay the same. This reduction of the Gini is
not trivial, considering, for example, the average yearly reduction of the Gini in Latin
American countries (1.2 percent annually) over the last 10 years (Lustig et al. 2012).
Following a different methodology, which does not include incomes of top-earners—the
Commitment to Equity Assessment (CEQ)—the results also indicate that the tax reforms
will have a positive impact on decreasing income inequality, as well as on poverty
reduction. The Gini coefficient would decrease from 0.535 to 0.534, while moderate
poverty is estimated to drop from 33.4 to 33 percent, and extreme poverty from 18.2 to
17.7 percent. This methodology –given that it does not contemplate top earners, is likely
to underestimate the effect of the reforms, which is why the change found in the Gini is
lower.

In terms of Policy Area II, the policy actions regarding Subnational Governments
Management are expected to have a positive impact on regional equity. While the previous
royalties system has been found to be a factor of divergence among Departamentos in
Colombia from 2000 to 2011, the new royalties system is expected to become a factor of
regional convergence in the 2012-2016 period, by accelerating the catch-up effect
between poor and rich Departamentos. A study, conducted as part of this PSIA, estimates
the potential regional development patterns given the recent changes in the formula of
distribution of the royalties system. Preliminary results from the assessment suggest that,
in the post-reform scenario, regional inequality would indeed decline; while the speed of
convergence (in terms of economic growth) from the poorer regions with respect to the
national average, would increase.

The actions of Policy Area III, towards enhancing equity in social spending with a focus
on the elderly, are found to have a positive impact on poverty reduction and inequality.
The analysis performed uses a micro-simulation exercise to study the potential impacts
on poverty and inequality of the expansion in coverage of Colombia Mayor for the years
2013 and 2014. Based on the ECV 2011, the study creates estimations for employment,
earnings, and the income distribution for the years of interest, and uses these as a
benchmark to estimate the changes in poverty and inequality that result from simulated
expansions to the program. Preliminary results show a reduction in poverty incidence for
the population group of 65 years of age and older, which could be attributed to the
adequate targeting of the subsidy using proxy-mean tests. The results also suggest a small
decline of the Gini Coefficient at the national, rural and cabeceras levels, under all
simulated expansions.

Regarding Policy Area VI, the legislative measures aimed at increasing gender equality
are expected to contribute to reduce the incidence of gender based violence. In order to
better understand the impact of the implementation of the policy that mandates the
provision of temporary housing, feeding and transportation for treatment of women
victims of violence and/or her children, qualitative work is planned. In particular, the
objective of the analysis will be to identify which strategies in implementation have
proven successful so far and where there might be potential bottlenecks to be addressed.
The analysis will be based on in-depth interviews to recipients of these services from
various socio-economic groups in selected regions as well as to service providers and
those from the implementation agencies (health sector staff, Comisarias de Familia, and
others). Evidence from a similar study in Brazil suggests that measures directly aimed at
domestic violence are more effective in settings where economic opportunities are greater
and social norms are less stringent.

The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment,
forests, and other natural resources. As this operation focuses on tax reform, transfers to
Subnational Governments, improvement in coverage and transparency of social spending
and financial management and gender equity, it is not expected to have any impact on the
environment. However, to the extent that actions supported by the loan program are
successful, over time, in attracting new private investment, there will be need to continue
strengthening Colombia’s institutional capacity to identify and address environmental
policy and regulatory issues.

Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Luis-Felipe Lopez-Calva
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: (202) 473-4123
Fax: Fax: +1 (202) 522-0054
Email: lflopezcalva@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Luis Fernando Mejia
Title: General Director of Macroeconomic Policy
Tel: +57 (1) 381-1700 ext. 2194
Email: lmejia@minhacienda.gov.co

For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
