                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR3448



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-82870)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                       FOR A

       ENHANCING FISCAL CAPACITY TO PROMOTE SHARED PROSPERITY
                      DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                 OCTOBER 14, 2015




Poverty and Equity Global Practice
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 3, 2015)
                    Currency Unit =     CO$
                        CO$ 1.00 =      US$ 0.00039
                        US$ 1.00 =      CO$ 2,574.09

                   BRAZIL - Government Fiscal Year
                     January 1   –   December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CO$      Colombian Peso
CONPES   National Council for Economic and Social Policy
         (Consejo Nacional de Politica Económica y Social)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CREE     Income Tax for Equity
         (Impuesto sobre la Renta para la Equidad)
DANE     National Statistics Bureau
         (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística)
DIAN     Tax and Customs Directorate
         (Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales)
DNP      National Planning Ministry
         (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
DPL      Development Policy Loan
FY       Fiscal Year
FOSIGA   Solidarity Guarantee Fund
         (Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantía)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoC      Government of Colombia
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMAN     Alternative Income Tax
         (Impuesto Mínimo Alternativo Nacional)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
LA       Loan Agreement
LAC      Latin America and Caribbean countries
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MHCP     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
OCAD     Collegiated Administration Entity
         (Órgano Colegiado de Administración)
PD       Program Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PND      National Development Plan
         (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PSIA     Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
PSF      Pension Sustainability Fund
SGR      General System of Royalties
         (Sistema General de Regalías)
SIIF            Integrated System of Financial Administration
                (Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera)
SINERGIA        National Results Evaluation System
                (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Resultados de la Gestión)
SISBEN          System for Potential Beneficiary Identification
                (Sistema de Identificación de Beneficiarios Potentiales de Programas
                Sociales
USD             United States dollar
VAT             Value-added tax




                           Vice President:        Jorge Familiar Calderón
                         Country Director:        Gerardo M. Corrochano
           Senior Global Practice Director:           Ana L. Revenga
                        Practice Manager:          Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez
                       Task Team Leader:         Carlos Rodríguez Castelán
                       ICR Team Leader:          Carlos Rodríguez Castelán
                                                             COLOMBIA

      ENHANCING FISCAL CAPACITY TO PROMOTE SHARED PROSPERITY
                     DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                                             CONTENTS




  Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................................... 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................................ 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................................ 24
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................................... 25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................... 26
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 27
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................................ 29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 31
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 35
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................... 36

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                   CO: Enhancing Fiscal
Country:               Colombia             Program Name:          Capacity to Promote
                                                                   Shared Prosperity DPL
Program ID:            P145605              L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-82870
ICR Date:              05/12/2015           ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                  Borrower:
                                                                   COLOMBIA
Original Total
                     USD 600.00M           Disbursed Amount:    USD 600.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Not Applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                        Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/10/2013   Effectiveness:                        09/09/2013
Appraisal:             07/25/2013   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/06/2013   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:             12/31/2014           12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                        Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings              Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:                     Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                      Rating:
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Program at any time              No                                           None
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                    Quality of
                                 No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:



                                            i
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 36                     36
Other social services                                             43                     43
Sub-national government administration                            21                     21

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                             14                    14
Income Support for Old Age, Disability & Survivorship              15                    15
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                          14                    14
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                   14                    14
procurement
Tax policy and administration                                      43                    43

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:                Jorge Familiar Calderón              Hasan A. Tuluy 
Country Director:                Gerardo Corrochano                Gloria M. Grandolini
Practice
                                Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez                    Louise J. Cord
Manager/Manager:
                                                              Luis-Felipe López Calva, TTL
                                                              Carlos Rodríguez-Castelán, Co-
Program Team Leader:         Carlos Rodríguez Castelán
                                                                           TTL
                                                                   Pedro Arizti, Co-TTL
ICR Team Leader:             Carlos Rodríguez Castelán
ICR Primary Author:                Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To support the Government of Colombia in improving fiscal, territorial, and gender equity
through specific actions in targeted policy areas, while enhancing access to information and
accountability in public spending.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original
                                                     Formally
                                           Target             Actual Value Achieved at
                                                      Revised
  Indicator         Baseline Value      Values (from            Completion or Target
                                                      Target
                                          approval                     Years
                                                      Values
                                         documents)
                    Policy Area 1 – More Equitable Tax Administration
               Total direct tax revenues paid by the top 0.4 percent of earners as a
Indicator 1
               percentage of GDP (Percentage).

                                               ii
Value
(quantitative
                           0.23                   0.28                              n.a.
or
qualitative)
                                             December 31,
Date achieved      December 31, 2012                                        December 31, 2014
                                                2014

Comments       Undetermined. Although data on the top 0.4 percent of earners was not available,
(incl. %       the redistributive impact of the tax reform is evident in the increase in the share of
achievement)   income   tax paid by the top ten percent of earners—i.e., from 56.8 to 58.4 percent
               from 2012 to 2013
Indicator 2 Tax revenues from CREE as a percentage of GDP (Percentage)
Value
(quantitative
                            0.00                   .61                              1.59
or
qualitative)
                                             December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                       December 31, 2014
                                                  2014
Comments       Exceeded (260% level of achievement): Revenues from CREE collections
(incl. %       reached US$5.2 billion in 2014—equivalent to 13.4 percent of 2014 domestic tax
achievement) revenues. DIAN’s collection CREE targets for 2014 were exceeded by 11 percent.
       Policy Area 2 – Inter-Regional Equity and Broadening Local Revenue Sources
               Number of projects approved by OCAD and under contract that
Indicator 3
               correspond to the new general system of royalties (Number).
Value
                                                                         2,105 projects completed
(quantitative
                             0                   1,500                     3,118 projects under
or
                                                                                  contract
qualitative)
                                             December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                       December 31, 2014
                                                  2014
Comments       Exceeded (350% level of achievement): Of the 6,770 projects that were approved
(incl. %       by the OCADs by December 31, 2015, 2,105 projects were completed and 3,118
achievement) were under contract.
                           Policy Area 3 – Equity in Social Spending
               Share of eligible beneficiaries receiving the Colombia Mayor program
Indicator 4
               subsidy (Percentage).
Value
(quantitative
                            35.0                  42.0                              60.1
or
qualitative)
                                             December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                       December 31, 2014
                                                  2014
Comments      Exceeded (144% level of achievement): The number of beneficiaries has
(incl. %      increased from 713,660 to 1,456,409 between 2012 and 2014 as a result of a
achievement)  substantial increase in Program funding, more than doubling the coverage of the
              target population.
                                Policy Area 4 – Gender Equity
              Total budget assigned to finance provision of specific measures to protect
Indicator 5 women who are victims of gender violence (defined in Decree No. 2734) as a
              percentage of the national current expenditures (Percentage).
Value
(quantitative             0.00                 0.01                          0.011
or

                                                 iii
qualitative)
                                           December 31,
Date achieved     December 31, 2012                                     December 31, 2014
                                               2014
               Not Achieved: This condition was met sensu stricto, as budgetary allocations were
Comments
               made in 2013 and 2014 amounting to CO$10.96 billion and CO$12.5 billion—i.e.,
(incl. %
               0.011 percent of the 2013 and 2014 national current expenditures. However, funds
achievement)
               were not disbursed due to operational and normative issues.
        Policy Area 5 – Open Access to Financial Management Information Systems
               Percentage of the information related to budget execution with respect to
Indicator 6 the total amount of the national budget that is published in the transparency
               portal on a daily basis (Percentage).
Value
(quantitative
                          85.00               100.00                           100.00
or
qualitative)
                                           December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                   December 31, 2014
                                               2014
Comments       Achieved (100% level of achievement): One hundred percent of the information
(incl. %       on budget execution disaggregated by regions, including procurement, is now
achievement) publicly available at the GoC’s Economic Transparency Portal.
               Percentage of information related to revenue collection with respect to the
Indicator 7 total amount of the national budget that is published in the transparency
               portal on a daily basis (Percentage).
Value
(quantitative              0.00
                                               80.00                           100.00
or
qualitative)
                                           December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                   December 31, 2014
                                               2014
Comments       Exceeded (125% level of achievement): One hundred percent of the information
(incl. %       on revenue collection is now publicly available at the GoC’s Economic
achievement) Transparency Portal.
              Policy Area 6 – Monitoring of Poverty and Other Social Indicators
               Endorsement of annual release of monetary and multidimensional poverty
Indicator 8 indicators and its corresponding micro-data by the Monetary Poverty Expert
               Committee and the Multidimensional Expert Committee (Number).
Value
(quantitative
                            0                    1                                1
or
qualitative)
                                           December 31,
Date achieved       December 31, 2012                                   December 31, 2014
                                               2014
Comments       Achieved (100% level of achievement): Monetary and multidimensional poverty
(incl. %       data for 2013 were validated by the expert committees in March 2014. Likewise,
achievement) poverty data for 2014 was validated in March 2015.




                                               iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                            DO                  IP         Disbursements
        Archived
                                                               (USD millions)
  1    02/23/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory           600.00
  2    10/17/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory           600.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Despite strong macroeconomic performance, significant reductions in poverty, and improvements
in social indicators over the past decade, the level of income inequality in Colombia had remained
high. Between 2002 and 2012, moderate poverty based on monthly income fell from 49.7 to 32.7
percent, while extreme poverty declined from 17.7 to 10.4 percent. In spite of this progress, the
rate of poverty reduction in Colombia remained constrained by high inequality and was relatively
unresponsive to growth, falling below that of regional peers as such Argentina, Brazil, and
Mexico. Colombia's unequal distribution of income was reflected in a Gini coefficient that was
higher than the Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) regional average and among the ten highest
in the world.
In addition, Colombia's overall fiscal system (i.e., tax and transfers) showed a limited
redistributive capacity, even compared to other Latin American and Caribbean (LAC). For
example, although Brazil and Colombia had an almost identical level of inequality in 2012 (0.574
and 0.575, respectively) measured in terms of market income, Brazil's Gini coefficient was
considerably lower once direct and indirect taxes and transfers and subsidies were taken into
account (0.541 and 0.569 for Brazil and Colombia, respectively). This difference became more
striking once cash and in-kind transfers through public spending were considered, with a final
income Gini of 0.438 for Brazil compared to 0.535 for Colombia. These results suggested that the
potential for fiscal redistribution in Colombia remained largely untapped.
In response, the Government of Colombia (GoC) had made reducing inequality a top priority,
turning its attention to understanding how reforms, policies, and institutions affect social
outcomes, particularly equity. This emphasis was reflected in the strategies and goals of the GoC’s
National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo - PND) "Prosperity for All 2010-2014"
(Prosperidad para Todos 2010-2014), which had equality of opportunities for social prosperity
as one of its three objectives.
The Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote Shared Prosperity development policy loan (DPL)
provided support to the reforms that had been undertaken by the GoC to reduce income inequality
and improve overall equity in several key dimensions while maintaining an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The operation’s development objective was “to support the Government of Colombia in
improving fiscal, territorial, and gender equity through specific actions in targeted policy areas,
while enhancing access to information and accountability in public spending.”1

The definition is further expanded in the description of the three levels of reforms described in
the PD (p. 21): “The reforms supported under this DPL focused on three main areas: i) improving
horizontal equity in the tax structure and inter-regional equity through the reform of the royalties


1
  Project Document - PD, pp. 3. The Loan Agreement (LA) does not include a definition of the operation’s
overall PDO. Instead, it focuses on the objectives of the prior actions taken under the Program.
Notably, the three levels of reforms described in the PD (p. 21) provide a better PDO definition that the
explicit definition noted above (p. 3). It reads “The reforms supported under this DPL focused on three
main areas: i) improving horizontal equity in the tax structure and inter-regional equity through the reform
of the royalties system; ii) better targeting of social spending, including life-cycle equity through policies
to reduce poverty among the elderly-and gender equity through the strengthening of the government's
capacity to protect women from gender-based violence; and iii) improvements in cross-cutting policies that
support transparency, quality information, and accountability in the execution of the public budget, as well
as public reporting of poverty and social welfare outcomes (PD, p. 21).
                                                        1
system; ii) better targeting of social spending, including life-cycle equity through policies to
reduce poverty among the elderly and gender equity through the strengthening of the
government's capacity to protect women from gender-based violence; and iii) improvements in
cross-cutting policies that support transparency, quality information, and accountability in the
execution of the public budget, as well as public reporting of poverty and social welfare
outcomes.”

The specific policy areas supported under this DPL were: i) more equitable tax policy and
administration; ii) inter-regional equity and broadening local revenue sources; iii) equity in social
spending; iv) gender equity; v) open access to national financial management information
systems; and vi) monitoring of poverty and other social indicators. 2 Specific development
objectives were defined for each policy area as well as a battery of Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs). Specifically:

     Table 1 – Operation’s Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance
                                      Indicators (KPIs)
                Policy Area 1: More Equitable Tax Policy and Administration
PDO 1 - Improve the progressivity of the tax system and reduce the cost of formal employment
creation.
- KPI 1: Total direct tax revenues paid by the top 0.4 percent of earners as a percentage of GDP
         (Percentage).
- KPI 2: Tax revenues from the Income Tax for Equity (Impuesto sobre la Renta para la
         Equidad – CREE) as a percentage of GDP (Percentage).
       Policy Area 2: Inter-Regional Equity and Broadening Local Revenue Sources
PDO 2 - Strengthen actions to reduce territorial inequities by establishing a more equitable
decision making process for regional investment projects.
- KPI 3: Number of projects approved by Collegiate Administrative Entity (Órgano Colegiado
         de Administración – OCAD) and under contract that correspond to the new general
         system of royalties (Number).
                            Policy Area 3: Equity in Social Spending
PDO 3 - Improve the targeting of expenditures to protect vulnerable groups by improving
targeting of subsidies to old-age population.
- KPI 4: Share of eligible beneficiaries receiving the Colombia Mayor program subsidy
         (Percentage).
                                 Policy Area 4: Gender Equity
PDO 4 - Contribute to the reduction of gender inequities by improving the capacity of the
government to protect women who are victims of gender-based violence.
- KPI 5: Total budget assigned to finance provision of specific measures to protect women who
         are victims of gender violence (defined in Decree No. 2734) as a percentage of the
         national current expenditures (Percentage).
   Policy Area 5: Open Access to National Financial Management Information Systems
PDO 5 - Enhance the transparency and coverage of the national financial management
information systems.
- KPI 6: Percentage of the information related to budget execution with respect to the total
         amount of the national budget that is published in the transparency portal on a daily
         basis (Percentage).
- KPI 7: Percentage of information related to revenue collection with respect to the total amount
         of the national budget that is published in the transparency portal on a daily basis
         (Percentage).
              Policy Area 6: Monitoring of Poverty and Other Social Indicators
PDO 6 - Enhance the transparency, quality of information and governance of the monitoring of
poverty, equity and other social welfare indicators.


2
    The definitions of the six policy areas are derived from the Policy Matrix (PD, Annex 1, pp. 34-35).
                                                         2
- KPI 8: Endorsement of annual release of monetary and multidimensional poverty indicators
         and its corresponding micro-data by the Monetary Poverty Expert Committee and the
         Multidimensional Expert Committee (Number).
For the purpose of the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), the operation is
evaluated against the PDOs corresponding to each of the policy areas and the corresponding KPIs
defined for the individual policy actions within each policy area (see Table 2). Together, the six
policy-level PDOs provide an expanded and more detailed operational definition of the
operation’s overall PDO.

                      Table 2 – Operation’s Overall and Policy-level PDOs
   Operation’s
                                       Correspondence with policy-level PDOs
   Overall PDO
 Improving fiscal       PDO 1 - Improve the progressivity of the tax system and reduce the cost
     equity             of formal employment creation.
                        PDO 2 - Strengthen actions to reduce territorial inequities by
    Improving
                        establishing a more equitable decision making process for regional
 territorial equity
                        investment projects.
                        PDO 4 - Contribute to the reduction of gender inequities by improving
    Improving
                        the capacity of the government to protect women who are victims of
   gender equity
                        gender-based violence.
 Enhancing access       PDO 5 – Enhance the transparency and coverage of the national
   to information       financial management information systems.
         and            PDO 6 - Enhance the transparency, quality of information and
 accountability in      governance of the monitoring of poverty, equity and other social welfare
  public spending       indicators.
        N.A.            PDO 3 - Improve the targeting of expenditures to protect vulnerable
                        groups by improving targeting of subsidies to old-age population.
 Note: The overall PDO is defined on p. 3, while the PDOs at the Policy Area level are
 defined on pp. 34-35.

Reasons/Justification
Not Applicable

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

Policy Area 1: More Equitable Tax Policy and Administration

The operation provided support to a comprehensive tax reform approved by Congress in
December 2012 that was designed to improve equity and efficiency, promote hiring in the formal
sector, and simplify the tax system to promote voluntary compliance. Specifically, Law No. 1607
introduced revenue-neutral reforms to corporate and personal income taxes, payroll taxes, value-
added tax (VAT), and other aspects of the tax system with a two-fold objective of promoting
vertical and horizontal equity across taxpayers, and foster formal labor employment.

Policy Area 2: Inter-Regional Equity and Broadening Local Revenues Sources

The operation provided support to the GoC ‘s reform of the General System of Royalties (Sistema
General de Regalías). The focus of the reform was on providing resources to sub-national
governments (SNGs) while building capacity, strengthening central Government monitoring and
assistance to SNGs, and increasing effective demand for SNG performance at the local level. The

                                                3
reform also mandated that all regional investment projects be approved and supervised by the
OCADs, which are comprised of representatives from the national and subnational governments.

Policy Area 3: Equity in social Spending

The operation provided support to actions taken by the GoC aimed at enhancing equity in social
spending in Colombia by decreasing poverty in old age through improvements in the Colombia
Mayor Program, including the issuing of new operational rules, increasing its coverage and
budget, and improving the targeting of old-age population under conditions of extreme or
moderate poverty.

Policy area 4: Gender Equity

The operation provided support to the measures taken to protect women who are victims of gender
violence, such as provision of meals, transport and temporary housing.

Policy Area 5: Open Access to National Financial Management Information Systems

The operation provided support to the measures implemented by the GoC to strengthen the
operation of the Integrated System of Financial Administration (Sistema Integrado de
Información Financiera -SIIF Nación) to enhance transparency and accountability in the
execution of the public budget, including the incorporation of data related to revenues and budget
execution in the transparency portal (Portal de Transparencia Económica).

Policy Area 6: Monitoring of Poverty and Other Social Indicators

The operation provided support to the GoC’s efforts to update its methodology for the
measurement of poverty through the establishment of institutional arrangements for improving
the quality, transparency and replicability of poverty and other social indicators.


1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not Applicable
1.6 Other significant changes
Not Applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

                                         Expected           Actual
      Tranche #          Amount                                                    Release
                                        Release Date     Release Date
                          US$600         September       September 12,
      Tranche 1                                                                  (1) Regular
                          million           2013             2013


                                    Tranche 1 (Single Tranche)
   Policy conditions as stated in the Loan Agreement                                  Status
   The Borrower has improved the progressivity of its tax system by: (i)
   establishing an alternative income tax; (ii) introducing a luxury tax; and
   (iii) simplifying the value-added tax, as evidenced by the issuance of the          Met
   Borrower's Law No. 1607, dated December 26, 2012, duly published in
   the Borrower's Official Gazette on December 26, 2012.
   The Borrower has reduced the cost of formal employment creation by: (i)             Met

                                                4
reducing firms' payroll contribution for employees with salaries below
ten minimum monthly wages; and (ii) creating a new tax on corporate
profits, as evidenced by the issuance of the Borrower's Law No. 1607,
dated December 26, 2012, duly published in the Borrower's Official
Gazette on December 26, 2012.
The Borrower has redesigned the General System of Royalties by
mandating that all regional investment projects are approved and
supervised by the Órganos Colegiados de Administración y Decisión, as
evidenced by: (i) the issuance of the Borrower's Law No. 1530, dated
May 17, 2012, duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May
                                                                             Met
17, 2012; (ii) the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 1075, dated May
22, 2012, duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 22,
2012; and (iii) the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 1949, dated
September 19, 2012, duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on September 19, 2012.
The Borrower has: (i) issued new rules for the operation of Colombia
Mayor; (ii) increased the coverage and budget of Colombia Mayor; and
(iii) reinforced the targeting of the program towards old-age population
                                                                             Met
under conditions of extreme or moderate poverty, as evidenced by the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor's Resolutions: (A) No. 1370, dated May 2,
2013; and (B) No. 2958, dated November 23, 2012.
The Borrower has mandated the provision of specific measures to protect
women who are victims of gender violence, such as provision of meals,
transport and temporary housing, as evidenced by: (i) the Borrower's
Decree No. 2734, dated December 27, 2012, duly published in the              Met
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 28, 2012; and (ii) the
Borrower's Ministry of Health's Resolution No. 459, dated March 6,
2012.
The Borrower has implemented measures to strengthen the operation of
SIIF Nación to enhance transparency and accountability in the execution
of the public budget, including, inter alia the incorporation of data
related to revenues and budget execution to the transparency portal
(Portal de Transparencia Económica), as evidenced by: (i) Letter No. 2-      Met
2013-026879, dated July 29, 2013; (ii) the Borrower's Decree No. 2674
of December 21, 2012, duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
on December 21, 2012; and (iii) the Borrower's Ministry of Finance's
Act. No. 16 of February 26, 2013.
The Borrower has updated its methodology for the measurement of
poverty through the establishment of institutional arrangements for
improving the quality, transparency and replicability of poverty and other
social indicators, as evidenced by: (i) the publication of Document
CONPES Social No. 150, dated May 28, 2012; and (ii) the establishment        Met
of: (A) the Executive Committee for the Measurement of Monetary
Poverty; and (B) the Executive Committee for the Measurement of
Multidimensional Poverty, through the issuance of DANE's Resolutions
No. 871 and 877, respectively, of August 24, 2012.




                                            5
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The operation was implemented as originally envisioned, as a result of its sound preparation and
favorable macroeconomic and political environments. Specific factors affecting implementation
can be summarized as follows:

Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Government's program was the result of a complex process of consultations and negotiation.
In addition to the participatory measures associated with the National Development Plan
"Prosperity for All, 2010-2014," all Prior Actions were subject to consultations, which, in some
cases spanned over more than two years and involved massive consultations with key
stakeholders, training and dissemination efforts. For example, in the case of tax reform,
consultations included labor unions, chambers of commerce, other private sector associations,
social sectors, and academia. In the case of the reform of the royalty system, consultations
included government officials at the municipal and departmental levels as well as internal control
agencies, universities and civil society. In the case of gender equity, consultations included gender
experts, international donors and women's rights organizations throughout the country.

Conducive economic and political implementation environment: Stable economic and
political conditions rendered a favorable implementation environment. During 2013-2014,
Colombia continued with a robust economic performance with the support of a strong policy
framework—anchored by an inflation-targeting regime, a flexible exchange rate, a structural
fiscal balance rule, and effective financial supervision and regulation—that has allowed GoC
authorities to respond adequately to shocks and pursue effective demand management. As a result,
real GDP grew at a pace of 4.3 and 4.6 percent during 2013 and 2014, respectively (IMF, 2014,
2015). Likewise, the re-election of President Juan Manuel Santos to a second term in office has
also provided stability in the country’s government agenda and strategic priorities. Although the
opposition increased its representation, the ruling coalition maintained a working majority in
Congress during the congressional elections held in March 2014. In spite of the end of the
unilateral ceasefire with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the associated
increase in the incidence of violence and attacks against infrastructure, the peace talks which
began between the GoC and FARC are proceeding. An agreement has been reached on three of
the five topics under discussion.

This DPL built on previous analytical and technical assistance work, and particularly on
the outcomes of the Colombia Equity Day that the World Bank organized in March 2013 as
part of the Colombia Poverty and Equity Programmatic Approach (P133763). This event
consisted of a full day closed-door discussion on equity challenges in Colombia with academics,
international experts, and policymakers at the highest level. 3 The Equity Day workshop and
subsequent engagement led to the identification of priority policy areas fundamental to reducing
the high and persistent inequality in Colombia. Additionally, substantial analytical work was
conducted as part of the knowledge engagement with GoC and the Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (PSIA) for this operation. Carried out with a strong engagement with the GoC
counterparts, the PSIA focused on the six the policy areas supported under the operation and
provided a robust analysis of the expected outcomes on equity of the supported policy actions.
Quantitative and qualitative analyses specific to the policies evaluated were performed, and
information was gathered from literature reviews and interviews with officials from the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP), Department of National Planning (DNP), Alta Consejería
Presidencial para la Equidad de la Mujer (Presidential Council for Women's Equity) and other


3
  Participants included the Ministers of Finance and Labor, four vice ministers, other senior government
officials from the National Planning Department, the National Service of Learning, the Bureau of Social
Prosperity, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Higher Education, and the Directorate of Taxation, the WB
Country Director for Colombia and Mexico, the Bank’s Country Manager for Colombia and two managers
(LCSPP and LCSPS), academics and international experts.
                                                    6
key stakeholders. Finally, through collaboration and the provision of evidence, the PSIA was used
to strengthen the policy dialogue with GoC counterparts.

The Bank's country team has collaborated very closely with the IMF, notably on the review
of macroeconomic developments, including fiscal projections and the analysis of debt
sustainability. Overall, the program supported under this DPL was fully consistent with IMF
policy advice. The two institutions had worked closely together in areas related to the DPL
program, including revenue administration improvement and public financial management
(including debt management). The IMF and the Bank had also been advising the Government on
tax policy reform and customs administration.

This DPL complemented the Bank's substantial partnership with the GoC on fiscal and
public sector management. In particular, this operation was part of a strategic, programmatic,
and multi-sectoral engagement that included lending operations, knowledge products, and
technical assistance, including a series of tax studies carried out under the Fiscal and Growth
Programmatic Knowledge Service (P124256), the Consolidation of Public Management
Information Systems (P106628; US$25 million; approved on December 17, 2009) as well as
Colombia’s Subnational Institutional Strengthening investment Loan (P123879; US$70 million:
approved on Dec. 17, 2013). In addition, this DPL built on the programmatic series of DPLs that
had provided support to Colombia’s fiscal reforms since 2011, totaling $500 million. The use of
a range of Bank instruments has helped to support specific needs while building collective
synergies and a multi-sector knowledge base to support Colombia's ongoing development agenda.



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
Logical framework: Overall, the operation’s monitoring was based on an M&E system
embedded in the operation’s Policy Matrix, consisting of eight KPIs to measure achievement in
the six policy areas supported under the operation. In general, KPIs indicators were directly linked
to the policies being supported under the operation and only minor weaknesses were observed
(see Section 3.1 – Relevance of Design).
Analytical studies: Three analytical studies were conducted under the PSIA to determine the
potential distributional effects of the tax reform (i.e., IMAN and VAT) on poverty and inequality
effects utilizing different data sources and methodologies

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
M&E implementation was the responsibility of multiple agencies. Specifically, the MHCP’s
Department of Public Credit was responsible for collecting and reporting data on fiscal reform.
Similarly, the National Planning Ministry (Departamento Nacional de Planificación – DNP)’s
Directorate of Evaluation of Public Policies, which is also responsible for the National Evaluation
System of Management and Results (SINERGIA), was responsible for collecting and reporting
on the implementation progress of the reform to the royalty system, Colombia Mayor, and gender
indicators. Finally, the National Statistics Bureau (Departamento Administrativo Nacional de
Estadistica – DANE) was responsible for the annual online release of household survey micro-
data for replicating poverty and other social indicators.
This multi-agency arrangement worked well, except for the reporting of KPI 1 (i.e., Total
direct tax revenues paid by the top 0.4 percent of earners as a percentage of GDP). Even though
this indicator was available during preparation, it was not reported during the Project’s
implementation period or at closing. Although the MHCP was responsible for this KPI, the data
required to construct the indicator had to be obtained from the Tax and Customs Directorate
(Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales – DIAN). The indicator was also outside of
DIAN’s regular monitoring framework, for which specific analysis was required for its
construction. It is important to note that lack of reporting was not due to a change in openness on
the part of the authorities, but rather due to personnel changes at both the MHCP and DIAN since
                                                 7
preparation, as reported in the 2014 ISR. Even though the Government is not tracking the top 0.4
percent, it is still monitoring the top earners, as indicated by the data presented under Section 3.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
The Bank regularly monitored progress through two Bank supervision missions. Progress toward
the achievement of policy actions was closely monitored by the various sector specialists and
reported in the Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).


2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
Not Applicable

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation)
Relevance: High

Relevance of Objectives: This operation’s objectives were and continue to be highly relevant in
relation to the GoC’s priorities and the strategic objectives guiding the collaboration between
Colombia and the Bank.
Specifically, the operation’s PDOs were fully consistent with overarching goal of Democratic
Prosperity that guided Colombia’s 2010-2014 National Development Plan (NDP) Prosperity for
All. 4 While the operation directly supported various aspects of the NDP 2010-2014, its strong
focus on equity was in full alignment with the second pillar: “Equality of opportunities for social
prosperity,” which aimed at creating a level playing field to ensure that every Colombian had
access to the fundamental tools that enable them to shape their own destiny regardless of gender,
ethnicity, social status or place of origin (DNP, 2011).

The operation’s PDOs are also fully consistent with the 2014-2018 NDP – All for a New Country:
Peace, Equity and Education. 5 As in the case of the preceding NDP, the operation directly
supported various aspects of the NDP 2014-2018. However, its strong focus on equity was in full
alignment with the second pillar: “An equitable Colombia without extreme poverty,” which aims
at reducing gaps in income and access to services among the population and promoting inclusive
economic development of the country and its regions (DNP, 2015).

The reforms supported under this DPL are in alignment with the World Bank's Colombia Country
Partnership Strategy - CPS FY12-16 (Report No. 60620-CO, discussed by the Board of Executive
Directors on July 21, 2011), which was effective at the time of both approval and closing of the
DPL. The CPS focuses on three strategic themes: i) Expanding Opportunities for Social
Prosperity; ii) Sustainable Growth with Enhanced Climate Change Resilience; and iii) Inclusive
Growth with Enhanced Productivity. This DPL provided support to two of these strategic themes.
Specifically, this DPL supported Strategic Theme 2 – Expanding Opportunities for Social



4
  The NDP 2010-2014 is grounded on three vertical pillars: (i) Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness,
(ii) Equality of Opportunities for Social Prosperity, and (iii) Consolidation of Peace. In turn, these pillars
are supported by four transversal axes: i) Innovation; ii) Good Government; and iii) International
Relevance; and iv) Environmental Sustainability. Together with an eighth thematic dimension—Regional
Development and Convergence—these vertical pillars and transversal axes support the NDP’s overarching
objective of “Democratic Prosperity.”
5
  The 2014-2018 NDP focuses on three pillars: i) peace, ii) equity, and iii) education. In turn, five
transversal strategies contribute to the achievement of these pillars: i) competitiveness and strategic
infrastructure; ii) social mobility; iii) transformation of the countryside; iv) security, justice and democracy
for peace building; and v) good governance.
                                                         8
Promotion by contributing to the corresponding long-term outcomes of: i) enhanced social
promotion; and ii) improved performance of social services. Likewise, it supported Strategic
Theme 3 - Inclusive Growth and Enhanced Productivity by contributing to the corresponding
long-term outcome of: i) improved public sector management and equity and efficiency of
economic policies.

                                    Relevance of Objectives - High
                                       High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 (i.e.,
                                        pillars focusing on “sustainable growth and
                                        competitiveness growth,” and “equal opportunities for
 PDO 1 - Improve the                    shared prosperity.”)
 progressivity of the tax system       High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
 and reduce the cost of formal          pillar focusing on “equity;” and transversal strategy
 employment creation.                   focusing on “competitiveness.”)
                                       High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
                                        2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “inclusive
                                        growth”).
                                       High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 (i.e.,
                                        thematic dimension “regional development and
 PDO 2 - Strengthen actions to          convergence”).
 reduce territorial inequities by      High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
 establishing a more equitable          pillar focusing “equity,” the territorial aspects in
 decision making process for            particular).
 regional investment projects.         High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
                                        2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “inclusive
                                        growth”).
 PDO 3 - Improve the targeting  High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 ((i.e.,
 of expenditures to protect          pillar focusing on “equal opportunities for shared
 vulnerable groups by improving      prosperity;” and transversal axis focusing on “good
 targeting of subsidies to old-age   government.”)
 population.                        High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
                                     pillar focusing on “equity;” and transversal strategy
                                     focusing on “good governance.”)
                                    High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
                                     2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “social
                                     promotion”).
                                       High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 ((i.e.,
 PDO 4 - Contribute to the              pillar focusing on “equal opportunities for shared
 reduction of gender inequities         prosperity;” and transversal axis focusing on “good
 by improving the capacity of           government.”)
 the government to protect             High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
 women who are victims of               pillar focusing on “equity.”)
 gender-based violence.                High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
                                        2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “social
                                        promotion”).
 PDO 5 – Enhance the                   High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 ((i.e.,
 transparency and coverage of           transversal axis focusing on “good government.”)
 the national financial                High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
 management information                 transversal strategy focusing on “good governance.”)
 systems.                              High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
                                        2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “inclusive
                                        growth”).

                                                  9
 PDO 6 - Enhance the                 High relevance with respect to DNP 2010-2014 ((i.e.,
 transparency, quality of             transversal axis focusing on “good government.”)
 information and governance of       High relevance with respect to DNP 2014-2018 (i.e.,
 the monitoring of poverty,           transversal strategy focusing on “good governance.”)
 equity and other social welfare     High relevance with respect to the Bank’s CPS 2012-
 indicators.                          2016 (i.e., strategic theme focusing on “inclusive
                                      growth”).

Relevance of Design: As a whole, the operation’s design is considered to have substantial
relevance. Specifically, three of the six policy actions included in the Policy Matrix are deemed
highly relevant, as they focused on structural reforms aimed at enhancing fiscal and territorial
equity, as well as enhancing the measurement of poverty. Two of the remaining policy areas
focusing on gender and older adults are considered to have substantial relevance, as they focus
on improvements at the program level rather than structural reforms. Finally, the policy area
focusing on enhanced access to financial management information is considered to have modest
relevance, as it bears a less direct relationship to the operation’s overarching focus on equity. The
relevance of individual KPIs varies from high to modest. Specifically:
                                Relevance of Design - Substantial
                     Policy Area 1 – More Equitable Tax Administration
Policy Area 1 is deemed to be highly relevant, given that Colombia's overall fiscal system (i.e.,
tax and transfers) showed a limited redistributive capacity compared to other LAC countries.
The comprehensive tax reform approved by Congress on December 2012 constituted a
significant step toward improving post-tax income equity and promoting the creation of formal
jobs by reducing the cost of formal employment creation. Thus, providing support to the 2012
fiscal reform under this DPL was fully justified given its relevance in terms of enhancing fiscal
equity.
KPI 1 - Total direct tax
revenues paid by the top 0.4       High relevance, as this indicator shows the distributive
percent of earners as a              impact of the fiscal reform.
percentage of GDP.
                                   High relevance, as this indicator tracked collection of the
                                     new corporate tax, CREE that was introduced under the
                                     2012 fiscal reform to shift the income tax burden from
                                     labor to capital.
KPI 2 - Tax revenues from
                                   Given the short period of time that had elapsed after the
CREE as a percentage of GDP.
                                     2012 fiscal reform and the short life span of this DPL, the
                                     only feasible M&E alternative was to focus on the
                                     implementation of the new tax (i.e., revenues) rather than
                                     on its ultimate impact of job creation.
      Policy Area 2 – Inter-Regional Equity and Broadening Local Revenue Sources
Policy Area 2 is deemed to be highly relevant, as the 2011 constitutional reform that
redesigned Colombia’s Royalty System constituted a drastic step toward enhancing territorial
equity in the distribution of royalty funds. Thus, providing support to the 2011 royalties reform
under this DPL was fully justified given its relevance in terms of enhancing territorial equity.
                                  Substantial relevance, as this indicator captures whether
                                   the 2011 constitutional reform and subsequent 2012
KPI 3 – Number of projects         enabling legislation were being implemented as
approved by OCAD and under         envisioned. Thus, although the KPI may seemingly focus
contract that correspond to the    on outputs, these outputs are a good proxy for the
new general system of royalties.   implementation of the SGR reform, which is a key
                                   intermediate outcome. It is still too early in the process to
                                   assess impact.
                                                 10
                                      A complementary indicator focusing on the territorial
                                       coverage of the investments would have been useful.
                            Policy Area 3 – Equity in Social Spending
Policy Area 3 is deemed to have substantial relevance, given the increasing relative importance
of the old-age population and its vulnerability. Specifically, Colombia’s aging index has
steadily increased over the past decade, from 17.3 to 22.6 between 2000 and 2010 and is
expected to reach 32.2 by 2020.6 Moreover, this age group is particularly vulnerable given the
lack of guaranteed income in the absence of work.7 Thus, improving the targeting of the
subsidies aimed to older adults is considered to be substantially relevant, particularly because
other poverty reduction programs targeting other key vulnerable groups are have been
supported with other Bank support (i.e., the “Familias en Accion” and “Red Unidos”
Programs).8
Focusing both on expanding the coverage and size of the transfer in addition to enhanced
targeting, however, would have been considered more appropriate, given the partial coverage
of the target population.
KPI 4 - Share of eligible
                                    Modest relevance, as the indicator focused on coverage
beneficiaries receiving the
                                      rather than targeting; thus, it was not well aligned with
Colombia Mayor program
                                      PDO 3.
subsidy.
                                 Policy Area 4 – Gender Equity
Policy Area 4 is deemed to have substantial relevance, given that gender-based violence is one
of the central issues that affect the welfare of women in Colombia. Domestic violence not only
constitutes a violation of basic human rights but also affects labor market outcomes.
KPI 5 - Total budget assigned
                                      Modest relevance, since, as demonstrated by the
to finance provision of specific
                                       operation’s implementation experience, a budget
measures to protect women who
                                       allocation does not necessarily translate into improved
are victims of gender violence
                                       government capacity or the reduction of gender
as a percentage of the national
                                       inequities.
current expenditures
        Policy Area 5 – Open Access to Financial Management Information Systems
 Policy Area 5 is deemed to have modest relevance. Although open access to financial
 management information systems is necessary to enhance transparency and accountability in
 the execution of the public budget, its relation to fiscal, territorial and gender equity is not as
 direct as the other Policy Areas supported under this DPL.
KPI 6 - % of the information
related to budget execution with
                                    High relevance, in relation to the Policy Area and the
respect to the total amount of
                                      corresponding PDO, despite the modest relevance of the
the national budget that is
                                      policy area to the program overall.
published in the transparency
portal on a daily basis



6
  The aging index is defined as the number of adults age 60 or older for each 100 children and youth age
15 or less, multiplied by 100.
7
  Sixty one percent have no alternative source of income, such as a pension, in large part due to the
prevalence of informal employment.
8
  Support for the Second Phase of the Expansion of the Program of Conditional Transfers - Familias en
Acción Project – Social Safety Net II (P101211); Peace and Development (P051306); and Social Safety
Net III (P104507)




                                                   11
KPI 7 - % of information
related to revenue collection
                                  High relevance, in relation to the Policy Area and the
with respect to the total amount
                                    corresponding PDO, despite the modest relevance of the
of the national budget that is
                                    policy area to the program overall.
published in the transparency
portal on a daily basis
              Policy Area 6 – Monitoring of Poverty and Other Social Indicators
Policy Area 6 is deemed to be highly relevant, given that robust poverty measurement is a pre-
condition for sound evidence-based poverty alleviation and equity-enhancement policies.
KPI 8 - Endorsement of annual
release of monetary and
multidimensional poverty          High relevance, as it focuses on the implementation of
indicators and its corresponding    governance mechanisms of poverty and equity
micro-data by the Monetary          measurement, which, in turn, can be expected to translate
Poverty Expert Committee and        into greater transparency and quality.
the Multidimensional Expert
Committee.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
Overall, PDO achievement has been strong, with the operation providing support to a package of
policy actions focusing on equity across various sectors. It should be pointed out that the impacts
that could be measured at closing are not likely to capture the full impact of the operation. As it
is the case in all single-tranche DPLs, one of the major challenges in assessing the outcome is
often the short time period that has passed between the implementation of a policy and the time
by which that policy is being assessed. This often implies limitations in data availability, but also
a limitation in the possibility a policy has had to reach its full impact. In the case of this operation,
this limitation is particularly relevant in the case of reforms focusing on fiscal and territorial
equity, as changes in the income distribution tend to occur slowly and over longer periods of time.
Progress within each Policy Area and corresponding PDOs is summarized below.
PDO1 – Improve the progressivity of the tax system and reduce the cost of formal employment
creation.
Improve the progressivity of the tax system – Substantial Achievement: On December 2012,
Congress approved a comprehensive tax reform (Law No. 1607/2012) designed to improve equity
and efficiency, promote hiring in the formal sector, and simplify the tax system. Changes in the
income tax and VAT have been implemented successfully, as shown by the level of revenue
collections in the post-reform period that are in line with the anticipated targets. While it is still
too early to fully assess the reform’s actual impact on income distribution, prospective studies
and preliminary evidence indicate that the income tax reform has indeed contributed to reducing
income inequality. Conversely, VAT reforms are not expected to have had a significant
redistributive impact. The main outcomes of the income tax and VAT reforms can be summarized
as follows:
   Income tax and VAT reforms
   • A new alternative income tax, IMAN, is now applied to improve progressivity in the
        personal income tax structure. It levies higher tax rates on the top 0.6 percent of the income
        distribution than under the previous system, while the remaining 99.4 percent of taxpayers
        are expected to face lower taxes than previously.
   • The VAT structure was streamlined to reduce administrative and compliance costs. To
        improve the progressivity of consumption taxes, a higher rate on “luxury” goods was
        introduced to the value-added tax (VAT) structure, allowing rates for other goods and
        services to be lowered without decreasing revenues. The reforms were designed to be
        revenue-neutral, with the focus being primarily on distributive impact rather than on
        increasing tax revenues.

                                                   12
Impact on poverty and redistribution
 KPI 1 – Total direct tax revenues paid by the top 0.4 percent of earners as a percentage of
 GDP (Undetermined)
• While data on the top 0.4 percent was not available, comparable data provided by MHCP
   shows that the 2012 fiscal reform had a positive impact on fiscal equity. The data is based
   on actual tax records (rather than surveys or simulation studies) and captures the fiscal
   effect on vigintiles (intervals of 5 percent) rather than the top 0.4 percent of earners.
• The comparison of income tax liabilities for 2012 and 2013 by quantiles indicates that the
   income tax is now more progressive as a result of the changes in the income tax introduced
   in the 2012 reform. Specifically, the share of income tax paid by the top ten percent of
   earners increased from 56.8 to 58.4 percent between 2012 and 2013.
• The tax burden over the different vigintiles shows that the system was more progressive in
   2013 than in 2012, having decreased for the twelve lowest vigintiles and increased for the
   top six ones. For example, earners in the bottom income vigintile paid on average the 13
   percent of their reported income on taxes in 2012, while they paid about 1 percent in 2013.
   Conversely, earners in the top income vigintile paid on average the 2 percent of their
   reported income on taxes in 2012, while they paid about 2.3 percent in 2013 (see Table 1
   and Figure 1),


             Table 3 and Figure 1. Effective Income Tax Rate by Vigintile 2012, 2013
    Vigintiles based     Implicit Income  Tax Rate
      on Reported                          Difference  
                                                                 Implicit Income Tax Rate, Natural Persons, 2012‐2013
                        2012       2013                               (Tax collection by vigintile as a % of reported income)
         Income                            2012‐2013
                                                          14.0
       1 (Bottom)       13.0        1.0       ‐12.1
             2           1.8        0.2        ‐1.6
                                                          12.0
             3           0.9        0.3        ‐0.6
             4           0.5        0.4        ‐0.1
                                                          10.0
             5           0.7        0.4        ‐0.4
             6           0.8        0.4        ‐0.3
                                                           8.0
             7           0.8        0.5        ‐0.3
             8           1.0        0.7        ‐0.3        6.0
             9           1.1        0.8        ‐0.2
            10           1.2        1.0        ‐0.2        4.0
            11           1.5        1.3        ‐0.1
            12           1.7        1.6        ‐0.1        2.0
            13           1.9        1.8        0.0
            14           2.2        2.1        ‐0.1        0.0
            15           2.4        2.6        0.1
            16           3.1        3.2        0.1
            17           3.5        3.7        0.2
                                                                                  Vigintile based on reported income
            18           3.9        4.0        0.1
            19           3.7        4.1        0.4                                         2012    2013
        20 (Top)         2.0        2.3        0.2

Source: MHCP (2015).

•       Results from analytical studies using various methodologies and data sources on income
        also indicate that Colombia’s changes in the income tax served the intended purpose of
        reducing income inequality. Using the constructed full income distribution, the Gini
        coefficient decreases from 0.586 to 0.579—a decrease of 0.7 percentage points compared
        to the 0.4 percentage point decrease observed when relying solely on household surveys.
        Considering that the average yearly reduction of the Gini coefficient in the LAC region
        over the last 10 years was 0.51 percentage points, Colombia’s estimated reduction in the
        Gini coefficient is not trivial (World Bank, 2014).
•       Results of Bank-financed analytical studies indicate that, at the national level, changes to
        the VAT code are expected to have only a modest impact on inequality and tax revenues,
        and practically no impact in terms of their incidence. Assuming no tax evasion, the
        approved changes to the VAT code are expected to be marginally regressive. However,
        assuming some tax evasion, the approved changes to the VAT code are expected to be
        overall progressive at the national level, progressive in rural areas, and marginally
        regressive in urban areas (World Bank, 2014). These results are consistent with those of
                                                                 13
        other studies. For example, Steiner and Cañas (2013) also found a negligible—albeit
        positive—distributive effect from the changes in the VAT, with the GINI index decreasing
        from 0.5066 to 0.5061 before and after the reforms.

Reduce the cost of formal employment creation – Substantial Achievement: Reforms aimed at
promoting hiring in the formal sector under the 2012 tax fiscal reform were successfully
implemented and appear to have had a positive impact on the creation of formal jobs, as indicated
by the results of simulation studies and actual trends in job creation. The main outcomes can be
summarized as follows:
   Fiscal reforms to promote formal job creation
Payroll taxes were reduced to alleviate the tax burden on the labor sector and provide incentives
for corporations to increase hiring. In addition, a new corporate tax, CREE, was introduced to
shift the income tax burden from labor to capital. The CREE also shifted the burden from
companies in labor-intensive industries to those in highly profitable and capital-intensive
industries (such as oil and gas).
    KPI 2 – Tax revenues from CREE as a percentage of GDP.
    • Revenues from CREE collection amounted US$1.2 billion in 2013 when it was first
         implemented and reached US$5.2 billion in 2014—equivalent to 13.4 percent of 2014
         domestic taxes and 1.59 percent of GDP.9 CREE collections were significantly higher
         than the anticipated target (0.61 percent) and t also exceeded DIAN’s official targets for
         the period Aug. 2013-July 2014 by 11 percent.

    Impact on formal job creation
     • Results from simulation studies indicate that the 2012 tax reform will have a positive
        impact on the creation of formal jobs and wages. Overall, results suggest a large
        reallocation of labor across occupations and formality status as a result of the reform and
        a small positive impact on total employment (Antón, 2014). Specifically, total
        employment is expected to increase between 0.3 and 0.5 percent as a result of the reform
        with respect to the pre-reform scenario. Correspondingly, formal employment would rise
        between 3.4 and 3.7 percent, and informal employment would decrease between 2.9 and
        3.4 percent. The reform is also expected to result in an increase in the net wage for formal
        workers between 4.8 and 4.9 percent, suggesting that the fall in payroll taxes may
        translate into higher wages for formal workers (Antón, 2014).
     • Although it is still too early to determine the impact of these reforms, post-reform actual
        trends in the creation of formal jobs are highly encouraging and consistent with the
        anticipated impact. Since the adoption of the tax reform—and in a highly favorable
        macroeconomic environment—employment, formal employment in particular, has
        exhibited a clear upward trend.
        In particular:
         As shown on Figure 2, the employment rate reached 56.9 percent in January 2015,
            which is the highest employment rate for the reference month on record
            (Fedesarrollo, 2015).




9
 In Colombian Pesos, CREE revenues amounted to CO$12,918,493 million (DIAN, tax revenues as of
March 19, 2015, while the GDP reached CO$756,152,000 million in 2014 (Colombian Central Bank, 2015).




                                                 14
                           Figure 2. Employment rate 2009-2015




       Source: Fedesarrollo (2015).

          As shown on Figure 3, the creation of formal employment in the 13 major cities
           exhibited an upsurge following the enactment of the 2012 fiscal reform, peaking at
           5.9 percent in August-October 2014. The rate of formal job creation subsequently
           stabilized at around 5.1 percent with respect to the same quarter last year.
          Concomitantly, the creation of informal employment in the 13 major cities exhibited
           a drastic decrease following the enactment of the 2012 fiscal reform, reaching a
           maximum decrease of 1.4 percent in August-October 2014. While the downward
           trend has subsequently reverted, the rate of creation of informal jobs is still
           significantly lower than that of formal ones, growing at an annual growth of 1.5
           during the November 2014-January 2015 quarter with respect to the same quarter last
           year (Fedesarrollo, 2015).


Figure 3. Annual variation in the proportion of formal and informal employment creation
                                    in 13 major cities




Source: Fedesarrollo (2015).

          As shown on Figure 4, there has been a sustained decrease in informality following
           the 2012 fiscal reform. The proportion of informal employment for the thirteen major
           cities reached 48.1 percent in the November 2014-January 2015 quarter and averaged
           48.4 percent for the last twelve months, which is the lowest on record (Fedesarrollo,
           2015).




                                              15
               Figure 4. Proportion of informal employment in 13 major cities




Source: Fedesarrollo (2015).


    •   Despite these recent positive trends on formal job creation no causality must be claimed
        with respect to the tax reform. Although observed employment trends in the post-reform
        period are consistent with the spirit of the reform, which aimed to make salaried labor
        cheaper and, thus increase the demand for formal jobs at the expense of informal ones,
        these trends may also reflect the impact of other factors being at work. For instance,
        demand side factors such as higher investment (including foreign direct investment) in
        labor intensive sectors with high rate of formality, due to more dynamic economic growth
        and less conflict, may also explain the recent trends in higher formality rates. In addition,
        some institutional factors that aim to reduce frictional unemployment such as job
        matching mechanisms, and particularly the recently enhanced National Employment
        Services, may be other factor that could explain the recent dynamic creation of formal
        jobs.


PDO 2 – Strengthen actions to reduce territorial inequities by establishing a more equitable
decision making process for regional investment projects

 High Achievement: Colombia’s General Royalty System (SGR) underwent a drastic reform in
 2011 (Legislative Act 05, 2011), which substantially enhanced the territorial equity in the
 distribution of royalties. The 2011 reform of the SGR was complemented by the issuance of Law
 1530 of 2012, which established the organization of resources from royalties in five funds: i)
 science, technology and innovation; ii) regional development; iii) regional compensation; iv)
 saving and stabilization; and v) territorial pension. Through these funds, royalties are distributed
 to finance investment projects aimed at promoting social, economic, institutional and
 environmental development at the municipal, department and regional levels. Some of the
 specific outcomes include:
    Reform of the SGR
    • Prior to the reform, 80 percent of the royalties were allocated exclusively among the
        producing territorial entities, benefiting 522 municipalities. Under the new SGR, royalties
        now benefit 1,089 municipalities in all departments of the country.
    • In terms of targeting, the SGR’s Regional Compensation Fund aims to finance
        development projects of regional and local impact in the poorest regions of the country,
        using poverty and unemployment as two of the fund’s allocation criteria.
    • Under the new SGR methodology, local authorities must submit investment projects to
        OCADs, which are in charge of project evaluation and approval as well as designating
        the party responsible for their implementation. The OCADs are composed of
        representatives from the national and subnational governments. For this purpose, OCADs
        have been conformed at the regional, departmental and municipal levels.
                                                 16
     •  In addition, the DNP has been assigned responsibility for the SGR’s overall
        administration, monitoring, and evaluation to ensure the proper use of SGR resources and
        the achievement of the intended development impact.
     Implementation of the SGR Reform
     KPI 3 – Number of projects approved by OCAD and under contract that correspond to the
     new general system of royalties (348 percent level of achievement)
     • As of December 31, 2014, a total of 6,770 projects have been approved by the OCADs
        amounting to over US$9.6 trillion, 65 percent of which corresponded to SGR funds
        (DNP, 2015).
     • As of December 31, 2014, a total of 2,105 projects (31 percent) had been completed and
        3,118 projects (46 percent) were under contract, amply exceeding the target of 1,500
        projects.
     • Transport projects accounted for 31percent of the portfolio, followed by projects in
        science, technology and (13 percent), education (12 percent) and housing (9 percent).
        Information on individual investment projects (including region, department,
        municipality, amount, sector, status) is publicly available at the SGR’s website
     • The DNP is also providing systematic technical assistance to local governments in project
        identification, preparation and evaluation to ensure the soundness of the investment
        projects and adequate skills building at the local level, with a particular focus on poorer
        municipalities. Technical assistance to poor territorial entities is critical to ensure
        equitable access to SGR funds given the demand-driven nature of the allocation
        mechanism and the high transaction costs of complying with SGR rules and regulations.
     Impact on territorial equity
     • Results from analysis on territorial convergence conducted as part of the PSIA
        (Rodríguez-Castelán et al., 2014) shows that the new SGR is expected to become a factor
        of regional convergence for the period 2012 to 2016, accelerating income growth among
        poorer department; thus promoting convergence between between poor and rich
        departmental units. In addition to reducing income disparities across departments, the
        new SGR is also shown to result in reductions in poverty and extreme poverty.

 PDO 3 - Improve the targeting of expenditures to protect vulnerable groups by improving
 targeting of subsidies to old-age population

High Achievement: The GoC has issued new rules for the operation of Colombia Mayor; increased
its budget to expand coverage, and reinforced the targeting of the program towards old-age
population under conditions of extreme or moderate poverty. Specific achievements under the
operation included:
     Coverage
     KPI 4 – Share of eligible beneficiaries receiving the Colombia Mayor program subsidy
     (144% level of achievement).
     • Funding for the Colombia Mayor Program increased substantially between 2012 and
         2014, with the number of beneficiaries more than doubling between 2012 and 2014 (from
         713,660 to 1,456,409 beneficiaries).
     • Thus, considering that there are 2.4 million older adults living in poverty or extreme
         poverty, the percentage of eligible beneficiaries receiving the subsidy has increased from
         30 to 60.1 percent between 2012 and 2014, amply exceeded the 42 percent target set by
         the project.
     Targeting
     • As in the case of all social programs in Colombia, the targeting of Colombia Mayor
         beneficiaries is done utilizing the System for Potential Beneficiary Identification (Sistema
         de Identificación de Beneficiarios Potentiales de Programas Sociales – SISBEN), with
         seniors included in the categories SISBEN 1 and 2 being eligible to participate. In
         addition to the improvements made in the overall SISBEN methodology, targeting under

                                                 17
          the program was improved in several ways: (i) using additional prioritization criteria,
          including age, levels of dependency, neglect and disability; ii) including target population
          not registered in SISBEN (i.e., the so-called “SISBEN 0” )10 to improve exclusion errors;
          iii) cross-checking eligibility requirements with other information systems (such as
          payroll databases) on a monthly basis to improve inclusion errors.
     • Concomitantly with the increase in coverage, targeting has also improved, with the
          proportion of beneficiaries qualifying as SISBEN 0 or 1 increasing from 75 to 83 percent
          between 2012 and 2014.
     In terms of territorial coverage, all municipalities have population receiving the subsidy.

PDO 4 – Contribute to the reduction of gender inequities by improving the capacity of the
government to protect women who are victims of gender-based violence

Modest Achievement: Although the GoC has mandated the provision of specific measures to
protect women who are victims of gender violence, such as provision of meals, transport and
temporary housing (Decree No. 2734/2012 and Ministry of Health's Resolution No. 459/2012),
no services were provided. Achievements under this policy area were mixed, as follows:
    KPI 5 - Total budget assigned to finance provision of specific measures to protect women
    who are victims of gender violence (defined in Decree No. 2734) as a percentage of the
    national current expenditures (Partial achievement).
    • The budget allocation for measures to protect women victims of domestic violence was
        fulfilled in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Budgetary allocations amounted to CO$10.96 billion
        and CO$12.5 billion in 2013 and 2014, respectively—equivalent to 0.11 percent of the
        2013 and 2014 national current expenditures (compared to a target of 0.01 percent).11
    • In 2013, the Ministry of Health issued a resolution (No. 1895/2013) allocating the
        corresponding budget among territorial entities for the provision of such services under
        one of its funds (Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantía – FOSYGA).
    • However, funds were not disbursed due to operational and normative issues. In official
        correspondence to the DNP, the Ministry of Health enumerated the reasons that impeded
        the provision of services, including, among others, normative ineligibility of certain
        categories of expenses (i.e., room, transportation, food); difficulties in the identification
        of beneficiaries; lack of adequate infrastructure at the municipal level (i.e., lodging
        facilities); and lack of clarity in payment procedures to beneficiaries. 12 Given the
        difficulties encountered, the Ministry of Health has submitted a proposal that would
        involve changing the law to allocate implementing powers to local authorities, which is
        expected to open a broad discussion about the future implementation of the law.
    • It is important to underscore that additional services are being provided to women victims
        of gender-based violence. For example, prolonged psychiatry and psychology services as
        well as group therapy for women victims of domestic and sexual violence is now included
        under the Mandatory Health Plan.
    • The GoC has also implemented a Help Line (“Línea Nacional de Atención a la Mujer
        155") to provide support and guidance in cases of gender-based violence. It is supported
        by a multi-disciplinary team, including police, psychologists, and other experts.

     Other advances in the area of gender equality in general



10
   SISBEN 0 refers to those living in poverty or extreme poverty that are reported by municipalities and
are not included in the SISBEN database. This SISBEN category tends to include population groups tends
to be difficult to capture using census procedures, such as indigenous and other neglected population
groups.
11
   National current expenditures were CO$100.6 and CO$114.8 trillion in 2013 and 2014, respectively.
12
   Ministry of Health, Memorandum No. 201421001219641 addressed to the DNP, August 27, 2014;
Letter to DNP, No. 201560000334651, June 3, 2015.
                                                     18
   •   In March 2013, the GoC launched guidelines on National Public Policy of Gender Equity
       and a comprehensive plan to guarantee a life free of violence (CONPES Social 161).
   •   There are ongoing efforts to institutionalize gender policies among line ministries and
       secretariats and territorial entities. There has also been significant progress toward the
       implementation of a Gender Observatory, which aims to collect gender-relevant statistics
       to measure progress toward gender equality.
   •   There was also progress toward monitoring the institutionalization of gender policies
       through the creation of the Division of Gender in the National Planning Department. This
       unit is responsible for policy monitoring and evaluation in the areas of gender, social
       diversity, teenage pregnancy, women victims of armed conflict, etc.
   •   The coordinated government actions to reduce gender-based violence have resulted in a
       tangible increase in awareness, both at the individual and institutional levels, which is
       denoted in the change in reported perceptions between 2009 and 2014 (see Table 2).

    Table 4. Individual perceptions and institutional responses related to gender-based
                                         violence




Source: Consejería Presidencial para la Equidad de la Mujer (2015).

PDO5 – Enhance the transparency and coverage of the national financial Management
information system

High Achievement. There has been substantial progress toward expanding coverage of the
financial management information available to the public in terms of both public expenditures
and revenues, thus contributing toward the objective of improving transparency and

                                              19
accountability in the execution of the public budget. Specific outcomes under the operation
include:
    Budget execution
    KPI 6 – Percentage of the information related to budget execution with respect to the total
    amount of the national budget that is published in the transparency portal on a daily basis
    (100 percent level of achievement).
     100 percent of information on executed budgetary expenses is available on the GoC’s
         Economic Transparency Portal (Portal de Transparencia Económica). 13 This
         information, including procurement, is available at the department level.
    Revenues
    KPI 7 – Percentage of information related to revenue collection with respect to the total
    amount of the national budget that is published in the transparency portal on a daily basis
    (125 percent level of achievement).
     100 percent of information on revenues is now available on the Transparency Portal,
         exceeding the 80 percent target).
     The Portal reflects data from Colombia’s Integrated Financial Administration System
         (Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera - SIIF II) and it is updated daily. Other
         impacts
     Satisfaction surveys
     Government officials and Colombian authorities use the Portal as an M&E tool, including
         the President, who routinely utilizes it in weekly Ministerial meetings (Consejo de
         Ministros).
     Results from a satisfaction survey conducted in 2015 reveals that 91.6 percent of users
         are satisfied with the system (ratings “good” to “excellent”).

PDO 6 – Enhance the transparency, quality of information and governance of the monitoring of
poverty, equity and other social welfare indicators.

High Achievement: The GoC has adopted drastic changes in the official methodology to measure
poverty, thus enhancing the credibility and clarity of official poverty measurements. Specific
outcomes under the operation include:
    Enhanced governance of poverty measurements
    • The GoC has updated its methodology for the measurement of poverty (CONPES Social
        No. 150/2012). In addition to previous guidelines to measure monetary poverty, the
        revised framework establishes specific roles for each institution: DANE is the producer
        of the indicators, the DNP is the validating institution responsible for replicating the
        calculations, and the Social Prosperity Department (DPS) is responsible for designing
        Colombia's poverty reduction strategy. Subsequently, DANE’s Resolutions established
        two Executive Committees to regulate the production and dissemination of such
        indicators as the multidimensional poverty index.
    • In addition, two committees were established—i.e., the Executive Committee for the
        Measurement of Monetary Poverty, and the Executive Committee for the Measurement
        of Multidimensional Poverty through the issuance of DANE's Resolutions in 2012. These
        committees are composed by representatives of DANE, DNP, DPS, as well as multilateral
        agencies (including the Bank) and academia. These committees meet every 3-4 months
        to discuss these topics and best practices in analytics and relevance for policy.
    KPI 8 – Endorsement of annual release of monetary and multidimensional poverty indicators
    and its corresponding micro-data by the Monetary Poverty Expert Committee and the
    Multidimensional Expert Committee (100 percent level of achievement).
    • Monetary and multidimensional poverty data for 2013 were validated by the expert
        committees during in March 2014. Likewise, poverty data for 2014 was validated in April
        2015.


13
     http://www.pte.gov.co/WebsitePTE/
                                              20
    •   During the ICR mission, authorities mentioned that the institutionalization of expert
        committees to validate the production and dissemination of multidimensional poverty
        index has served to improve the quality, transparency and replicability of poverty data
        and other social indicators.
    •   Authorities also reported that systematically monitoring the 15 indicators underlining the
        index of multidimensional poverty have been very useful in the design and
        implementation of public policies in general, and poverty alleviation policies in
        particular. .
    •   In addition, DANE has made available online annual household survey micro-data, which
        will allow non-government parties, such as academicians, to replicate poverty data and
        other social indicators.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
    Rating: Satisfactory
The operation’s objectives were highly relevant to the GoC’s past and current policy priorities.
The operation’s objectives were also fully aligned with those of the Bank’s CPS. The operation
also benefited from a substantially relevant design, with individual policy areas and policy actions
being largely supportive of the operation’s development objectives
In terms of efficacy, there was a strong level of achievement across the various policy actions,
with five of the six policy areas performing at a Substantial to High level of efficacy and only one
of them (i.e., gender equity) exhibiting a Modest level of Efficacy (see Table 4).
As a whole, the operation is rated Satisfactory. While all PDOs were given equal weight in this
ICR evaluation, it is worth noting that performance was particularly strong in those policy areas
supporting structural reforms, which underscores the significance of this operation from a policy
development perspective.
                     Table 5. Summary ratings for individual policy areas
                                                    Relevance     Relevance
                     Policy Area                        of        of Design            Efficacy
                                                    Objective         (*)
 PDO 1 - Improve the progressivity of the tax
                                                                                     a)
 system and reduce the cost of formal
                                                                                     Substantial
 employment creation.                                 High           High
                                                                                     b)
 a) Income tax and VAT
                                                                                     Substantial
 b) Creation of formal jobs
 PDO 2 - Strengthen actions to reduce territorial
 inequities by establishing a more equitable
                                                      High           High                High
 decision making process for regional investment
 projects.
 PDO 3 - Improve the targeting of expenditures to
 protect vulnerable groups by improving targeting     High       Substantial             High
 of subsidies to old-age population.
 PDO 4 - Contribute to the reduction of gender
 inequities by improving the capacity of the
                                                      High       Substantial            Modest
 government to protect women who are victims of
 gender-based violence.
 PDO 5 – Enhance the transparency and coverage
 of the national financial management                 High         Modest                High
 information systems.
 PDO 6 - Enhance the transparency, quality of
 information and governance of the monitoring of
                                                      High           High                High
 poverty, equity and other social welfare
 indicators.

                                                21
(*) Relevance of design refers to that of the policy area rather than individual KPIs indicators.
Efficacy is assessed based on KPIs that are considered relevant and additional evidence that is
consistent with the PDO.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The substantial analytical work on poverty that was conducted in preparation for this operation
has deepened the understanding of poverty dynamics in Colombia. In addition, this DPL was
strongly focused on poverty, gender and social development issues, for which a strong impact in
these areas is to be expected. Specifically, this operation supported structural reforms aimed at
enhancing equity in two critical policy areas, including fiscal reform and royalty distribution,
effectively enhancing the post-tax income distribution, the creation of formal jobs, and promoting
the growth convergence of poorer and richer departmental entities. While establishing a cause-
effect relationship would require in-depth analysis, the reforms supported under this operation
can be expected to be a contributing factor to the decline in monetary and multi-dimensional
poverty, as well as inequality observed between 2013 and 2014. For instance, the implementation
of the IMAN should reduce income inequality though higher taxation to top earners, while higher
local investment on infrastructure projects in poorer Departamentos and municipalities should
reduce monetary poverty through direct job creation in the construction sector (and indirect
employment in services). Moreover, the expansion of the non-contributory pension program
“Colombia Mayor” should reduce both the incidence and the severity of poverty of old-age
population through monetary transfers. Finally, the implementation of new monetary and multi-
dimensional poverty measurement methodologies enhanced the quality of information to
effectively monitor household welfare while enriching the process of assessment, design and
evaluation of social policies for vulnerable populations. Specifically, according to official
numbers published by the National Statistical Office, the percentage of the population
experiencing monetary and multi-dimensional poverty decreased from 30.6 and 24.8 percent in
2013 to 28.5 and 21.9 percent in 2014. Likewise, the Gini Inequality coefficient decreased from
0.539 to 0.538 during the same period (DANE, 2015).
Most of these expected impacts were duly documented as part of the Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment (PSIA) of the DPL, and background technical notes including a PSIA report on the
distributional effects of the tax reform.
 (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The operation also effectively supported expanded coverage and enhanced targeting of the main
social program benefiting older adults living in poverty and extreme poverty. Although the
operation’s actual impact on gender equality has been modest, it has served to move the policy
making process by making evident that current implementation arrangements for the provision of
services to victimized women are inadequate. The operation also had a substantial contribution
strengthening the governance of poverty measurement, thus, contributing to enhanced
transparency and quality. This, in turn, is expected to result in better design and implementation
of public policies, including those aimed poverty and social development. Finally, the operation
supported wider public dissemination of national financial information, both revenues and
expenditures.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
This operation, which introduced an innovative cross-sector focus on equity at the highest policy
development level, is being used as a model for Chile’s Programmatic Social Inclusion for Shared
Prosperity DPL series, which is now under preparation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable.




                                                22
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Moderate

Overall, the sustainability of the operation’s outcomes is considered to be Moderate. The
continuous commitment of the GoC toward enhancing equity is denoted by the importance
assigned to equity in the context of the 2014-2018 NDP, which includes of a target calling for a
decrease in the Gini coefficient from 0.54 to 0.52 between 2014 and 2018 (DNP, 2015). Overall,
it is important to underscore the long-term nature of the equity agenda in Colombia, which still
have high levels of income inequality, well above the Latin America and Caribbean regional
average.

There is also some variation in the level of risk in individual policy areas. Specifically, the risk to
development outcomes in three of the six policy areas (i.e., fiscal reform; expanded access to
financial information; and enhanced transparency in poverty measurement and monitoring) is
considered to be low to negligible. The risk to development outcomes in the remaining three
policy areas (i.e., territorial equity; gender equity; and social spending for older-adults) is
considered to be moderate. The main factors affecting sustainability can be summarized as
follows:

Policy Area 1: More Equitable Tax Policy and Administration
Low to negligible - The 2012 fiscal reform has already been successfully implemented and has
wide support, including from private sector. Due to Colombia’s relatively low tax-to-GDP ratio,
further fiscal reforms are required to increase revenues in order to create equity through social
transfers.

Policy Area 2: Inter-Regional Equity and Broadening Local Revenue Sources
Moderate – Severe oil price decline pose challenges to the SGR in the medium term. The SGR
Unit within the MHCP has conducted an exhaustive on the impact of the fall in oil prices, which
may represent up to a 30 percent decline in SGR revenues. This decline, however, is not expected
to affect the financing for investment projects under the SGR system for several reasons. First,
given that the pace of project approval and implementation was still picking up momentum, past
SGR allocations were not fully executed and can be reallocated for future years. Second, the
Stabilization Fund that was set up as part of the SGR reform has already accumulated some
reserves. Third, the MHCP has identified other sources that could be used to finance the SGR
investment fund (MHCP, 2015).

Policy Area 3: Equity in social Spending
Moderate – Budget allocations to the Colombia Mayor Program have not been sufficient to cover
the program’s expansion. This, in turn, has eroded the financial sustainability of the Pension
Solidarity Fund, (PSF) 14 which is used to finance both the Colombia Mayor Program and a
complementary pension subsidy program (Programa de Subsidio al Aporte en Pensión). The fact
that the PSF was declared a strategic policy under CONPES 2005 as well as the strong political
support for Colombia Mayor at all levels of government diminishes the risk of underfunding.
Another factor affecting the sustainability of social spending in Colombia is the recent decline in
international oil prices. Assuming the new level of oil prices stays at the current level next years,
and keeping all else constant, this may negatively impact overall spending across social programs
and translate into lower equity outcomes.

Policy Area 4: Gender Equity




14
  The Pension Solidarity Fund consists of two sub-accounts: the subsistence sub-account, which funds
the Colombia Mayor program, and the solidarity sub-account, which funds a complementary pension
subsidy program. The solidarity subaccount has been used to fill Colombia Mayor’s gap in funding,
experiencing a sustained decline.
                                                  23
Moderate – Project outcomes in terms of gender equity have been limited. Operationalizing the
provision of services mandated under Decree No. 2734/2012 is under discussion within the GoC.

Policy Area 5: Open Access to National Financial Management Information Systems
Low to negligible – The operation costs of the transparency Portal are relatively low and are
funded by the SIIF Nación budget. The GoC’s commitment toward open access to financial
information is high and likely to continue.

Policy Area 6: Monitoring of Poverty and Other Social Indicators
Low to negligible – Responsibility for poverty measurement has been assigned to DANE, which
has incorporated it as one of its regular functions. The sustainability of the new governance
mechanisms are supported under CONPES Social Resolutions No. 150 and No. 871 and DANE
Resolution No. 877.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
    Ranking: Highly Satisfactory
Overall, the operation was highly innovative, bringing equity issues to the forefront of policy
development. The Bank played a pro-active role in enabling the dialogue on poverty and equity,
as illustrated by the Bank’s role in facilitating Equity Day discussions that included top
government officials and Bank management. The Bank quickly responded to the demand for an
equity focused DPL with an operation that was well conceived and the objectives and policy areas
were clear and highly relevant to the Government’s reform strategy and the Bank’s CPS. Good
dialogue between Colombian authorities and the Bank during the preparation was critical to the
operation’s strong relevance. The operation’s design and implementation incorporated critical
lessons from previous DPL operations, including the importance of supporting preparation with
robust analytical work. Strong cross-support from different global practices within the Bank
during preparation was an important factor in ensuring that the operations equity perspective was
grounded in a relevant and robust sector agendas.

 (b) Quality of Supervision
     Ranking: Satisfactory
The project was well supervised, with a total of two field missions having been conducted during
the operation’s lifetime, maintaining good communication with DNP and MHCP. Sector and
CMU managers followed project implementation closely. During implementation, the operation
continued to benefit from robust analytical work focusing on the impact of the reforms supported
under the program. The Bank team continued to play an active role in the dialogue on equity and
poverty in the Colombia, with the TTL being a member of the Executive Committee on Multi-
Dimensional Poverty and also leading the Bank’s knowledge program in Colombia under the
Poverty and Equity Programmatic Approach (P13363).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
     Ranking: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory to reflect the highly satisfactory rating
for quality at entry and satisfactory rating for supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Ranking: Highly Satisfactory
The Government’s performance was Highly Satisfactory. The GoC exhibited strong political
leadership and a high level of commitment during preparation and implementation. This is not
                                                24
surprising, given that the development objectives supported under this operation are a top priority
for Colombian authorities and are firmly embedded in the NPD 2010-2014 and 2014-2018.

 (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
     Ranking: Satisfactory
Performance of the implementing agencies was Satisfactory, with DNP and MHCP effectively
coordinating actions in their respected spheres. Similarly, the DNP's Directorate of Evaluation of
Public Policies, which is responsible for the National Evaluation System of Management and
Results (SINERGIA), collected and reported to the Bank the information related to the
implementation progress of royalties, Colombia Mayor, and gender indicators. MHCP's
Department for Public Credit was responsible for collecting the necessary data to assess the
implementation progress for policy actions related to fiscal reform and SIFF and report it to the
Bank. In this regard, a closer collaboration between MHCP and DIAN would have been needed
to obtain data on the KPI for fiscal reform, which was never reported. DANE was responsible for
the annual online release of household survey micro-data for replicating poverty and other social
indicators.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
     Ranking: Satisfactory
Overall, the Borrowers’ performance is deemed satisfactory to reflect the highly satisfactory
rating for the Government’s performance and the satisfactory rating for implementing agencies’
performance.

6. Lessons Learned

This operation is a good illustration of the Bank’s ability to produce a cross-sectoral
response to a Borrower’s cross-sectoral demand. The Bank fully capitalized on a unique
window of opportunity that opened as a result of the high priority being given to equity by
Colombian authorities and the passage of critical reforms focusing on various dimensions of
equity. The cross-sectoral nature of the operation required the Bank to effectively draw upon the
technical specialists of several global practices to design and supervise a sound and highly
relevant cross-sectoral operation.

The Bank has an important role to play as a generator of knowledge. The Bank made an
important contribution to the dialogue on equity and poverty in Colombia with the robust
analytical work produced under the PSIA and the high-policy level discussions during the
Colombia Equity Day. This, in turn, has allowed the Bank to continue to play an active role in
key poverty and equity related forums beyond the operation’s lifetime, such as the executive
committee on multi-dimensional poverty.

Significant reforms such as that of the tax and royalty systems require a proportional level
of effort at preparation. In the case of this DPL, a significant effort was made by the Bank to
ensure the technical soundness of these reforms and their anticipated impact by conducting solid
analytical work during preparation and implementation. In turn, an operation’s evidence-based
policy design translates into a significant risk reduction.

Policy actions included in a DPL’s Policy Matrix may represent varying degrees of intensity
in terms of reform efforts and impacts. In the case of this DPL, the Policy Matrix included
structural reforms, such as tax and SGR reforms as well as less drastic—albeit important—
program-level actions. In cases such as this, it would be advisable to define ex-ante the relative
weight of the various policy actions to be able to reflect more adequately the operations’
achievements under the ICR evaluation.

The policy content of development policy lending operations must reflect the Borrower’s
priorities. In the case of this operation, the GoC had a strong ownership of the policies being
                                                25
supported, which, in turn, had emerged from a broad process of public consultation. The
Borrower’s strong ownership and commitment, coupled with significant institutional capacity,
were critical factors in the operation’s success.

The GoC recognizes that the equity agenda in Colombia is a longer term process. The re-
election of President Santos in 2014 emphasized the government’s commitment to promote new
reforms to boost equity and tackle poverty and inequality. Equity is an ambitious primary goal in
newly launched National Development Plan for 2014-2018. In this context, the GoC would
benefit from continued Bank support in the form of knowledge, financial and convening services.

Budget allocation does not guarantee effective implementation. The inability to implement
the budget allocated for service provision for women being the target of gender-based violence
illustrates the importance of ensuring that sound administrative and operational aspects are in
place in addition to financial resources.

Sound governance, including clear assignment of responsibilities across government
agencies, is critical for effective and sustainable M&E of poverty and equity dimensions. In
the case of this DPL, this is positively illustrated by the successful implementation of enhanced
governance mechanisms to ensure the soundness, transparency and replicability of poverty
measures. Conversely, the lack of an institutionalized M&E mechanism to measure the
distributive impact of the fiscal reform hampered its measurement.

Including explicit equity measures into government agencies’ regular M&E systems would
enhance their visibility. In view of the high priority given by the GoC to equity aspects in the
context of fiscal and SGR reforms, consideration should be given to the inclusion of equity-
focused indicators as part of DIAN’s and the SGR’s M&E systems.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
See Annex 4.
(b) Co-financiers
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable.




                                               26
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
  Antonio Cristian D'Amelj              Senior Counsel             LEGLE
     Jeannette Estupinan      Sr Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
  Luis-Felipe López-Calva              Lead Economist              GPVDR   Task Team Leader
                                                                            Co-Task Team
  Carlos Rodríguez Castelán           Senior Economist             GPVDR
                                                                                Leader
     Jessica Diane Terry              Poverty Specialist           GPVDR    Team Member
                                                                   GGODR    Co-Task Team
        Pedro Arizti            Senior Public Sector Specialist
                                                                                Leader
       Daniel Alvarez            Senior Public Sector Specialist   GGODR
      Fabiola Altimari                  Senior Counsel             LEGLE
       Arturo Antón                        Consultant              LCSPP
     Diomedes Berroa                    Lead Specialist            OPSOR
     Cristina Cifuentes                Program Assistant           GPVDR
       Barbara Cunha                   Senior Economist            GMFDR
     Tania Diaz-Bazan                      Consultant              GPVDR
      Ted Enamorado                        Consultant              GPVDR
      Bernarda Erazo                   Program Assistant           GPVDR
    Raul Felix Junquera           Lead Public Sector Specialist    GGODR
   German Galindo Rozo                     Consultant              GMFDR
      Samantha Lach                        Consultant              GPVDR
        Gabriel Lara                       Economist               GPVDR
     Xiomara A Morel          Sr Financial Management Specialist   GPVDR
       Miriam Muller                   Research Analyst            GPVDR
   Victor Ordoñez Conde                Sr Finance Officer          WFALN
  Mary Alexander Sharman         Junior Professional Associate     GPVDR
        Louise Cord                    Practice Manager            GPVDR    Team Advisor
    Wendy Cunningham                    Practice Leader            LCC1C    Team Advisor
  Samuel Freije-Rodriguez               Lead Economist             GPVDR    Team Advisor
       Arturo Herrera                  Practice Manager            GGODR    Team Advisor
        Alma Kanani                   Operations Advisor           LCROS    Team Advisor
       Jose A Cuesta                   Senior Economist            GPVDR     Peer Review
                                   Senior Social Development
      Maria B Orlando
                                           Specialist              GSURR     Peer Review
       Rossana Polastri                Senior Economist            GMFDR     Peer Review
Supervision
         Pedro Arizti           Senior Public Sector Specialist    GGODR
    Alan Fuchs Tarlovsky                 Economist                 GPVDR
   German Galindo Rozo                   Consultant                GPVDR
  Luis-Felipe Lopez- Calva             Lead Economist              GPVDR
  Carlos Rodriguez Castelän           Senior Economist             GPVDR   Task Team Leader
     Jessica Diane Terry              Poverty Specalist            GPVDR    Team Member
    Maria Arribas Banos                    Advisor                 GPVDR
       Cecilia Zanetta                   Consultant                GPVDR    ICR Preparation




                                            27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost
                                        (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage                                             USD
                          No. of staff weeks       (incl. travel and consultant
                                                               costs)
Lending
FY2013                                     16.83                    US$67,183
FY2014                                     14.57                    US$82,996
Total:                                                             US$150,179
Supervision / ICR
FY2014                                     15.64                    US$66,969
FY2015                                     16.73                   US$121,263
Total:                                                             US$188,232




                               28
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable.




                                      29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable.




                                        30
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                       31
32
33
34
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                         35
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Altimari, M. (2013), Official Documents - Loan Agreement for Loan 8287-CO (Closing
    Package), Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/09/18295682/official-documents--loan-
    agreement-loan-8287-co-closing-package
Antón, A. (2014), “The effect of payroll taxes on employment and wages under high labor
    informality,” IZA Journal of Labor & Development 2014, pp. 3:20.
    http://www.izajold.com/content/3/1/20
Consejería Presidencial para la Equidad de la Mujer (2015), Avances de la tolerancia social e
    institucional de las de las violencias contra las mujeres en Colombia, March 2015, Bogotá.
    http://www.equidadmujer.gov.co/oag/Documents/oag_boletin-19-marzo2015.pdf
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística - DANE (2015), Pobreza Monetaria y
    Mutidimensional en Colombia – 2014, Boletín Técnico, March 24, 2015,
Departamento Nacional de Planeación – DNP (2015a), Bases del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
    2014-2018 - All for a New Country: Peace, Equity and Education, Versión para el Congreso,
    Bogotá.
    https://colaboracion.dnp.gov.co/CDT/Prensa/PND%202014-2018%20Bases%20Final.pdf
Departamento Nacional de Planeación – DNP (2015b), Sistema de Monitoreo, Seguimiento,
    Control y Evaluación - Informe Acumulado Cuarto Trimestre de 2014, Departamento
    Nacional de Planeación, Dirección de Vigilancia de las Regalías, Bogotá.
     https://www.sgr.gov.co/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=Pl556Vcl-rk%3d&tabid=358
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (2011), Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2010-2014:
    Prosperidad para Todos – Más Empleo, Menos Pobreza, Más Seguridad, Tomo I, Bogotá.
    https://colaboracion.dnp.gov.co/CDT/PND/PND2010-2014%20Tomo%20I%20CD.pdf
Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales – DIAN (2014), Rendición de Cuentas Agosto
    2013-Julio 2014, Bogotá.
Fedesarrollo & Asociación de Gestión Humana (ACRIP) Bogotá y Cundinamarca, (2015),
    “Tendencias de largo plazo en el empleo Colombiano,” Informe Mensual del Mercado
    Laboral, Febrero 2015, Bogotá.
Fedesarrollo & Asociación de Gestión Humana (ACRIP) Bogotá y Cundinamarca, (2014),
    “Diagnóstico de los efectos de la reforma tributaria de 2012 en el mercado laboral,” Informe
    Mensual del Mercado Laboral, Septiembre 2014, Bogotá.
International Monetary Fund – IMF (2015), Colombia: Concluding Statement of the 2015 Article
    IV Mission, March 24, 2015, Washington, D.C.: IMF.
    https://www.imf.org/external/np/ms/2015/032415.htm
International Monetary Fund – IMF (2014), Colombia: 2014 Article IV Consultation—Staff
    Report; Press Release; and Statement by the Executive Director for Colombia, IMF Country
    Report No. 14/141, May 24, 2014, Washington, D.C.: IMF.
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público – MHCP (2015), Impacto de la caída de los precios del
    petróleo en los ingresos por Regalías, Unidad de Regalías, Unpublished Manuscript, MHCP,
    Bogotá.
Presidencia de la República (2014), Informe al Congreso, Juan Manuel Santos 2014, Secretaría
    de Prensa de la Presidencia, Bogotá.
    https://sinergia.dnp.gov.co/sinergia/Documentos/Informe_Senor_Presidente_al_Congreso_de
    _la_República_2014.pdf
Rodríguez-Castelán, C., López-Calva, F., and Enamorado, T. (2014), Research Note: Regional
    Convergence in Colombia and Prospective Impacts of the Reform of the Regalías System,
    Unpublished Manuscript, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.



                                              36
Rodríguez Castelán, C. (2014), Colombia - CO: Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote Shared
    Prosperity DPL: P145605 - Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 02,Washington,
    D.C.: World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2014/10/20303059/colombia-co-enhancing-
    fiscal-capacity-promote-shared-prosperity-dpl-p145605-implementation-status-results-report-
    sequence-02
Rodríguez Castelán, C. (2014), Colombia - CO: Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote Shared
    Prosperity DPL: P145605 - Implementation Status Results Report: Sequence 01,Washington,
    D.C.: World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2014/02/19096691/colombia-co-enhancing-
    fiscal-capacity-promote-shared-prosperity-dpl-p145605-implementation-status-results-report-
    sequence-01
Steiner, R. and Medellín, J.C. (2014), Perspectivas Fiscales 2014-2018 - Parte II:  Elementos
    para una nueva reforma tributaria, Cuadernos Fedesarrollo No. 52, Bogotá.
Steiner, R and Cañas, A. (2013), Tributación y Equidad en Colombia, Serie Documentos CEDE,
    2013-24, Bogotá.
World Bank (2014), Colombia’s 2012 Tax Reform - Poverty and Social Impact Analysis,
    Unpublished Manuscript, November 2014, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank (2013), Colombia: Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote Shared Prosperity
    Development Policy Loan – Project Document, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/08/18115648/columbia-enhancing-fiscal-
    capacity-promote-shared-prosperity-development-policy-loan
World Bank (2011), Colombia - Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period FY2012-
    2016, Report No. 60620-CO, June 12, 2011, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/06/14494030/colombia-country-
    partnership-strategy-cps-period-fy2012-2016

                        People consulted as part of the ICR Mission
 Ministry of Finance – MinHacienda
 Dra. Lina María Mondragón, Sub-Director, Financing with Multilateral Organizations and
 Governments
 Dr. Juan Carlos Thomas, Advisor, Directorate of Macroeconomic Policy
 David Morales, SIIF Director
 Aide Gómez, Advisor, Sub-Directorate, Financing with Multilateral Organizations and
 Governments
 José Iván Villa, Advisor, Sub-Directorate, Financing with Multilateral Organizations and
 Governments
 Andrés Trejos, Sub-Directorate, Financing with Multilateral Organizations and Governments
 National Planning Department – DNP
 Dra. Katya de Oro Genes, Sub-Director of Gender
 Carlos Gómez, Sub-Directorate of Gender
 Dr. Guillermo Rivas Mayorga, Consultant on poverty and targeting, Sub-Directorate of
 Social Development and Quality of Life
 Dr. Jorge Andres Rodriguez, Consultant, Sub-Directorate of Labor and Social Security
 Dra. Carolina Alexandra Herrera, Sub-Directorate of Territorial and Public Investments,
 Regalías Unit
 Dra. Melisa de la Ossa Otero, Consultant, Sub-Directorate of Territorial and Public
 Investments, Regalías Unit
 Julián Castro, Directorate of Credit
 Andrés Trejos, Sub-Directorate, Financing with Multilateral Organizations and Governments

                                              37
Ministry of Labor
Dra. Olga Lucía Callejas, Sub-Director, Non-Contributive Pensions
World Bank ICR Team
Carlos Rodriguez, Senior Economist, TTL
Maria Dolores Arribas, Advisor, World Bank Poverty Directorate
Jessica Terry, Operation Analyst, Poverty Directorate
Cecilia Zanetta, Consultant




                                           38
MAP




39
