    Enhancing Youth Skills and Economic Opportunities to Reduce Teenage Pregnancy in
                                       Colombia1




                                   World Bank Report No: 97822-CO
                                            June 25, 2015




1 This note has been prepared by Lea Gimenez (GPVDR), Sara Hause Van Wie (GPVDR), Miriam Muller (GPVDR),
Rebecca Schutte (GPVDR), Megan Zella Rounseville (GPVDR) and Martha Celmira Viveros Mendoza (GPVDR), under
the general guidance of Louise J. Cord (Sector Manager, LCSPP) and Wendy Cunningham (Program Leader, LCC1C). The
team would like to thank Carlos Rodriguez Castelan (GPVDR), Marta Favara (GPVDR), Lucia C. Hanmer (Lead
Economist, GCGDR), and Sarah Elizabeth Haddock (Operations Officer, GCGDR) for providing valuable comments that
helped us improve the note.

                                                       1
          “Fertility decisions should be the result of one’s deliberate choice rather than an outcome of one’s
          constraints and lack of economic, educational, and social opportunities.?
                                                                                      Azevedo et al. (2013).




     1. Introduction

The Government of Colombia (GoC) has identified teenage pregnancy as a priority issue.
The current strategic framework to address teenage pregnancy in Colombia is outlined in the
CONPES 147, effective from February 2012 until March 2014. The CONPES 147 establishes a
multi-sectoral framework that aims to address the determining factors of teenage pregnancy within
Colombia (Box 1). The national strategy outlined in the CONPES 147 was piloted in 192
municipalities for youth ages 10 through 19. Building on this strategy, the Commission for the
Guarantee of Sexual and Reproductive Rights is developing a new framework to guide the
government’s policy and activities to address this important policy issue in the coming years.

Parallel to its work on teenage pregnancy, the GoC released a national strategic framework
to generate opportunities for Colombian youth in July 2014. The CONPES 173 proposes
guidelines for generating opportunities for youth, ages 14 through 28 years, with specific emphasis on
the accumulation of human capital and adequate preparation and insertion into the labor market
(Box 1). Both strategies include significant components dedicated to the creation of life plans, and
the development of skills and opportunities necessary for young women and men to develop and
fulfill those plans.

Following a World Bank presentation of the results of a regional study (Teenage Pregnancy
and Opportunities in Latin America and the Caribbean, Azevedo et al. 2013) which places
strong emphasis on strengthening opportunities and agency for youth in the region,
representatives from the GoC within the National Planning Institute (DNP – Departamento
Nacional de Planeación) expressed interest in exploring possible links between the
CONPES 147 and 173. This note is prepared in response to this interest. It utilizes the conceptual
framework proposed in the World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development (2012) to argue
how critical life skills - cognitive, socio-emotional, technical and professional – can boost the agency
of young women and men in Colombia and, in turn, positively affect teenage pregnancy rates and
youth preparation for the labor market. The note includes an overview of the WDR 2012 gender
equality framework and World Bank regional study on teenage pregnancy; outlines the Colombian
country context with regard to gender equality and youth labor market outcomes; reviews
interventions that develop life skills; and highlights how these interventions might be relevant to the
GoC policies and programs related to teenage pregnancy prevention (CONPES 147) and youth labor
(CONPES 173).2


2 The recommendations put forth in this note are founded on the assumption that fertility decisions that are based on a
larger opportunity set and with a greater capacity to exercise agency will likely result in reduced pregnancy rates among
teenagers. Research clearly shows that greater access to sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services and improving
knowledge about SRH are vital to reducing rates of teenage pregnancy. The intension of the note is not to recommend that
skills interventions should be the sole focus of a teen pregnancy policy strategy, but rather see their inclusion as an
important part of the mix of other health, education, and gender norms policies of an effective national teen pregnancy
prevention strategy.



                                                           2
Box 1 – Overview: CONPES 147 and CONPES 173

CONPES 147

The CONPES 147 (2012) is national strategy to reduce teenage pregnancy rates in Colombia. The
rights-based, human development approach recognizes that the main risk factors and vulnerabilities
to adolescent pregnancy – which include, among others, poverty, substance abuse, early sexual debut,
barriers to education, absence of economic opportunity, and the presence of armed groups – may
result in different outcomes based on the ability or inability of individual young people to overcome
challenges. The multi-sectoral intervention seeks to mitigate vulnerabilities while expanding
protective factors, those which motivate and enable adolescents and young adults to construct life
plans and to strive to fulfill them. The CONPES 147 includes strategic objectives to improve quality,
youth-friendly health services and sexual education important for increased competencies and access
to sexual and reproductive health, but emphasizes the need to simultaneously expand opportunities
for youth (in and out of school) and strengthen non-cognitive and socio-emotional skills such as self-
esteem, identity, independence and autonomy, critical thinking, hard work, and the ability to
negotiate gendered social norms. While the CONPES 147 emphasizes the importance of expanded
opportunities for young women and men, it focuses almost exclusively on the endowments of health
and education, and excludes specific strategic components relative to economic opportunities
(aspirations, preparation for the labor market, employment, etc.).

CONPES 173

The CONPES 173 (2014) outlines a national strategy to create and strengthen labor market
opportunities for youth ages 14-28. Specific policy recommendations for adolescents (age 14-17)
who are not yet old enough to work legally in Colombia focus on human capital accumulation
through education and the support of school-to-work transitions. With regard to education, the
policy encourages efforts to increase the quality and relevance of education for youth and to mitigate
drop-out risks related to lack of access or resources. Additionally, CONPES 173 proposes integrated
actions to improve youth employability through vocational orientations for youth ages 14-17 that
would expose youth to a variety of career tracks; work practicums to enable them to gain experience
in the private sector; and socio-emotional skills training to promote professional behaviors and
competencies. The strategy also identifies actions to increase youth access to information about skills
and competencies required for various careers, and how and where they can obtain those
competencies. The CONPES 173 does not include an analysis or proposals for strategic entry points
for youth into the labor market in the short or long-term, nor does it include any gender-analysis
relative to differing knowledge or opportunity gaps for young women and men in Colombia.


    2. Theoretical Framework: Gender Equality and Development

According to the World Development Report 2012: Gender Equality and Development (WDR
2012), gender equality has both intrinsic and instrumental value for development. Gender-related
outcomes may be understood in the context of dynamic interactions between households, markets
and institutions, both formal and informal. Household decisions – number and spacing of children,
spending on health and education, etc. – are made based on the preferences, incentives and
constraints of family members, which are shaped by social norms, gender roles, and the structure and
function of labor markets and formal institutions.




                                                  3
The WDR 2012 framework (Figure 1) shows how economic growth, coupled with good policy-
making, can generate positive gender equality outcomes, which in turn, fuel further growth. The
framework also identifies three key dimensions of gender equality: the accumulation of endowments
in the form of education, health and physical assets; economic opportunities that result in income
generation, and agency. The WDR 2012 defines agency as “an individual’s (or group’s) ability to
make effective choices and to transform those choices into desired outcomes? (World Bank 2012,
pg. 150).

                          Figure 1: Gender Equality and Development Framework




Source: WDR 2012.

Market forces, expansion of service delivery institutions, and income growth have contributed to
narrowing gender gaps in education, fertility and labor market participation in many countries.
However, women do not always benefit from national policy or economic growth. Gender
inequalities can persist when relevant policies are rejected or blocked; when reinforcing constraints
stymie progress; or when agency (individual voice and household decision making) is limited.
Entrenched gender roles and social norms (informal institutions) that govern responsibility for care
and household work, “acceptable? work for men and women, and physical and sexual autonomy can
reinforce social and institutional barriers and perpetuate intergenerational gender gaps. For poor
women, and for women who face other factors of exclusion - ethnicity, remoteness, race, or disability
– gender gaps can remain even more sizeable.

In the case of Colombia, various indicators related to women’s economic opportunity and
endowments show dramatic improvement in the past decade. The annual growth rate of the
female to male participation ratio averaged 2.5 percent between 1990 and 2012; and female labor
force participation grew 23 percent between 2000 and 2010.3 Health indicators show that the share
of births attended by skilled health staff reached near universality4 in 2011; maternal mortality rates




3 World Bank, Poverty and Labor Brief 2012.
4 World Development Indicators (WDI). Share of births attended by skilled health staff was 99.3% in 2011, up from 86.4%
in 2000.

                                                          4
fell a dramatic 35 percent between 2000 and 2010; and contraceptive prevalence reached an all-time
high of 79 percent.5

However, persistent and significant gaps exist within all dimensions of the gender equality
in Colombia. In the accumulation of endowments, a slight gender gap in primary school enrollment
that favors boys reverses and widens at higher levels of education, significantly favoring girls. 6
Despite higher levels of educational attainment, Colombian women face a stubborn gender-wage gap
and higher levels of unemployment than men, limiting the quality of their economic opportunities.7
Both male and female youth face difficulties entering the labor market, and prolonged
unemployment creates critical setbacks in economic opportunity and earning capacities. Domestic
and unpaid care work remains the primary responsibility of women and girls, reducing their available
hours for paid productive work; and violence against women continues to threaten the rights,
security and health of many Colombian women and children. 8 Dramatic inequalities exist within
subnational data in every indicator, especially within low-income, low-education and rural
populations.

     3. Teenage Pregnancy: Facts and Implications

Within the Colombian context, reinforcing constraints – limited and gender-unequal
economic opportunities, exclusion from quality endowments among marginalized
populations, and social norms and gender roles that relegate unpaid care work to women
and tolerate violence against them (emotional, physical and sexual) - affect young women’s
choices and actions with respect to life plans and fertility decisions. Despite significant
progress since 2000, teenage pregnancy rates in Colombia still remain very high.9 According to the
National Demographic and Health Survey, nearly 20 percent of teenage girls in Colombia are or have
been pregnant; and 34 percent of teenage moms report they wanted to become mothers.10

The majority of teenage pregnancies remain unplanned, signaling a lack of opportunity and
agency for young girls. In Colombia, 66 percent of teenage mothers reported either not wanting a
child at the time (16 percent) or wanting a child at a later age (50 percent).11 A qualitative study
conducted in Ecuador shows that many teenage mothers do not have clearly defined life goals,
aspirations, or life plans before becoming pregnant (Azevedo et al. 2013). Several other qualitative
studies suggest that teenage mothers do not necessarily plan on getting pregnant, but they do not
avoid doing so – some lack the power to negotiate contraception with their partner; some are
ashamed to access contraception; some simply do not consider the risk of getting pregnant when
making decisions about whether to engage in sexual activity; and some demonstrate a lack of
‘capacity to aspire’ due to real and perceived opportunities for socio-economic advancement.12


5 WDI 2010. Maternal mortality (deaths per 100,000 live births) was 130 in 2000 and 85 in 2010. Contraceptive prevanlence
rate was 79.1 in 2010; world average, 50.7.
6 WDI 2012. Female to male primary enrollment ratio was 0.97 in 2012. Within secondary education the ratio reverses,

favoring girls, to 1.09. Tertiary education enrollment has highest gap, with female to male enrollment ratio of 1.13 in 2012.
7 DNP, Informe ODM 2013. Gender wage gap increased from 18.8% in 2008 to 23.3% in 2012. Female to male

unemployment ratio was 1.69 in 2012, which exceeds both UMI (1.46) and world (1.42) averages.
8 According to 2012 DHS survey, 38.6 percent of Colombian women (ages 15-49) have experienced physical violence by an

intimate partner within their lifetime, and 20.7 percent of them reported experiencing physical violence within the last 12
months. With regard to sexual violence, 11.8 percent of women reported sexual intimate partner violence in their lifetime,
and 6.9 percent within the last 12 months.
9 WDI 2012. Adolescent fertility in Colombia was 69 (births per 1,000 women ages 15-19) in 2012, almost equal to the high

LAC average (68.0 in 2012), but more than double the upper middle income country (UMC) average of 31.2.
10 ENDS 2010.
11 Ibid.
12 “…pregnancy seems to be often due to carelessness, ´something that happened´ which reflects a lack of control of

adolescents over their life projects. At the same time this indicates a certain lack of well-defined goals, aspirations and

                                                             5
Teenage mothers face lower educational outcomes throughout their lifetime. Background
papers for the Teenage Pregnancy and Opportunities in Latin America and the Caribbean study (hereafter:
Regional Study) found that teenage mothers are less likely to finish secondary education13 and have
reduced work hours (Kruger and Berthelon 2012; Arceo-Gomez and Campos Vazquez 2011). Early
disengagement from school is correlated with a higher likelihood of teenage pregnancy. According to
the Ministry of Education, more than 50 percent of Colombian students who have ever dropped out
of school did so because of becoming a mother or father.14 Teenage mothers may drop out of school
on account of their pregnancy, or they may drop out for other reasons and then be more likely to
become pregnant. A study in the U.S. found that pregnant teenagers not in school were 12 times
more likely to want to become pregnant than their female teenage counterparts in school (Bonnell et
al. 2005; Heavey et al. 2008).

Teenage mothers face greater health challenges and difficulties in their personal lives.
Teenage births come with higher risks of maternal mortality, fetal death, and infant mortality. 15
Teenage mothers are also more likely to be single heads of household, to get a divorce and to have
less chance of finding a quality life partner (Arceo-Gomez and Campos Vazquez 2011). Teenage
mothers have less personal and leisure time and participate in fewer social engagements with friends
and peers, which negatively impacted their well-being (Azevedo et al. 2013). Fathers of babies born
to teenage mothers reported a significant increase in economic pressure and responsibility.

The effects of teenage pregnancy are multigenerational: children of adolescent mothers are
more likely to partake in risky behaviors when they become adolescents and face lower
educational, and health outcomes (Azevedo et al. 2013; Hoffman 2008; National Campaign to
Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy 2013; Gueorguieva et al. 2001). Children of teenage mothers
are more likely to drop out of school, have lower educational outcomes, become a teenage parent
themselves, and suffer health problems. As an adult, they are more likely to be unemployed and have
lower economic outcomes (Hoffman 2008; National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned
Pregnancy 2013; Gueorguieva et al. 2001).

Teenage pregnancy can have negative effects on individuals and families, but also can result
in significant economic losses to society overall. For example, teenage pregnancy costs taxpayers
in the United States of America (U.S.) over $9 billion a year 16 (Hoffman 2006). In Brazil, if the
current cohort of 15-19 year old females had delayed pregnancy until their early 20s, the country
would have an estimated $3.5 billion more in economic productivity (Chaaban and Cunningham
2011).17

Negative outcomes associated with teenage pregnancy may be driven and/or exacerbated by
the absence or low quality of economic and educational opportunities available. Evidence
from public health literature shows that young women’s reproductive health decisions are often tied

clearly-framed life projects that they are decided to stand up for and defend. The significance of the capacity to aspire as a
means to increase one´s development outcomes has been highlighted by the work of Arjun Appadurai. Aspirations are
formed by ideas and beliefs about life, about conceptions about what one aims to achieve in life, and about the willingness
to take actions in order to achieve those goals.? (Azevedo et al. 2013)
13 Kruger and Berthelon (2012) uses nine rounds of Chilean household surveys (1990-2009) to analyze adolescent fertility as

a determinant of dropping out of high school. They find that teenage motherhood significantly reduces the probability of
high school completion (by 18-37 percent) and the effects are larger for poor and lower educated households. Results imply
targeting policies towards reducing teenage pregnancy will positively impact female youth educational outcomes, at least in
the shorter term.
14 Encuesta Nacional de Deserción Escolar (ENDE), implemented by the Ministry of Health in 2010.
15 WHO 2014; UNICEF/ECLAC 2007.
16 This figure reflects the cost of health and foster care, higher incarceration rates among children of teenage parents, and

the loss in tax revenue from teen mothers with lower educational and economic outcomes.
17 This study only considers economic impacts and does not take into account health or social impacts or the lower

productivity of a child of a teenage mother.

                                                              6
to their economic condition, with poverty being a significant risk factor for teen pregnancy (Azevedo
et al. 2013). Other determinants identified to increase the likelihood of teenage pregnancy include
race,18 a difficult family and/or housing situation, low aspirations, low educational outcomes, being a
victim of physical or sexual abuse, and instability in their life (Guttmacher Institute 1998).

Evidence from Colombia is consistent with public health literature on the drivers of teenage
pregnancy. Teenage pregnancy rates are highest among adolescent girls in the lowest two wealth
quintiles (30 and 27 percent, respectively, are their pregnant or already mothers). Education seems to
be an even more significant factor: in 2010, 55 percent of adolescent girls with no education and 49
percent of girls with primary education were pregnant or already mothers. 19 Multivariate analysis
from the baseline evaluation of the CONPES 147 (Box 2) shows strong and expected correlations
between conditions of poverty, living in rural areas, the household head’s education level, a mother
ever being pregnant in her adolescence, age of sexual initiation, and contraceptive usage.20


Box 2. Adolescent Pregnancy Decision Making: Preliminary Evidence from the CONPES
147 Baseline

The findings from the baseline impact evaluation report of the CONPES 147 prepared by
Econometria provide insight on the context faced by teens and the factors that may affect teen
pregnancy in 53 municipalities in Colombia with high rates of teen pregnancy.21 The report highlights
the importance of access to health services and quality education on SRH; but also explores the roles
that expectations for the future, gender norms, and employment status may play in affecting teen
pregnancy rates.

For the subsample of teens that were sexually active, the average age of sexual initiation was 14 for
males and 15 for females. Colombia’s laws identify fourteen as the age when sex can be consensual,
but six percent of all females and twelve percent of all males stated their sexual initiation began prior
to age fourteen. The average number of partners is much higher for sexually active males, 3.73, than
it is for sexually active females, 1.96.

Self-reported contraceptive usage (any method) for males is 60 percent and for females is 56 percent;
but usage varies among subsets of the youth population. Statistically significantly fewer rural females
(28 percent) use condoms than urban females (40 percent). Contraceptive usage in the first sexual
engagement was 60 percent for males and 54 percent for females. Gendered social norms appear to
be present with respect to perceived responsibility for obtaining contraceptives: when asked whether
their partner is responsible to obtain contraceptives, only 8 percent of males responded yes while 43
percent of females responded affirmatively.

SRH knowledge and access to quality SRH information is low in the sample. Adolescents desire
information about SRH: when asked how many teens had looked for information about sexuality at
least one time, 68 percent of male and 62 percent of female teens responded affirmatively. But only
10 percent of male and 12 percent of female teens say they know of places where they can talk about
sexuality. With respect to the use of SRH services, rates drop significantly - only 4 percent of male

18 A study in the U.S. found that pregnant Hispanic teenagers were twice as likely to have planned their pregnancy as
compared to pregnant African-American teenagers (Heavey et al. 2008). Another study in the U.S. state of California found
Hispanic teenagers far more likely to desire a pregnancy (Guttmacher Institute 1998).
19 ENDS 2010.
20 The multivariate analysis does not produce causal estimates of relationships.
21 The findings presented here are based on a single cross-section of data (sample size: 2,622; individuals between the ages

of 14 and 19) collected in 53 municipalities in Colombia that were flagged for prioritization because of their high rates of
teen pregnancy.

                                                             7
teens and 11 percent of female teens report unsatisfied demand for quality information and services.
When asked if teens know of a place where they can access free contraceptives, 19 percent of males
and 31 percent of females responded yes. Among these, 75 percent of males and 43 percent of
females attained contraceptives at a pharmacy.

Teen perceptions of the effects of teenage pregnancy conflict with research findings. When asked
about their ability to determine their future, most teens believed that what happened in the future
was out of their control and that pregnancy would not interfere with their life plans. Half the sample
also stated that being an adolescent parent would not decrease their potential future earnings, and
over half the sample thought that being an adolescent parent would not affect their life plans.

Among the sample, 5 percent of males and 14 percent of female teens reported that one of their
sexual relationships had resulted in a pregnancy. Econometria found that the probability of being
pregnant as a teenager is positively correlated with the following characteristics: poverty, rural, head
of the household did not complete secondary school, and mother was pregnant in her adolescence.
Their analysis also shows that age at first sexual relationship and use of condom during the first
sexual relationship was negatively correlated with teen pregnancy.

The analysis also shows that students whose studies were interrupted before the age of 14 had greater
probability of a teen pregnancy. Teens who reported having worked prior to age 14 also showed
higher rates of teen pregnancy (this could be a proxy for economic hardship in the household as well
as many other factors). The study does not explore the relationship between work for adolescents
ages 14 to 19 and their aspirations, future expectations and teen pregnancy; but could be important in
understanding the linkages between economic opportunities and teenage pregnancy rates in
Colombia.

Findings on SRH information are ambiguous. Econometria finds that receiving information on
sexual and reproductive rights and reproductive decisions prior to age 14 is positively correlated with
teen pregnancy, but that receiving information about pregnancy, maternity and paternity and
information about violence is negatively correlated with teen pregnancy. The authors caution readers
that this relationship could be driven by low quality information, but it also can be noted that teens
engaging in sexual behavior may be more likely to seek this information.

In summary, the descriptive statistics from the baseline data show low levels of access to SRH
services, potentially low quality knowledge and information about SRH, and low levels of
contraceptive usage. Teenage pregnancy is strongly correlated with conditions of poverty, living in
rural areas, household head’s education level, a mother ever being pregnant in her adolescence, age of
sexual initiation and contraceptive usage. Additional multivariate analysis is inconclusive in terms of
identifying consistent correlations between labor (currently working), expectations for the future,
aspirations, life plans, or SRH knowledge on teen pregnancy. The correlations observed in the
multivariate analysis are summarized in Table T4.


Attitudes and expectations about the future can influence the probability of teenage
pregnancy (Plotnick 1992, 1993, 2007). When young women are poor and face a lack of
opportunities, early childbearing is often seen as a rational, viable choice, and in certain
circumstances positive choice, reducing the incentives to avoid an early pregnancy (Azevedo et al.
2013; Cater and Coleman 2006; Perez Then et al. 2011).22


22 Global qualitative studies have shown that motivations and reasons for a young person to plan a pregnancy in
adolescence include an idealization of motherhood, the desire to love and be loved, an effort to solidify or formalize a
relationship, and to create a loving family when they did not have one of their own (Cater and Coleman 2006). Many

                                                           8
Through the CONPES 147 on Teenage Pregnancy, the GOC sought to create a
comprehensive policy through which interacting and reinforcing drivers of teenage
pregnancy could be addressed. The policy seeks to address these constraints on an institutional,
community, family and individual level. The policy recommends institutional improvements in
endowments; and recommends that ministries of health and education strengthen and expand access
to information and services on sexual and reproductive health and to improve educational
opportunities for both in and out-of-school youth (flex education models, dropout alert systems;
literacy and employability programs). It also identifies the need for community-level justice and
security personnel to respond to cases of abuse, particularly for those pregnant before the age of 14.
Advocates at the local level – teachers, community leaders, health professionals, etc. – address
community-level constraints created by a distrust and misperception of youth, and transform social
norms pertinent to gender relations. Finally, the policy recognizes the role of individual youth who
ultimately are able or unable to overcome economic, cultural or situational constraints facing them.
In order to support these young men and women, the policy aims to increase the agency of youth
through non-cognitive and socio-emotional skills development and through the articulation and
pursuit of life plans.

The concurrent development of CONPES Juventud and the continuation of CONPES 147
provide a unique opportunity to exploit synergies between the next Teenage Pregnancy
Prevention Strategy (currently under development) with youth labor policy. Both strategies
include significant components dedicated to the creation of life plans, and the development of skills
and opportunities necessary for young women and men to develop and fulfill those plans. Both
strategies seek to relieve the constraints of Colombian youth to education and socio-economic
opportunities, and to enable them to develop and pursue meaningful life plans. However, while the
CONPES 147 identifies the importance of expanding opportunities for youth, it focuses primarily on
educational opportunities and largely ignores the importance of economic opportunity. The human
rights and human development approach could be strengthened through inclusion of tangible,
market-related opportunity creation or skills development specific to success in the labor market, the
explicit aim of the CONPES 173.

    4. Labor Opportunities: Building Blocks of Aspirations23

The WDR 2012 framework considers economic opportunity a key pillar to gender equality that can
have immediate and multi-generational impacts on individuals, families, communities and national
economies. Economic opportunity can increase an individual’s agency by expanding their life
choices, increasing their capacity to better support themselves and their families, and participate more
actively in their communities and nations (World Bank 2014).

Economic growth in Colombia, partnered with targeted cash transfers, led to a decrease in extreme
poverty rates from 17.7 percent to 9.1 percent between 2002 and 2013; with the poorest 40 percent
of the population experiencing faster income growth (6.5 percent) as compared to the national
average (4.1 percent).24 Within the same period, national unemployment rates decreased from 15.6
percent (2002) to 9.6% (2013). Energy sector expansion, coupled with rising commodity prices,
drove economic growth and ignited a shift in employment from tradable sectors (agriculture and


cultures view pregnancy and motherhood positively regardless of whether it takes place in adolescence; and motherhood in
some contexts may increase a woman’s social status or mark an entrance into adulthood (UNFPA 2013, Perez Then et al.
2011).
23 Unless otherwise stated, the labor market indicators presented in this section were computed based on the Gran

Encuesta Integrada de Hogares (GEIH) data covering the 2008 to 2013 period. For details on the construction of these
indicators, please refer to the Data Annex.
24 World Bank, Colombia Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD) Concept Note, 2014.



                                                           9
manufacturing) to service sectors (finance and commerce).25 Women’s increased participation in the
labor market was instrumental in reducing poverty in Colombia as more low-income women entered
the labor force relative to high-income women.26 However, wages and unemployment rates show a
gender gap unfavorable to women and youth continue to face significant barriers to entering the
labor market.

Economic opportunities (both real and perceived) are different for young men and women
due to gendered responsibilities in the household, varying access to social networks and the
labor market, and gender-based violence that affects their ability to consider and seek job
opportunities. Societal norms often dictate what is viewed as appropriate work and behavior for
men and women, affecting the labor options and choices of male and female youth. In many places,
adolescence for boys can bring increased independence and autonomy, but can impose restrictions
on personal independence and freedom for girls (World Bank, The Adolescent Girls’ Initiative website).
Young women may take on more domestic and care work within the family, which can isolate them
and limit their ability to build networks; young men, on the other hand, may be encouraged to pursue
employment and leisure outside of the home, and consider their role as future breadwinners for their
families. In some societies, socially acceptable norms may include early marriage and childbearing,
sexual abuse and violence, among others, all of which can have adverse effects on young females
(UNFPA 2013; World Bank 2012).

Youth labor is characterized by high levels of unemployment and informality. According to
the GEIH 2013, the unemployment rate among males and females ages 15-18 and 19-24 is around
double the rate of the general working age population. A high percentage of youth work in the
informal sector: for youth ages 15 to 18, informality rates exceed 80 percent (GEIH 2013). Not
surprisingly, youth have lower coverage in social security and benefits: only 33.6 percent of youth
ages 18 to 21 have health care and only 19.7 percent have pensions (CONPES 173).

Work prior to the age of 18 is discouraged in order to protect the rights of children; and youth
policies, including the CONPES 173, emphasize the accumulation of human capital in
education.27 When dividing the youth ages 15-18 into fours mutually exclusive groups, the following
statistics arise: 22 (12) percent of females (males) are neither in school nor employed; 63 (55) percent
of females (males) are in school and not employed; 7 (13) percent of females (males) are employed
and in school and 8 (20) percent of females (males) are employed and not in school.28 In spite of the
law, at 15 (33) percent for females (males) the proportion of employed youth ages 15-18 remains
high, particularly for young males.

Colombian women (ages 10 and higher) work more hours than their male counterparts and
spend a higher proportion of their time in unpaid work (GEIH 2013). Gendered care work
likely affects their ability to participate in the labor force: statistical data shows that twice the number
of males ages 15-18 are employed as compared to females (32 percent vs. 17 percent); and this
difference carries into the next age bracket (ages 19-24) (71 percent vs. 46 percent). According to
GEIH data, Colombian men spent 61.6 hours per week in both paid and unpaid work, while women
spent 72.4 hours, a gap of 10.8 hours. With respect to unpaid work, men worked 13.1 unremunerated
hours per week on average, compared to 32.0 hours for women, a difference of 18.9 hours. The vast
majority, 92.4 percent, of unpaid work was household labor and care work (children and the elderly).

25 World Bank 2014.
26 World Bank, Poverty and Labor Brief, 2012.
27 According to Colombian law, youth may enter the labor market after 15 years of age, but those ages 15 to 17 years

require special permission from the Labor Inspector or the local territorial entity (Ley 1096 de 2006, Art. 35).
28 LAC Equity Lab tabulations of SEDLAC (CEDLAS and the World Bank), based on the methodology of “Out of School

and Out of Work: A Diagnostic of Ninis in Latin America", work in progress by De Hoyos, Popova, and Rogers (World
Bank).

                                                        10
Even as women attain higher levels of education, wages continue to be higher among man at
all education levels. Between 2008 and 2013, the hourly wage gap by education between males and
females have remained, overall, remarkably stable, favoring males at all education levels (primary to
tertiary education).

Figure 1: Male/Female Hourly Wage Gap by Education Level – 2008-2013
   2600

   2100

   1600

   1100

    600

    100
                    1                  2                3        4              5               6
   -400
              Average Hourly Wage                                Basic primary (1st to 5th grade)
              Basic Secondary (6th to 9th grade)                 Mid-level (10th to 11th)
              Tertiary

Source: Gran Encuesta Integrada de Hogares 2008-2013.



Labor market indicators suggest that barriers and challenges facing young women when
entering and remaining active within the Colombian labor market are different from those
faced by their male counterparts. Females lag behind their male peers in every labor indicator –
labor force participation, wages, unemployment, unpaid work. These findings suggest strongly the
need to implement policies with a gender focus as a way of overcoming these gendered inequalities in
the labor market (see Box 3).

Box 3: Addressing gender inequalities in the labor market

Gender disaggregated labor data presented in this note, while not exhaustive, reveals a clear and
persistent disadvantage for young women in labor markets. Addressing gender inequalities in the
labor market might require additional support for young women preparing for formal work. Further
research, could identify gender-specific barriers and challenges facing youth (in school, out of school,
vulnerable) and form a basis for gender-informed policy and program design. The following are
potential considerations for policy and initiatives supporting young women’s preparation and
integration into the labor force.

Labor Market Segregation – Social norms often dictate what types of jobs are appropriate (or not)
for men and women. Youth should be encouraged to pursue work according to their capabilities,
aspirations, and income potential. The pursuit of non-traditional work may require targeted support
and encouragement to young women that will boost their agency and prepare them for specific
challenges (sexual harassment, gender discrimination, discouragement from friends and family, etc.)
they might face in male-dominated sectors.

Private Sector Sensitization: Especially in cases where young women are pursuing fields that have
typically been dominated by men, employers and employees may need sensitization on gender-

                                                            11
specific issues – discrimination, harassment – but also on potential benefits for diversifying their
workforce.

Addressing labor market barriers for young women should not come at the expense of young
men. The barriers and challenges facing male and female youth in labor markets are different; and it
is crucial to research and understand these differences before designing any type of policy or specific
activities to address them.



The CONPES 173 on Colombian Youth recognizes that youth (ages 14-28) enter the labor
market under unfavorable conditions due to barriers to the accumulation of human capital,
and emphasizes the importance of formal education as a solution for youth employability
and labor market preparation.29 For in-school youth, the strategy advocates for increased quality
of education and the mitigation of drop-outs (through monitoring, special programs and middle to
high school transition support). It proposes supporting youth development of life plans through
increasing access to information about relevant career options; enabling youth to acquire the skills
necessary for different types of work; and providing the opportunity to develop marketable skills
(work practicums, certification opportunities) relevant to those career options within the school
environment. The strategy identifies the need for formal systems of information that provides youth
from all socio-economic groups access to information on where to obtain work; and argues for the
creation of political instruments that bolster legal protections relative to the type of work, locations
and intensity of hours for youth workers. For unemployed, out of school youth, the CONPES
recommends employability programs that include relevant socio-emotional and technical skills
relevant to the Colombian labor market.

A stronger gender-based approach that exploits possible synergies with the CONPES 147
could help strengthen the impact of the Colombian Youth strategy. For instance, the CONPES
173 does not include an analysis on strategic opportunities (short or long-term) within the
Colombian labor market for youth, nor does it propose gender-specific solutions to labor market
preparation for youth. However, key components within the strategy, namely, the opportunity for
youth to development marketable skills within the context of their life plans, and the provision of
cognitive and socio-emotional skills in technical training centers provide important opportunities for
exploiting synergies with the CONPES 147 on teenage pregnancy.

       5. Cognitive and Socio-Emotional Skill Development – Evidence from successful
          programs around the world

A growing body of evidence suggests that boosting higher-order cognitive and socio-
emotional skills in youth can have positive impacts on education, health, and labor market
outcomes in the short and long term (World Bank 2013; UNFPA 2013; Advocates for Youth
2008; Lonczak et al. 2002; Ibarraran et al. 2012; Bandiera et al. 2012; Cunningham and Villaseñor
2014). Cognitive and socio-emotional skills are beneficial for all age groups; but cannot be learned at
any age, and require a progressive acquisition based on developmental capacity (Guerra et al. 2014).
If developed and reinforced in adolescence and young adulthood, these skills can greatly influence
young men and women’s development and professional success (Borghans et al. 2008, Guerra et al.
2014).

Cunningham and Villaseñor (2014) propose four key skill sets – basic cognitive, higher-order
cognitive, technical and socio-emotional skills – necessary for youth, especially within in the

29   CONPES 173

                                                  12
context of labor market. Cognitive skills, as defined by the American Psychological Association
(APA), include the “ability to understand complex ideas, to adapt effectively to the environment, to
learn from experience, to engage in various forms of reasoning, to overcome obstacles by taking
thought? (Neisser et al. 1996). Basic cognitive skills form foundational academic knowledge and
include literacy and math skills; while higher-order cognitive skills build on these basic
competencies, and include skills relative to more complex information processing – critical thinking,
decision-making, organization, efficiency, problem solving, written and oral communications, and
strategic management (Cunningham and Villaseñor 2014). Technical skills, a subset of cognitive
skills, pertain to an individual’s knowledge and ability to complete work-related tasks, such as the
ability to change the oil in a car, the knowledge of Java or C++ to program a computer, or the
capacity to operate heavy machinery (Almlund et al. 2011). Socio-emotional skills include
behaviors, attitudes and traits that determine how we approach and complete different situations or
tasks. Termed “non-cognitive? by economists and sometimes labeled “psychosocial? or “soft skills?
by development practitioners, socio-emotional skills include, among many others, motivation,
punctuality, self-confidence, grit, conscientiousness, dependability, and leadership.

Higher-order cognitive and socio-emotional skills training can increase individual agency by
equipping youth with skills to identify effective choices and transform those choices into
desired life outcomes. Higher-order cognitive skills training can provide youth with the tools to
better understand their environment, think more deliberately about their future, and learn how to
pursue specific paths to achieve their new goals (i.e. avoiding risky behaviors, building self-esteem,
making good decisions, etc.). Socio-emotional skills such as self-control, grit, self-efficacy, and
sociability (among others) can equip them with the behaviors, attitudes and traits to help them fulfill
positive life goals relative to academic achievement, sexual and reproductive health and labor market
outcomes (Heckman et al. 2006; WHO 1999, Guerra et al. 2014). Research suggests that cognitive
skills, while important, are not sufficient for economic success; and higher wages and greater
employability are associated with higher levels of socio-emotional skills (Duncan and Dunifon 1998;
Heckman et al. 2006; Judge and Hurst 2007, Guerra et al. 2014).

Higher-order cognitive and socio-emotional skill development can level the field of
opportunities for young men and women by equipping them to think critically about social
and gender norms and to avoid behaviors that perpetuate gender inequalities. Research
suggests that young people with more gender-equitable attitudes have better sexual health outcomes
than their peers (Azevedo et al. 2013, World Bank, Adolescent Girls Initiative). Men who ascribe to
hegemonic notions of masculinity are less likely to use condoms or other contraceptives, and more
likely to perpetrate violence against their intimate partners and/or have multiple sex partners
(International Sexuality and HIV Curriculum Working Group 2009). Men with more gender-
equitable attitudes were less likely to perpetrate sexual violence, and more likely to more likely to be
happy, to have been tested for HIV, to talk to their partners and to have better sex lives. (ICRW and
Promundo, 2011). In some contexts, social definitions of femininity that center on motherhood can
influence the aspirations of young women; but socio-emotional skills that enhance individual and
group agency and create alternate notions of feminine identity (Presler-Marshall and Jones 2012).

Many youth, especially vulnerable youth, are not often exposed to higher-order cognitive or
socio-emotional skills at home or from their peers; and are less likely to develop them on
their own, putting them at a disadvantage in the labor market (Lasida and Rodriguez 2006).
Guerra, Modecki and Cunningham (2014) argue that basic cognitive, higher-order cognitive and
socio-emotional skills are learned in progression. They identify optimal periods for investment in the
acquisition of specific skills – problem solving, resilience, achievement motivation, control,
teamwork, initiative, confidence and ethics – and argue that the optimal stage for the development of
these skills is middle-childhood (ages 6 to 11), with the primary school being a critical venue for skill
acquisition. Studies have shown that many programs that include a combination of

                                                   13
interventions including non-cognitive and socio-emotional skills, sexual and reproductive
health information, academic support, and technical training can improve development
outcomes for youth (Ball and Moore 2008; Rosenthal 2009; Bandiera et al. 2012; Ibarraran et al.
2012; Adoho et al. 2014). Examples of comprehensive and multi-faceted programs have been shown
to not only reduce teenage pregnancy rates, but also reduce instance of other risky behaviors such as
drug and/or alcohol abuse, violent and/or criminal behavior and dropping out of school. However,
the evidence suggest that the “right? combination of intervention is context dependent and further
research is needed to better understand the specific ways in which specific skills can improve labor
outcomes for youth (Guerra, Modecki, and Cunningham 2014).30

The following case studies highlight programs that incorporated life skills training and had positive
impacts on reducing teenage pregnancy. These studies are by no means exhaustive. 31,32

          1) GUATEMALA CASE STUDY: Abriendo Oportunidades

 In Guatemala, Mayan girls are marginalized and achieve much lower health, human development,
and economic outcomes over their lifetimes compared to non-indigenous girls. 33 They often get
married at a young age and drop out of school. As an attempt to reverse these trends, girls’ clubs
established in safe spaces within their communities allowed girls to make friends and foster a support
network while receiving higher-order cognitive skills, socio-emotional skills 34 and information on
sexual and reproductive health (UNFPA 2013; Catino et al. 2011).

Beginning in 2004, the Population Council of Guatemala implemented a project called
Creating Opportunities (Abriendo Oportunidades), which aimed to support Mayan girls
(ages 8-18) through adolescence. The Abriendo Oportunidades program trains girls to run
community-based girls’ clubs. Girls are divided into two age cohorts (ages 8-12 and 13-18) to better
support participants with age-appropriate and relevant information. Each year new girls are selected
and trained to lead the girls’ clubs providing peer-to-peer training through workshops on self-esteem,
life skills, developing aspirations and planning for the future, sexual and reproductive health, and
HIV/AIDS prevention. Together with their mothers, participants are supported by the Guatemalan
Indigenous girls Resource and Empowerment Network (GIGREN), which is a platform through
which they can advocate at the community and national level. (Catino et al. 2011)

A qualitative evaluation 35 showed that the overall impact of Abriendo Oportunidades on
girls’ self-esteem, was very positive (Catino et al. 2011). Girls’ access to positive role models in
their own communities increased, and qualitative evidence shows that community attitudes about
girls’ social status and involvement in public activities have become more positive and supportive.
Interviews with program participants attribute changes in intra household dynamics to participation
in the program, which have led to more equitable treatment between male and female siblings,
especially with regard to school attendance and freedom of movement.

30 Several important evaluations on this topic are underway; for example: the Haiti Adolescent Girls’ Initiative (World
Bank), Economic Empowerment of Adolescent Girls and Young Women in Liberia (World Bank), and Empowering Girls
in Rural Bangladesh (J-PAL), among others. These evaluations will continue to shed light on the best skills to focus on
along with the most successful delivery methods.
31 In the process of selecting the case studies to be included in this note, the team first undertook a comprehensive search

of programs and selected for inclusion those that included teenage pregnancy outcomes as a part of the program’s review
and evaluation.
32 Tables T1, T2 and T3 in the Table Annex summarize these programs’ characteristics, components, outcomes and results.
33 For instance, indigenous women in Guatemala ages 15 and older have 2.5 years of education on average, as compared to

5.7 years for non-indigenous women. Literacy rates for indigenous women are considerably worse than their non-
indigenous counterparts: 48.3 percent versus 80.5 percent (Escobar 2011).
34 Project documents use a broader term “life-skills.?
35 The methodology of the qualitative evaluation is unknown, as it was not discussed in Catino et al. 2011.



                                                            14
Girls also reported having more autonomy and mobility as they are able to travel to local girls’ group
locations. The qualitative study also identified that participants gained “more future-oriented outlook
and are able to articulate more ambitious goals for themselves, such as delaying marriage, returning to
school, and striving to start a small business.?

          2) U.S. CASE STUDY: Seattle Social Development Project

The Seattle Social Development Project works with elementary school students (grades 1-6)
to develop skills for participation in school and family and promote school attachment.
Teachers are taught to foster an interactive and cooperative classroom environment through
proactive classroom management. Parents received training in behavior management, providing
academic support and specific skills to reduce risks for drug use. The socio-emotional skills
curriculum for students emphasized building interpersonal problem-solving skills and refusal skills.
The program was designed under the hypothesis that if families and schools provide youth with
opportunities for active and contributive environment that creates participation skills for children,
they will develop strong bonds with school and family and in turn these bonds will protect youth
against socially unacceptable behaviors. (Lonczak et al. 2012; Hawkins et al. 1999)

Results of an evaluation36 showed that the project helped prevent risky sexual behaviors and negative
health impacts for participants several years later (Advocates for Youth 2008; Lonczak et al. 2002).
For instance, at the age of 21, only 38 percent of female participants reported they had ever been
pregnant versus 56 percent in the comparison group. Also, only 23 percent of participants had given
birth versus 40 percent in the comparison group. There was no difference in the percentage of males
who had fathered a child between groups.

The social development approach that boosted socio-emotional skills not only reduced the
incidence of teenage pregnancy, but also improved condom use, increased educational
outcomes, and decreased risky behaviors. Program participants reported a lower number of
sexual partners by the age of 21: 43 percent of youth in the comparison group said they had 6 or
more sexual partners, but only 32 percent of participants had engaged in the same behavior. Results
were very strong for African-American participants with regards to condom use - half of African-
American participants reported using a condom at every sexual encounter versus only 12 percent in
the comparison group. Among African-Americans in the sample, 79 percent of program participants
reported using a condom during their last sexual encounter as compared to 36 percent in the
comparison group. Condom use at the last sexual encounter was also greater for program
participants overall (60 percent vs. 44 percent). Participation in the project was also found to increase
educational outcomes and reduced incidence of bad behavior such as violent and/or criminal acts
and alcohol abuse. The researchers found that the design of this social development program, which
promoted academic success, fostered attachment to school, and improved social skills at a young age,
could help prevent risky behavior and negative sexual health outcomes throughout teenage years and
into young adulthood.

          3) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC CASE STUDY: Juventud y Empleo Project

Juventud y Empleo (JE) is a government-sponsored training program to increase labor
market outcomes for disadvantaged youth (ages 16 to 29) without a high school education.

36Lonczak et al. 2002 performed a follow-up study of sexual behavior at age 21 for the treatment (144 participants) and
control group (205 non-participants). The evaluation design was a non-randomized control trail with long-term follow-up.
No significant differences were found between the “full? treated and control groups along gender distribution, race
distribution (white vs nonwhite), poverty (free lunch eligibility during grades 5, 6, or 7), proportion from single-parent
homes (during grade 5), mean years of parents’ education (during grade 5), mean years living in Seattle (by grade 6), or mean
number of residences lived in (from age 5 to 14 years).,

                                                             15
The program includes 75 hours of skills training combined with 150 hours of technical and
vocational training. After completing all 225 hours, participants complete a 3-month internship in a
private sector firm.

The skills curriculum aims to boost self-esteem and expectations by emphasizing good
professional habits and planning for the future. It specifically includes: cognitive skills to improve
math and communication ability, higher-order cognitive skills 37 to improve decision making in the
workplace, teamwork, efficiency, and finding and maintaining quality employment; and socio-emotional
skills to better manage social relationships and prevent conflict. The vocational component
developed technical skills in a job of the participant’s choice – including secretary, baker, hair stylist,
and auto mechanic, among others.

A randomized impact evaluation 38 (Ibarraran et al. 2012) captured the results from 5,000
individuals (out of 10,309 participants) and surveyed them 18-24 months after the project
ended. The goal of the evaluation was to assess the impact of JE on longer-term labor market
outcomes along with any changes in lifestyle, behavior, or expectations. The economic-related results
showed that JE had very minimal impact on improving employment rates except for a 17 percent
increase in job formality 39 for men. Also, for those employed, monthly earnings increased by an
average of 7 percent. Results in the non-labor indicators were more promising. Participation in JE
decreased the adolescent fertility rate by 2 percentage points on average. The most significant effect
was for 16-19 year olds who saw a decrease in adolescent fertility by 6 percentage points – a 48
percent decrease overall for this cohort. Overall levels of optimism and future expectations were also
positively impacted by participation and these impacts were stronger for females and the younger
members of the cohort.

Novella and Ripani (forthcoming) explore the mechanism through which the JE program
affected teen pregnancy. They show evidence that supports that the impacts on teen pregnancy
were driven by the positive effects of the JE program on socio-emotional skills (measured by the
Social and Personal Competencies (CPS) scale and the Grit Scale) and expectations rather than an
incapacitation effect (decreases in leisure time or time allocation changes).

          4) U.S. CASE STUDY: Teen Outreach Program (TOP)

TOP is a high school level40 teenage pregnancy and school dropout prevention program. It is
targeted towards students at high-risk for dropping out or for teenage mothering/fathering.
It has three components that are implemented over a nine-month timeframe - community service to
empower youth to succeed, classroom discussions about their volunteer experience, and socio-
emotional skills development. 41 The curriculum covers the topics of values, human growth and
development, relationships, coping with family stress, along with other social and emotional issues
associated with the transition from adolescence into adulthood. Students were encouraged to
“discuss their feelings and attitudes about important developmental decisions including handling
close friendships and romantic relationships, new academic and employment challenges.? Although
the goals of the project are to reduce teenage pregnancy and school dropout rates, TOP only
addresses these issues directly in 10-15 percent of the curriculum.


37 Project information documents use the term “professional skills.?
38 The evaluation carried out was a randomized control trial. Effects are estimated using intention-to-treat, IV for treatment
assignment, due to 20% attrition rates.
39 A job is considered formal if it provides health insurance or issues a written contract.
40 The program was also tested among middle school students but it was not as effective as it was for high school students

at high-risk for teenage pregnancy or dropping out of school.
41 Project information documents include the term “life skills.?



                                                             16
Evaluations 42 show that participants in TOP had fewer incidence of risky behavior like
failing classes, suspension, dropping out of school and teenage pregnancy (Frost and Forrest
1995; Allen 2001; Allen et al. 1997; Advocates for Youth 2008). According to the most recent
evaluation from a replication effort, participants in TOP had half 43 the risk of pregnancy of the
comparison group (Allen 2001). Participants who were already mothers or fathers showed one-fifth
the risk of a repeat pregnancy as compared to the control group. The risk of failing classes was 60
percent less likely for TOP participants; and suspension rates were 52 percent lower (Allen 2001).

Researchers concluded that teenage pregnancy and school dropout rates were reduced by
empowering participants’ decision-making abilities, improving social interactions, and
learning how to manage emotions through life skills trainings. The power of using socio-
emotional skills training as a tool to reduce teenage pregnancy and other risky behaviors is validated
here, especially since the curriculum included only 10-15 percent of direct lessons on sexual and
reproductive health and the consequences of leaving school early. Students were empowered by the
lessons they learned on coping with the transition from adolescence into adulthood. The results have
especially important implications for communities and sub-groups where directly addressing sexual
and reproductive health issues with youth may be taboo.

The program conducted cost analysis estimating that the program cost between $500 and $700 per
student per year; but in cases where facilitator time was covered, in-kind costs dropped to less than
$100 per student.

             5) U.S. CASE STUDY: Greater New Britain Teen Pregnancy Prevention’s Pathways/
             Senderos Center

The Greater New Britain Teen Pregnancy Prevention’s Pathways/Senderos Center in
Connecticut (USA) combines several types of interventions. This project promotes youth
development for poor Latino middle and high school students (ages 11 to 18) and aims to reduce
teenage pregnancy. Each year, 50 students (age 11) self-select into the program with the expectation
of their participation in daily interactions over 7 years. Staff supports participants around the clock
throughout the seven-year program. Project components include: 1) education on family life, sex, and
health; 2) academic support though tutoring and school monitoring; 3) career and vocational
preparation; 4) creative expression; 5) recreation; and 6) physical and mental health care referrals.

An evaluation44 (Rosenthal et al. 2009) for one cohort of 50 participants from 1997 to 2003
showed positive results in a number of outcome areas. The evaluation showed that the
participant group had a rate of 54.1 teenage births per 1000 females as compared to the local average
rate of 94.1 teenage births per 1000 females. All participants graduated from high school on time,
nearly 60 percent attended a four-year college (compared to 35 percent in the local average), and 14
percent graduated from college. Unfortunately, the evaluation did not include an assessment of
economic or labor market impacts from the project.

Results also indicate that some projects are expensive up front, but that costs outweigh long-
term societal gains. The evaluation included a cost-benefit analysis which showed that during the 7

42 Several evaluations were conducted employing different methodologies. Allen 2001 compares a treatment and control
group of which only 20% is randomly assigned. He includes additional subject that are hand selected by guidance
counselors to have similar socio demographic characteristics, to provide the study with more power.
43 Findings are presented as odds ratios. Coefficients on treatment when controlling for socio-demographic characteristics

is are: pregnancies -.17, course failures -.14, suspensions -.18, all of which are statistically significant at the 1% level.
44 Comparison group constructed using administrative data and census data, creating geographic, race, and age based

population estimates. This only assures that the comparison group is similar to the treatment group along geographic, race
and age variables. However, the participants may differ along other characteristics which could bias causal impact
estimates. The evaluation does not address this potential bias nor does it detail selection into the program.

                                                             17
years of implementation, the cost to society outweighs the benefits by roughly $1,600 per participant
(about $80,000 for one cohort of 50 students). However, just 2 years after a cohort finished the
program (age 20.1), the benefits to society start to outweigh the costs. By the time former
participants reach the age of 30, the net benefit to society is estimated to be $10,475 per participant
($523,750 for a cohort of 50).

The evaluation (Rosenthal et al. 2009) emphasizes that training, specifically decision-making
and taking responsibility for oneself, filled important knowledge gaps in these high-risk
teenagers’ lives. The comprehensive approach, which focuses on improving the lives of the
participants overall, not just sexual and reproductive decisions, positively impacts participants’
emotional, professional, and education outcomes, and benefits society in the long run. The study
highlights the importance for policy makers to focus on potential longer-term impacts of teenage
pregnancy programs instead of immediate costs.

             6) UGANDA CASE STUDY: Empowerment and Livelihood for Adolescents Project
             (ELA)

The Empowerment and Livelihood for Adolescents project was implemented by the NGO
BRAC Uganda and sought to improve cognitive and non-cognitive skills45 of adolescent
girls (ages 14-20) and technical skills training. Trainings were implemented in 50 community
‘adolescent development clubs’ (not school-based) in order to ensure participation from both in
school and out of school girls. The program took place outside of school hours to minimize
interference with classes. For the girls in school, data confirms there were no dropouts during
training, nor did participants decrease their school attendance or time spent on homework.

Higher-order cognitive and socio-emotional skills training aimed to increase knowledge,
particularly on sexual and reproductive health, and to reduce risky behavior. The curriculum
covered leadership, sexual and reproductive health (menstruation, pregnancy, STDs, HIV/AIDS,
family planning), rape, and rights awareness on important topics for women in Uganda, including
gender-based violence, child marriage, and bride price. Modules on management skills, negotiation,
and conflict resolution were also included.

The goal of the technical training component was to enable participants to start and
maintain their own small-scale income generating activities following ELA training.
Participants could choose to learn income-generating activities for agriculture, raising poultry, hair
styling, computers, or tailoring, among others. Girls also completed financial literacy courses
covering budgeting, financial services, and accounting in addition to vocational-specific skills.

The project included a rigorous randomized impact evaluation (Bandiera et al. 2012) which
tracked 4800 girls over a period of 2 years (2008-2010). Overall, ELA participation is attributed to
a near 26% drop in fertility rates over a two year time window while increasing overall knowledge on
pregnancy and HIV. Among sexually active participants, there was a 50 percent increase in self-
reported routine condom use. There was a dramatic decrease in the number of girls who reported
having had sex unwillingly over the past year (21 percent at the baseline down to almost zero), which
suggests that life skills modules on rape, gender-based violence prevention, legal rights, and
negotiation empowered them in their relationships with men. There were no reported changes in
STD incidence, but those who contracted a STD were more likely to seek treatment at a health
facility. When participants were asked the ‘suitable age’ for marriage and having children, the age
reported increased over the participation period. Participants also preferred that their own daughters
(present or future) get married at a significantly older age than reported at the baseline.

45   Project documents utilize term “life skills.?

                                                     18
Participation in the ELA project had strong positive economic impacts on beneficiaries. The
likelihood that girls participated in income generating activities increased by 32 percent in participant
communities, mostly due to increases in self-employment. Over the span of the evaluation,
beneficiary incomes increased by 14.8 percent on average.

The results of the ELA project evaluation suggests that “combined interventions might be
more effective among adolescent girls than single-pronged interventions aiming to change
risky behaviors solely through related education programmes, or to improve labor market
outcomes solely through vocational? (Bandiera et al. 2012). This case suggests that higher-order
cognitive and socio-emotional skills and traditional technical training are complimentary.

          7) LIBERIA CASE STUDY: Economic Empowerment of Adolescent Girls and
          Young Women (EPAG)

The Adolescent Girls’ Initiative (AGI)46, Economic Empowerment of Adolescent Girls and
Young Women (EPAG), program in Liberia was launched in 2009 to increase employment
and incomes for 2,500 young women by providing life skills and livelihood training to help
them transition into productive work. Participants received six months of classroom based
training followed by a six month support phase. Participants opted into either a formal employment
technical track (hospitality, professional cleaning/waste management, office/computer skills,
professional painting, security guard services, or professional driving) or a general self-employment
“business development services? 47 track for their classroom training. The classroom based
curriculum for all technical fields also included cognitive skills (financial literacy, math); socio-emotional
skills (leadership, self-esteem, confidence, problem solving, community service, communication, time
management, conflict management, job search techniques and interviewing, and preparation for
professional life); and modules on sexual and reproductive health, early pregnancy, unequal gender
norms, gender-based violence, and rights awareness (World Bank 2013; World Bank 2012, Adoho et
al. 2014).

Results from the midline impact evaluation of the EPAG program48 show promising results
(Adoho et al. 2014). This evaluation was conducted six months after program participants had
completed classroom based training comparing treated participants to a control group. Employment
for participants increased by 47 percent, and earnings saw an 80 percent increase. Individual
empowerment indicators such as self-confidence, anxiety about the present and future, and access to
money showed positive effects. At the household level, gender norms became more equitable. An
endline evaluation found that the impacts for treated participants on employment and savings were
sustained in the treatment group. The control group from the midline was treated by the time of the
endline as the evaluation was a randomized phase-in model, and impacts on this group also affirmed
effects on employment and savings. The endline evaluation confirmed that the program did not
have impacts on sexual behavior even when looking over a longer period of time (one year and four
months after round one participants completed training). (World Bank 2012, Adolescent Girls
Initiative 2014).


46 The Adolescent Girls’ Initiative (AGI), a public-private partnership between the World Bank and the Nike Foundation,
promotes the transition of adolescent girls from school to productive employment through rigorously tested, innovative
pilot interventions. AGI projects are being piloted in 8 countries including Haiti, Lao PDR, Afghanistan, Liberia, Nepal,
Jordan, South Sudan, and Rwanda. Each project prepares participants for labor market entry through vocational and/or
business training combined with life skills.
47 The business services development track curriculum included training on entrepreneurship principles, market analysis,

business management, customer service, money management, and record-keeping.
48The evaluation employed an individual level randomized control trial design, with a sample size of 1,601 students surveyed

in baseline and midline. Results presented here are intention to treat findings. The midline data was collected seven
months following completion of the classroom training and one month after the completion of the support phase.

                                                            19
          8) HAITI CASE STUDY: Adolescent Girls Initiative

The Haiti Adolescent Girls Initiative (AGI) program, implemented from 2012 to 2014, sought to
improve social and economic outcomes for 1,000 vulnerable females ages 17-21 in Port-au-Prince.
The project included 4-6 months of technical training in a high-demand trade in local labor markets
(auto mechanic, air conditioning repair, plumbing, construction, IT, etc.), 4-6 months of socio-
emotional skills development, a month-long internship to hone professional skills, psycho-social
support and a stipend to cover the transportation and food costs associated with participation.

The life skills curriculum for Haiti AGI included 8 modules on: 1) psycho-social education;
2) civic engagement and leadership; 3) gender-based violence; 4) sexual and reproductive
health; 5) professional development and work ethic; 6) disaster preparedness; 7) financial
literacy; and 8) disability awareness. Together with local partners, the World Bank created and
validated the skills curriculum to ensure relevance and sensitivity to the local context, language and
target audience. Teachers equipped with best practice methods specific to the target group
conducted trainings at private training centers; and skills lessons were held at well-respected
community NGOs.

A qualitative evaluation49 of the Haiti AGI reveals the positive effect socio-emotional skills
training had on participants. Female participants were more motivated and confident on account
of participation in the AGI. The young women reported that modules on sexual and reproductive
health, violence against women, and professional behaviors were the most relevant and helpful.
Several women expressed particular regret that the sexual and reproductive health module was not
taught earlier in the course; they claimed it would have helped them avoid negative outcomes relative
to sexual and reproductive health decisions.50 Through the violence against women module, many
learned for the first time that non-consensual sex is rape. Mentors counseled young women who
reported experiencing rape within their current relationships. Interviews indicate that AGI filled
critical skill and information gaps for young women in Haiti, and provided them with opportunities
previously not available to them. Participants reported having higher expectations about future labor
opportunities “confidence across the board that they will be able to find enough shorter team work
to significantly increase their income on a more frequent basis… [and] be able to earn above the
minimum wage as skilled labor.? They credited socio-emotional skills training with these changes.
(Schutte, Forthcoming)

An impact evaluation of the Haiti AGI, which was completed three months after program
completion, confirms that socio-emotional and technical skills of beneficiaries were
enhanced. AGI participants show increased autonomy in decision-making and personal mobility
and standing in relations with family and others when compared to a control group. A positive
impact on autonomy in personal mobility of AGI trainees was observed: AGI participants were 15pp
more likely to go to school or training centers, 6pp more likely to go to NGOs and 8pp more likely
to go to health centers. Their aspirations about work and income were strengthened; they became
more assertive and willing to talk to others about job opportunities; and they were less willing to
accept violent behavior from an intimate partner. The impact evaluation also shows that the
intervention significantly reduces stress: beneficiaries reported feeling less overwhelmed and more in
control (World Bank 2015).


49 The qualitative evaluation was conducted through eleven focus groups with 107 stakeholders interviewed including
beneficiaries, family and parents, training center staff, mentors, and implementing NGO staff.
50 This point highlights how difficult it is to fully interpret the results of impact evaluations for similar projects which may

lack a qualitative angle. Aspects of agency are complicated to measure but researchers are coming up with creative ways to
capture agency-related indicators through impact evaluations. However, qualitative evaluations are especially effective at
capturing quotes, emotions, and other data that is difficult to quantify.

                                                              20
With respect to labor-market outcomes, the evaluation shows that beneficiaries are less likely
to be working in the short term; but that they are transitioning toward higher skilled jobs
related to technical training received. 51 Despite failure to produce immediate economic
outcomes, Haiti AGI participants reported feeling more in control of their decisions regarding their
professional life, and had higher aspirations for more education and enhanced expectations for better
employment. Qualitative evaluations confirmed the key role of soft-skill training in preparing
women for challenges in entering a difficult labor market; young women indicated that soft-skill
training gave them the confidence to recognize and diffuse unwanted sexual advances in the process
of interviewing for jobs. Compared to the control group, young women in AGI were 14pp more
likely to expect to enroll in school and 12.7pp more likely to expect to be engaged in an income-
generating activity in two years.

     6. Conclusions and recommendations

Like the CONPES 147, this note recognizes that the range of factors that affect teen
pregnancy in Colombia is large and that developing effective policy solutions to reduce teen
pregnancy depends upon identifying the right mix of programs that relieve constraints and
enable teens to live the lives they value and have reason to value. In particular, interventions
that combine strategies to address both external constraints (access to quality endowments and
opportunities) and internal constraints (self-esteem, self-efficacy, grit, etc.) will enable youth to create
meaningful life plans and to pursue (or avoid) opportunities based on their aspirations.

Young women and men need the capacity to aspire and develop meaningful life plans, but
they also need practical skills and tools to accomplish their goals. Higher-order cognitive and
socio-emotional skills are critical for both the social and professional development of adolescents,
and are highly valued by employers. Practical, well-designed interventions can improve labor market
outcomes of young men and women, reduce teenage pregnancy rates, and impact other dimensions
of well-being, such as self-esteem and healthy relationships.

In Colombia, important and currently unexploited synergies exist between the youth labor
and teenage pregnancy agendas. Both strategies seek to relieve the constraints of Colombian
youth to opportunities, and to enable them to develop and pursue meaningful life plans. Key
components within these strategies, namely, enhance the opportunity for young man and women to
develop or strengthen skills (cognitive, non-cognitive, socio-emotional) within the context of their
life plans provide important, yet currently unexploited, opportunities for linking the two strategies
and enhancing their impact.

The note presents evidence that targeted youth programs combining technical training
along with higher-order cognitive and socio-emotional skills not only can increase economic
outcomes, but also can lower incidence of teenage pregnancy. Interventions that combine
training for specific, targeted labor market opportunities with skills that increase confidence, self-
esteem, and deliberate planning for the future, such as “Juventud y Empleo? of the Dominican
Republic, will equip boys and girls with the educational, technical and social tools necessary to create
and pursue meaningful life goals while impacting both teenage pregnancy and labor market outcomes
of the youth. Such interventions, however, must be adapted to different groups (in-school and out-
of-school) and recognize gender-based differences. With regard to the latter, while youth
unemployment and teenage pregnancy are issues that concern both boys and girls, intervention
should carefully consider the different needs of girls and boys have when aiming to promote better
labor market outcomes for both. A gender-sensitive curriculum can help young men and women
51Negative results could be explained by the limited timeframe of the evaluation, conducted three months after the
program’s conclusion due to security concerns and shortened period of implementation between the first and second
cohort.

                                                           21
think critically about gender norms and confront stereotypes that might limit their expectations for
the future.

It is important to emphasize, however, that boosting life skills could possibly backfire if not
combined with tangible economic opportunities. For instance, while higher-order cognitive and
socio-emotional skills can play a positive role in strengthening critical thinking, raising aspirations,
and allowing individuals to more successfully navigate life decisions, if economic opportunities are
not available after individual agency is raised and future goals and aspirations are set, youth might get
frustrated and abandon their life plans. Youth interventions that increase technical and socio-
emotional skills can improve individual development outcomes in the long run; however,
complementary policies that improve youth labor market opportunities are also necessary.

Lastly, it is important to be mindful that successful interventions are often context-
dependent. The example programs combining higher-order cognitive, socio-emotional and technical
skill development presented in this note provide a good starting point for interventions that can
exploit the potential synergies between the COPNES 147 and CONPES Juventud. However,
successful programs are not readily replicable across countries; they must be adapted to the local
context and their effectiveness must be evaluated rigorously before scaling-up.




                                                   22
References

Adoho, Franck, Shubha Chakravarty, Dala T. Korkoyah, Jr., Mattias Lundberg, and Afia Tasneem
(2014) The Impact of an Adolescent Girls Employment Program: The EPAG Project in Liberia. Washington,
DC: World Bank.

Adolescent Girls Initiative and the Liberian Ministry of Gender and Development (2014) Can skills
training increase employment for young women? Endline Results. Available at: http://www-
wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2014/08/21/000333037_2014082110
3830/Rendered/PDF/900690BRI0P11000Box385299B00PUBLIC0.pdf Accessed January 30, 2015.

Advocates for Youth (2008) Science and Success: Sex Education and Other Programs that work to Prevent Teen
Pregnancy, HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infections – Second Edition. Washington, DC: Advocates for
Youth.

Allen Joseph P. and Susan Philliber. Who benefits most from a broadly targeted prevention program? Differential
efficacy across populations in the Teen Outreach Program. Journal of Community Psychology 2001; 29:637-
655.

Allen Joseph P., Susan Philliber, Scott Herrling and Gabriel P. Kuperminc Preventing teen pregnancy and
academic failure: experimental evaluation of a developmentally-based approach. Child Development 1997; 64:729-
742.

Almlund, Mathilde, Angela Duckworth, James heckman and Tim Kautz (2011) “Pesonality
Psychology and Economics? in Eric Hanushek (ed.), Handbook of the Economics of Education, volume 4,
pp. 1-181. North Holland: Amsterdam.

Arceo-Gomez and Raymundo M. Campos-Vasquez (2011) Teenage Pregnancy in Mexico: Evolution and
Consequences. DTE Working Papers 516, CIDE, Division de Economia.

Arias E. and L. F. Lopez Calva (2012), “Too Young or Too Poor? On the Intergenerational Link of
Teenage Childbearing,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al. (2013)

Arias E. and L. F Lopez Calva (2012), “The impact of maternal age on non-cognitive skills
development and the consequences for social progress in Peru,? Background Paper for Azevedo et
al. (2013)

Arceo-Gomez E.O. and R.M. Campos-Vazquez, (2011), “Teenage Pregnancy in Mexico: Evolution
and Consequences,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al. (2013)

Azevedo J.P, L.F. Lopez-Calva, and E. Perova, (2012), “Is the baby to blame? An inquiry into the
consequences of early childbearing,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al. (2013)

Azevedo J.P, Favara M., (2012), “The Impact of Bolsa Familia on the Incidence of Teenage
Pregnancies in Brazil,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al. (2013)

Azevedo, Joao Pedro, Marta Favara, Sarah E. Haddock, Luiz F. Lopez-Calva, Miriam Muller, and
Elizaveta Perova (2013) Teenage Pregnancy and Opportunities in Latin America and the Caribbean: On Early
Child Bearing, Poverty and Economic Achievement. Washington, DC: The World Bank.

Ball, Victoria and Kristin A. Moore (2008) What Works for Adolescent Reproductive Health: Lessons from
Experimental Evaluations of Programs and Interventions. Washington, DC: Child Trends.

                                                      23
Bandiera, Oriana, Niklas Buehren, Robin Burgess, Markus Goldstein, Selim Gulesci, Imran Rasul and
Munshi Sulaiman (2012) Empowering Adolescent Girls: Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial in Uganda.
Gender Impact: the World Bank's Gender Impact Evaluation Database. Washington, DC: World
Bank.

Barrick, M.R. and M.K. Mount (991) The Big Five Personality Dimensions and Job Performance: A Meta-
Analysis. Personnel Psychology, 44:1-26.

Best Start Resource Center (2007) Teen Pregnancy Prevention: Exploring Out-of-School Approaches. Toronto:
Best Start Resource Center.

Blom, Andreas and Cynthia Hobbs (2008) School and Work in the Eastern Caribbean Does the Education
System Adequately Prepare Youth for the Global Economy? Washington, DC: World Bank.

Bonnell, C. et al. (2005) The effect of dislike of school on risk of teenage pregnancy: testing of hypotheses using
longitudinal data from a randomized trial of sex education. Journal of Epidemiological and Community
Health 59, 223-330.

Borghans, Lex, Angela Lee Duckworth, James J. Heckman and Bas ter Weel. The Economics and
Psychology of Personality Traits. Journal of Human Resources, University of Wisconsin Press, vol. 43(4).

Bowles, Samuel, Herbert Gintis and Melissa Osborne (2001) The Determinants of Earnings: A Behavioral
Approach. Journal of Economic Literature 39(4): 1137-1176.

Catino, J., Colom, A. and Ruiz, J. R. (2011) Equipping Mayan girls to Improve their Lives. Promoting
Healthy, Safe, and Productive Transitions to Adulthood Series. Brief no. 5 Population Council.
Updated March 2011.

Cater, Suzanne and Lester Coleman (2006) ‘Planned’ Teenage Pregnancy: Views and Experiences of Young
People from Poor and Disadvantaged Backgrounds. Trust of the Study of Adolescents.

Chaaban, J. and Wendy Cunningham (2011) Measuring the Economic Gain of Investing in Girls.
Washington, DC: World Bank.

Clausen, John A. and Martin Gilens (1990) Personality and Labor Force Participation across the Life Course:
A Longitudinal Study of Women's Careers. Sociological Forum 5:595-618.

Cunningham, Wendy and Paula Villaseñor (2014) Employer Voices, Employer Demands, and Implications
for Public Skills Development Policy. World Bank Group Policy Research Working Paper 6853.

Duncan, G. J., and R. Dunifon (1998): Soft-Skills and Long-Run Labor Market Success. Research in Labor
Economics, 17, 123–149.

ECLAC and UNICEF (2007) Teenage Motherhood in Latin America and the Caribbean: Trends, Problems and
Challenges. United Nations.

Escobar, Pamela (2011) Avances y desafíos en las dimensiones del desarrollo humano de los pueblos indígenas de
Guatemala. Cuaderno de Desarrollo Humano 2009/2010 - 8.

Eskreis-Winkler, L., Duckworth, A.L., Shulman, E., & Beal, S. (2014). The grit effect: Predicting retention
in the military, the workplace, school and marriage. Frontiers in Personality Science and Individual Differences.



                                                           24
Fazio, M.V. (2011) Análisis de la percepción de los empleadores acerca de las pasantías y las perspectivas de
inserción laboral en esas empresas. BID. Nota Técnica IDB-TN-240. 32

Felfe, Christina, Michael Lechner and Andreas Steinmayr (2011) Sports and Child Development. Bonn:
IZA Discussion Paper Series.

Frost JJ, Forrest JD. Understanding the impact of effective teenage pregnancy prevention programs. Family
Planning Perspectives 1995; 27:188-195.

Gottschalk, Peter (2005) Can work alter welfare recipients’ beliefs? Journal of Policy Analysis and
Management, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., vol. 24(3): 485-498.

Graves, Kelly N., Annette Sentner, Jean Workman and Wanda Mackey. Building Positive Life Skills the
Smart Girls Way: Evaluation of a School-Based Sexual Responsibility Program for Adolescent Girls. Health
Promotion Practice 2011; 12:463.

Gueorguieva, Ralitza V., Randy L. Carter, Mario Ariet, Jeffrey Roth, Charles S. Mahan and Michael
B. Resnick. Effect of Teenage Pregnancy on Education Disabilities in Kindergarten. Journal of American
Epidemiology (2011) 153(3):212-220.

Guerra, Nancy, Kathryn Modecki, and Wendy Cunningham (2014). Developing Social-Emotional Skills
for the Labor Market: The PRACTICE Model. World Bank Group Policy Research Working Paper 7123.

Guttmacher Institute (1998) Teenagers’ Pregnancy Intentions and Decisions: A Study of Young Women in
California Choosing to Give Birth.

Hawkins, J. David, Richard F. Catalano, Rick Kosterman, Robert Abbott, and Karl G. Hill. (1999)
Preventing Adolescent Health-Risk Behaviors by Strengthening Protection During Childhood. Arch Pediatr
Adolesc Med. Vol. 153.

Heavey, Elizabeth J., Kirsten B. Moysich, Andrew Hyland, Charlotte M. Druschel and Michael W.
Sill. Differences in Pregnancy Desire among Pregnant Female Adolescents at a State-Funded Family Planning Clinic.
Journal Midwifery Womens Health (2008) March-April 53(2):130-7.

Heckman, James J., Jora Stixrud and Sergio Urzua. The Effects Of Cognitive and Non-cognitive Abilities On
Labor Market Outcomes and Social Behavior. Journal of Labor Economics, 2006, v24 (3 Jul), 411-482.

Hoffman SD (2006) By the Numbers—The Public Costs of Teen Childbearing. Washington, DC: National
Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy.

Hoffman SD (2008) Kids Having Kids: Economic Costs and Social Consequences of Teen
Pregnancy. Washington, DC: The Urban Institute Press.

Ibarraran, Pablo, Laura Ripani, Bibiana Taboada, Juan Miguel Villa and Brigida Garcia (2012) Life
Skills, Employability and Training for Disadvantaged Youth: Evidence from a Randomized Evaluation Design.
Washington, DC: Inter-American Development Bank.

ICRW and Promundo (2011): Evolving Men: Initial Results from the International Men and Gender
Equality Survey

Judge, T.A., & Hurst, C. (2007) Capitalizing on one’s advantages: Role of core self-evaluations. Journal of
Applied Psychology, 92, 1212–1227.


                                                         25
Kruger, D.I and M. Berthelon (2012), “Education consequences of adolescent motherhood
in Chile,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al. (2013)

Kruger, Diana I. and Matias Berthelon (2014) The impact of adolescent motherhood on education in Chile.
Bonn: IZA Discussion Paper Series.

Lasida, Javier and Ernesto Rodriguez (2006) Entering the World of Work: The Results of Six entra 21 Youth
Employment Projects. International Youth Foundation (IYF).

Lonczak HS, Abbott RD, Hawkins JD et al. Effects of the Seattle Social Development Project on sexual
behavior, pregnancy, birth, and sexually transmitted disease outcomes by age 21 years. Archives of Pediatrics &
Adolescent Medicine 2002; 156:438-447.

Lopez-Calva, L.F and E. Perova (2012), “The Impact of Conditional Cash Transfers on the
Incidence of Teenage Pregnancies. Evidence from Peru,? Background Paper for Azevedo et al.
(2013).

“Más curules para las mujeres en el Congreso: ¿mejora la participación?? Elecciones 2014, El Tiempo.
11 Marzo 2014. Viewed at: http://www.eltiempo.com/elecciones-2014/congreso/ms-curules-para-
las-mujeres-en-el-congreso-mejora-la-participacin/13636562. Accessed August 29, 2014.

Ministry of Education, Colombia (2010). Encuesta Nacional de Deserción Escolar. Viewed at:
http://www.mineducacion.gov.co/1621/articles-293664_archivo_pdf_resultados_ETC.pdf.
Accessed February 9, 2015.

Moloney, Anastasia (2012) Colombia to tackle high rate of teens leaving school because of pregnancy. Thomson
Reuters Foundation.

The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy (2013) Counting it up: The public
costs of teen childbearing: key data. Washington, DC: The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and
Unplanned Pregnancy.

Neisser, Ulric, Gwyneth Boodoo, Thomas Couchard, A.Wade Boykin, Nathan Bordy, Stephen Ceci,
Diane Halpern, John Leohlin, Robert Perloff, Robert Sternberg and Susana Urbina (1996).
“Intelligence: Knowns and Unknowns? American Psychologist, 51(2): 77-101.

Novella, Rafael and Laura Ripani. (forthcoming) Are you (Not) Expecting? The Unforseen Benefits of Job
Training on Teenage Pregnancy.

Perez Then, Eddy, Marija Miric, and Tahira Vargas. (2011) El Embarazo en Adolescentes en la Republica
Dominicana: Una realidad en transicion? Profamilia, IPPF/RHO and DFID.

Plotnick, Robert D (1992) The effects of attitudes on teenage premarital pregnancy and its resolution. American
Sociological Review, vol 57(6), 800-811.

Plotnick, Robert D. (1993) The Effect of Social Policies on Teenage Pregnancy and Childbearing Families in
Society, The Contemporary Journal of Human Services, 74:6, June, 324-328.

Plotnick, Robert D. (2007) Adolescent expectations and desires about marriage and parenthood, Journal of
Adolescence, 30, December, 943-63.




                                                        26
Population Council (2009) It’s All One Curriculum: Guidelines and Activities for a Unified Approach to
Sexuality, Gender, HIV, and Human Rights Education. New York: Population Council.

Population Council website, Abriendo Oportunidades page:
http://www.popcouncil.org/research/abriendo-oportunidades-opening-opportunities. Accessed
June 15, 2014.

Presler-Marshall, Elizabeth and Nicola Jones (2012) Charting the Future: Empowering Girls to Prevent
Early Pregnancy. London: Overseas Development Institute.

Rosenthal, Marjorie S., Joseph S. Ross, Rose Anne Bilodeau, Rosemary S. Richter, Jane E. Palley, and
Elizabeth H. Bradley (2009) Economic Evaluation of a Comprehensive Teenage Pregnancy Prevention Program:
Pilot Program. Washington, DC: National Institutes of Health.

Schmidt, F., & Hunter, J. (2004) General mental ability in the world of work: Occupational attainment and job
performance. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 86(1), 162–173.

Schutte, Rebecca. Forthcoming. “The Haiti Adolescent Girls’ Initiative: Giving Girls a Change to
Develop Haiti, Results from Mid-line Qualitative Evaluation.? March 4, 2014.

Shwarzer, Ralf and Aleksandra Luszcztnska. 2005. “Self-Efficacy, Adolescents’ Risk-Taking
Behaviors, and Health.? in Self-Efficacy Beliefs of Adolescents. Information Age Publishing. Vol. 1 :139-
159

UNESCO (2004) Report of the Inter-Agency Working Group on Life Skills in EFA. Paris: UNESCO.

UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (2013) Youth Matters: Equipping vulnerable young people with
literacy and life skills. Paris: UNESCO.

UNFPA (2013) Motherhood in Childhood: Facing the Challenge of Adolescent Pregnancy. State of the World
Population 2013 Report. New York: United Nations Population Fund.

UNICEF, ECLAC (2007). Teenage motherhood in Latin America and the Caribbean Trends, problems and
challenges.

World Bank website, The Adolescent Girls’ Initiative page:
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTGENDER/0,,contentMDK:219
14520~pagePK:210058~piPK:210062~theSitePK:336868,00.html. Accessed June 22, 2014.

World Bank (2014) Gender at Work: A Companion Guide to the World Development Report 2013 on Jobs.
http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/gender/publication/gender-at-work-companion-report-to-
world-development-report-2013-jobs Accessed February 10, 2015.

World Bank (2013) Life Skills: What are they, Why do they matter, and How are they taught? Washington,
DC: World Bank’s Adolescent Girls’ Initiative (AGI) Learning from Practice Series.

World Bank (2012) Can skills training programs increase employment for young women? The case of Liberia.
Washington, DC: World Bank’s Adolescent Girls’ Initiative (AGI) Results Series.

World Bank (2012) World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development. Washington, DC:
World Bank.



                                                      27
World Bank (2015) Haiti Adolescent Girl Initiative (AGI): Project Report. Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Health Organization (1999) Partners in Life Skills Education: Conclusions from a UN Inter-agency
meeting. Geneva: World Health Organization.

World Health Organization. Skills for Health: Skills-based Health Education Including Life Skills. The
World Health Organization’s Information Series on School Health, Document 9.

World Health Roganization. Teenage Pregnancy: Fact Sheet. September 2014. Available at:
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs364/en/




                                                     28
Table Annex

Table T1: Life Skills Training and Teen Pregnancy Outcomes


   PROGRAM      COUNT TARGET              INTERVENTI            RESULTS            METHODOL
                  RY       GROUP                  ON                                    OGY
1 Abriendo      Guatemala Mayan girls,    Access to girls’     e; Increased       Qualitative
  Oportunida              ages 8-18       clubs, safe spaces   self-esteem,       program
  des                                     where girls build    confidence,        evaluation, no
                                          social networks      autonomy           comparison
                                          and receive life     and                group
                                          skills and           improved
                                          leadership           intra
                                          training.            household
                                                               gender
                                                               norms
2 Seattle       USA         Elementary    Classroom-based      Improved           Nonrandomized
  Social                    school        curriculum to        educational        control trial,
  Developme                 students,     build                outcomes;          longitudinal
  nt Project                grades 1-6    interpersonal        reduced risky      panel, long-term
                                          problem-solving      behaviors –        follow-up
                                          and resist peer      fewer sexual       (N=349
                                          pressure.            partners,          students)
                                                               lower
                                                               pregnancy
                                                               and birth
                                                               rates, higher
                                                               rates of
                                                               condom use,
                                                               lower
                                                               incidence of
                                                               substance
                                                               abuse and
                                                               violent/crimi
                                                               nal activity.
3 Juventud y    Dominica Disadvanta       Life skills          Decreased          Randomized
  Empleo        n Republic ged youth      training –           fertility rates,   Control Trial
  (JE)                     (ages 16-29)   planning,            especially         (N=5,000)
                                          cognitive, social    among the
                                          and professional     16-19 year
                                          skills; technical    old cohort;
                                          and vocational       increased
                                          training plus        optimism for
                                          internship           future;
                                                               increase in
                                                               formal work
                                                               (men only).
4 Teen          USA         High          Community            Improved           20% of the
  Outreach                  school        service,             educational        sample was
  Program                   students      classroom            outcomes –         randomly


                                           29
  (TOP)                  with high      discussions, life     reduction in      assigned to
                         risk of        skills instruction    failed classes,   treatment or
                         dropout        – coping with         suspensions       control. 80%
                         and/or         stress,               and               was hand
                         teenage        relationships,        dropping          selected
                         pregnancy      communication         out; lower        subjectively
                                        and decision-         rates of teen     matching similar
                                        making.               pregnancy         characteristics by
                                                              and reduced       guidance
                                                              levels of         counselors.
                                                              repeat
                                                              pregnancy.
5 Greater      USA       Latino/a       Comprehensive         All               Comparison
  New Britain            middle and     7-year program        graduated         group
  Teenage                high school    with daily            high school       constructed using
  Pregnancy              students       interactions –        on time;          local
  Prevention’s           (ages 11-18)   academic              majority          administrative
  PATHWAY                               support, career       continued to      data and census
  S/                                    preparation,          higher            data, creating
  Senderos                              recreation, health    education         estimates based
  Center                                care referrals,                         on geographic
                                        creative                                location, race,
                                        expression, and                         and age.
                                        family life, sex                        Evaluation does
                                        and health                              not address
                                        education.                              potential
                                                                                selection bias
                                                                                into the program.
                                                                                (treatment
                                                                                sample size: 50
                                                                                students)
6 Empowerm      Uganda   Adolescent     Life skills           Decreased         Clustered
  ent and                girls (ages    (leadership,          teenage           Randomized
  Livelihood             14-20)         rights awareness,     pregnancy         Control Trial
  for                                   management            rates;            (N=4,800)
  Adolescents                           skills, negotiation   increased
  (ELA)                                 and conflict          knowledge
                                        resolution),          of HIV and
                                        sexual and            pregnancy;
                                        reproductive          increased
                                        health education,     condom use;
                                        and vocational        elimination
                                        training in girls’    of reported
                                        only spaces           “unwilling?
                                                              sex;
                                                              increased use
                                                              of health
                                                              facilities for
                                                              those with
                                                              STIs;
                                                              increased
                                                              income

                                         30
7 Economic     Liberia   Young          Knowledge and           Increased        Individual level
  Empowerm               women          behavior skills;        earnings and     randomized
  ent of                 (ages 17-21)   livelihoods             labor force      control trail
  Adolescent                            training to             participation;   (N=1,601)
  Girls and                             support girls’          increased
  Young                                 transition into         empowerme
  Women                                 productive work;        nt indicators.
  (EPAG)                                childcare during        No impacts
                                        training; cash          on teen
                                        stipend                 pregnancy.
8 Haiti AGI    Haiti     Vulnerable     Vocational              Increased        Qualitative
                         young          training; life skills   self-            evaluation: 11
                         women          training; one           confidence       focus groups
                         (ages 17-21)   month-long              and              conducted with
                                        internship;             motivation,      107 stakeholders
                                        psycho-social           higher           interviewed
                                        support                 expectations
                                        throughout; cash        about future     Quantitative
                                        stipend                 labor market     Impact
                                                                opportunitie     Evaluation:
                                                                s.               Randomized
                                                                                 control trial
                                                                                 (N=1474)




                                          31
Table T2: Case Studies - Components




Table T3: Case Studies – Outcomes / Results




                                          32
Table T4: Econometria – Impact Evaluation

Variable                                                                   Direction      Statisticall
                                                                           of             y
                                                                           correlation    significant
                                                                                          at the 10%
                                                                                          level
Economic and Demographic
       Poverty                                                             +              Yes
       Economic Stratum                                                    -              Yes
       Rural                                                               +              No
Household
       Completion of Secondary School                                      -              No
       Your mother was pregnant in her adolescence                         +              Yes
       “Your parents know when you leave the house?                        -              No
       “Your parents impose curfew [ponian horarios]?                      +              Yes
Behavior
       Age of first sexual relationship                                    -              Yes
       Use of condom in first sexual relationship                          -              Yes
Education and Work
       Interrupted studies before 14                                       +              Yes
       Ever worked before 14                                               +              No
SRH Information
       Received information about Sexual and Reproductive                  +              Yes
       Rights prior to age 14
       Received information about reproductive decisions prior             +              No
       to age 14
       Received information about pregnancy before age 14                  -              Yes
       Received information about maternity or paternity                   -              Yes
       Received information about abuse and violence before                -              Yes
       age 14


* This table pools findings from different regression. All variables in the table represent right hand
side variables, the direction of their correlation with the “ever pregnant? left hand side variable and
statistical significance of said correlation. Fixed effects for municipality and region applied in all
regressions.




                                                  33
Data Annex

    Labor force: or economically active population (PEA) Proportion of people in working ages
     that are either working or looking for a job.
    Unemployment: Proportion of people in the labor force that are seeking employment.
    Employment: Proportion of people in working ages that are employed.
    Unemployment by educational level: Proportion of people in working ages that are seeking
     employment, by highest level of education achieved (none, preschool, basic primary, basic
     secondary, media, superior or university).
    Underemployment: DANE’s definition. If weekly worked hours in first and secondary
     employment are less than 48, and if person expresses desire to work more hours.
     Source: http://www.dane.gov.co/files/faqs/faq_ech.pdf
    Informality: DANE’s definition of informality includes:
          1. Workers who work in establishments, businesses or enterprises employing up to five persons in all its
              branches and agencies, including the employer and/or partner;
          2. Unpaid family workers;
          3. Unpaid workers in companies or businesses from other households;
          4. Domestics workers;
          5. Day laborers;
          6. Self-employed working in establishments up to five people, other independent professionals;
          7. Patterns companies or employers in five workers or less;
          8. Workers or government employees are excluded.

         Source:
         http://www.dane.gov.co/files/investigaciones/boletines/ech/ech_informalidad/metodolog
         ia_informalidad.pdf
    Hours worked: weekly hours worked in primary and secondary jobs
    Part time employment: Weekly hours worked (main + secondary job) less than 40 hours52
    Wages: Sum of income from main job, income from secondary job, and income in kind (+ each
     of the imputed estimated figures for each of them) in COP, only for those occupied.
    Wages by educational level: Wages by highest level of education achieved (none, preschool,
     basic primary, basic secondary, media, superior or university).




52The highest mode (22 percent of the distribution) in this figure is 48 hours, while 40 is the second highest (11 percent of
the distribution).

                                                             34
