                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28962

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (CPL-35030 CPL-35040 CPL-35050)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 245 MILLION EQUIVALENT

    TO THE STATES OF SÃO PAULO AND PARANA AND FOR THE FEDERAL STATE OF

                                                 BRAZIL

                                                FOR THE

                       WATER QUALITY & POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT




                                              June 25, 2004




Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure
Brazil Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Real
                                              1 = US$ 0.32
                                        US$ 1 = Real 3.14

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANESPA     Banco do Estado de São Paulo
CAS         Country Assessment Strategy
CBA         Cost Benefit Analysis
CDHU        Companhia de Desenvolvimento Habitacional e Urbano do Estado de São Paulo
CETESB      Companhia de Tecnologia e Saneamento Ambiental
COMEC       Coordenação da Região Metropolitana de Curitiba
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
ELETROPAULO Eletricidade de São Paulo S/A
EMPLASA     Empresa Metropolitana de Planejamento
FEHIDRO     Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hídricos
GEP         Governo do Estado do Paraná
GESP        Governo do Estado de São Paulo
GoB         Governo do Brazil
IAP         Instituto Ambiental do Paraná
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
MAS         Ministério Asistencia Social
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO's       Non Governmental Organizations
PDPA        Plano de Desenvolvimiento e Protecao Ambiental
PMC         Prefeitura Municipal de Curitiba
PME         Prefeitura Municipal de Embu
PMEG        Prefeitura Municipal de Embu-Guaçu
PMIS        Prefeitura Municipal de Itapecerica da Serra
PMSL        Prefeitura Municipal de São Lourenço
PMSP        Prefeitura do Municipio do São Paulo
PLANASA     Analisa o Plano Nacional de Saneamento Básico
PQA         Projeto Qualidade das Águas e Controle da Poluição Hídrica
PROSAM      Programa de Saneamento Ambiental do Regiao Metropolitana de Curitiba
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
RFT         Relatório Final do Tomador
RIMA        Relatorio de Impacto do Meio Ambiente
RMC         Região Metropolitana de Curitiba
RMSP        Região Metropolitana de São Paulo

SABESP     Companhia de Saneamento Básico do Estado de São Paulo
SANEPAR    Companhia de Saneamento do Paraná
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SEGRH      Sistema Estadual de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos
SEMA       Secretaria Estadual do Meio Ambiente
SEPL       Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e Coordenação Geral
SIG        Sistema de Informações Georreferenciadas
SIGRHO     Sistema de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos do Estado de São Paulo
SIQUA      Sistema de Informações sobre Qualidade da Água
SMA        Secretaria do Meio Ambiente do Estado de São Paulo
SNS        Secretaría Nacional de Saneamento
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
SRH        Secretaría de Recursos Hídricos, Saneamento e Obras
SS         Summary Sheet
SUDHERSA   Superintendência dos Recursos Hídricos e Saneamento Ambiental
SUREHMA    Superintendência dos Recursos Hídricos e Meio Ambiente
UGCN       Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa-Componente Nacional
UGP-SP     Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa-São Paulo
UGP-PR    Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa-Paraná
WQI       Water Quality Index



                             Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                            Country Director      Vinod Thomas
                             Sector Manager       John H. Stein/Danny M. Leipziger
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Carlos E. Vélez

                                           BRAZIL
                         Water Quality and Pollution Control Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 25
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              33
10. Additional Information                                                       41
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             42
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             65
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             74
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             89
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             93
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                94
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            95
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              99
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                           106
Annex 10. Population Resettlement                                               110
Annex 11. Water Quality                                                         117
Annex 12. Positive Impacts Resulting from Construction of the Irai Dam          142
Annex 13. Irai Dam and Macuquinho-da-Varzea                                     146
Annex 14. Institutional Arrangements                                            149

Project ID: P006541                                                  Project Name: Water Quality and Pollution Control
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Carlos E. Velez                                         TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Water Quality and Pollution Control Project              L/C/TF Number: CPL-35030; CPL-35040;
                                                                                                     CPL-35050
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (74%);
                            Sub-national government administration (9%); Roads and highways
                            (7%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (7%); Other
                            social services (3%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (P); Decentralization (P); Other social development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/91                                       Effective: 05/17/93                  09/28/94 (35030)
                                                                                                    05/17/93 (35040)
                                                                                                    05/17/93 (35050)
     Appraisal: 06/12/92                                           MTR: 06/01/96                    12/01/95 (35040)
                                                                                                    06/01/96 (35050)
      Approval: 07/02/92                                        Closing: 09/30/97                   09/30/99 (35030)
                                                                                                    12/31/00 (35040)
                                                                                                    12/31/02 (35050)



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          S.PAULO/PARANA STS./SECRETARIATS OF ST
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shaid S. Husain
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Armeane M. Choksi
Sector Manager/Director:        John Henry Stein                               Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Carlos E. Vélez                                Emilio H. Rodriguez
ICR Primary Author:             Carl Bartone; Ana Maria Rodado


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S

                                                  QAG (if available)          ICR
                               Quality at Entry:                              S
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The general objective of the Water Quality and Pollution Control (PQA) project was to assist Brazil in
developing a cost-effective approach to water pollution control, through cost recovery mechanisms to
ensure the collection of sufficient revenues to finance the required investment subprojects. The project
promoted policy and institutional reforms that minimize allocative distortions. To obtain an efficient
allocation of resources, the project emphasized the internalization of externalities, encompassing all those
who bear the costs and benefits of water pollution control within the river basin. These general concerns
were built into the project's specific objectives, which were to:
(i)      Abate current water pollution levels, and preserve water quality, in the cities of São Paulo
(SãoPaulo State) and Curitiba (Paraná State);
(ii)     Help establish a sound policy for water pollution control in the two project states including the
creation of river basin management units;
(iii)    Help develop the financial capacity for the provision of services under the jurisdiction of the river
basin unit, based as much as possible on the "polluter-pays principle"; and
(iv)     Set up project preparation financing and assistance to help start water pollution control projects in
some of the most congested urban areas of Brazil.

The PQA project consisted of investments in, and institutional support for, two water pollution control
demonstration components in river basins within two of the most congested and polluted metropolitan areas
                                                                                            1
in Brazil: the Guarapiranga basin in São Paulo and the Upper Iguaçu basin in Curitiba. It also included a
national component to provide financing for project preparation and technical assistance for water pollution
control projects in other highly urbanized and industrialized areas of the country.

3.1.1 Guarapiranga Component Objectives
For the Guarapiranga Basin demonstration component, the main objective was to guarantee the
Guarapiranga Reservoir as a reliable water source capable of supplying the Metropolitan Region of São
Paulo (RMSP). Two related specific objectives were defined:
(i)      The development of institutional capabilities to manage the river basin in an environmentally
sustainable manner through the introduction of modern land-use incentives, cost recovery mechanisms, and
an efficient legal and regulatory framework; and
(ii)     The improvement of the quality of life of the 550,000 inhabitants of the river basin, especially
those living in slums (`favelas') and illegal settlements,  through the rehabilitation and expansion of basic
sanitation infrastructure, namely sewers, solid waste collection and disposal, and drainage in four
municipalities within the basin.

3.1.2 Alto Iguaçu Component Objectives
For the Alto Iguaçu Basin demonstration component, the two main objectives were to rehabilitate and
maintain the Alto Iguaçu River basin as a reliable water supply source for the Curitiba Metropolitan
Region (RMC), and to promote flood control and land reclamation in order to improve living conditions of
the existing population of the city and permit urban expansion. The component had five specific objectives:




                                                      - 2 -

(i)      To develop the institutional capabilities to manage the river basin in an environmentally sustainable
way by introducing modern land use incentives, cost-recovery mechanisms, and an efficient legal and
regulatory framework;
(ii)     To improve drainage and flood control for the Alto Iguaçu River and urban network;
(iii)    To rehabilitate and expand basic sewerage and wastewater treatment infrastructure;
(iv)     To optimize solid waste collection and disposal systems; and
(v)      To protect and rehabilitate both environmentally sensitive and degraded areas through park
development and reforestation.

3.1.3 National Component Objective
The general objective of the national component was to assist the Federal Government of Brazil (GoB) in
setting up project preparation facilities to help start water quality and pollution control projects in the most
congested areas of Brazil not addressed by the three demonstration components. These project preparation
facilities were designed to include, in addition to technical/engineering studies, government assistance on
river basin management studies. Priorities were given within the component to a group of metropolitan
regions and highly urbanized and industrialized areas with pressing environmental problems where
adequate conditions for implementation and operation were deemed to existed.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Most of the PQA project and component objectives were maintained unchanged throughout project
implementation.     The exception was the institutional development objective of the Guarapiranga
component. A major revision of the institutional development goals came late in the project when the Bank
agreed to amend the loan agreement and accept the creation of an interim body with technical capacity and
material resources to continue the implementation of the technical, legal and financial mechanisms
necessary for the establishment of the Guarapiranga Basin Agency (discussed below in section 4.1.1).

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components, each with a separate loan agreement. The total estimated cost
of the project at appraisal was US$494.1 million, of which US$245.0 million were financed through Bank
loans as follows:
·        São Paulo Water quality and pollution control in the Guarapiranga Basin: Loan 3504-BR to the
State of São Paulo for US$119.0 million (estimated cost US$261.9 million);
·        Paraná Water quality and pollution control in the Alto Iguaçu Basin: Loan 3405-BR to the State of
Paraná for US$117.0 million (estimated cost US$223.2 million); and
·        Federal Water quality and pollution control: Loan 3503-BR to the Federal Government for US$9
million (estimated cost US$9.0 million).

The project was to be implemented between 1993 and 1997.

3.3.1 Guarapiranga Component Description
The Guarapiranga component consisted of five main subcomponents as well as project management:
(i)      Water supply and sewerage works;
(ii)     Municipal solid waste collection and disposal;
(iii)    Urban upgrading/rehabilitation;
(iv)     Environmental protection; and
(v)      River basin management.




                                                       - 3 -

The water supply and sewerage works subcomponent (US$61.3 million at appraisal) included: (i) 45
km of interceptors and pressure mains; (ii) 13 pumping stations to export 840 lps of wastewater from the
Guarapiranga Basin to the downstream RMSP treatment system ; (iii) 264 km of sewer network expansion,
including 13,500 new connections; (iv) 45,000 sewer connections added to the existing sewer network; (v)
sewer system rehabilitation and maintenance, including about 18,000 individual repairs, pipe cleaning and
unclogging; (vi) automated sewer pumping operations; and (vii) improvement of the Alto da Boa Vista
drinking water treatment plant, introducing ozonification.

The municipal solid waste collection and disposal subcomponent (US$8.3 million at appraisal) was
designed to collect 100 percent of solid waste produced in the basin and included: (i) domestic and hospital
waste collection in interior municipalities; (ii) 2 incinerators for hospital wastes; (iii) a sanitary landfill for
Embu municipality; (iv) a 100 ton/day waste separation and recycling plant in the Municipality of São São
Paulo (PMSP) for 400,000 inhabitants; and (v) clean-up and closure of existing open dump waste sites in
the basin. This subcomponent was to be further defined based on a feasibility study for waste disposal in
the basin that was still being finalized at the time of appraisal. A basic premise of the plan was that only
waste from the three interior municipalities was to be treated and disposed within the basin, while waste
generated in PMSP was to be exported from the basin for treatment and disposal.

The urban rehabilitation subcomponent (US$97.6 million at appraisal) included: (i) construction and
rehabilitation of 25 km of drains; (ii) drainage construction and restoration of 1,300 ha of urban areas
subject to flooding; (iii) urban infrastructure (slope stabilization, drainage and sewer networks, paving and
walkways) for 17,200 families in 130 favelas; and (iv) land development and resettlement of 3,730 families
living in high-risk areas in 93 favelas within the basin.

The environmental protection subcomponent (US$31.2 million at appraisal) included: (i) replanting
1,800 ha of reservoir margins, river banks and parks; (ii) planting 26 ha of native vegetation in pilot
project; (iii) complete development of 430 ha of two recreational and ecological parks, and landscape
restoration in existing parks and two degraded mining areas; (iv) technical assistance for agriculture and
silviculture activities; and (v) a fish hatchery for restocking of reservoir and rivers in the basin.

The river basin management subcomponent (US$20.5 million at appraisal) included: (i) preparation of
studies and organization of the public and government consultation process needed to develop and establish
the Guarapiranga River Basin management agency; (ii) preparation of an environmental master plan for the
Guarapiranga River Basin that integrates sectoral plans for land use, sewerage, solid waste, mining
development, and water quality; (iii) training programs for river basin environmental management,
providing technical and financial support to NGOs and technical assistance to the four municipalities to
meet their own environmental planning and management needs; (iv) environmentally oriented management
information system; (v) monitoring and technical auditing by independent auditors. Including supply of
equipment and materials required to support the unit.

An additional subcomponent for project management support (US$7.2 million at appraisal) was to assist
the São-Paulo State Secretariat for Water Resources, Water Supply, Sanitation and Works
(Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento e Obras, SRH ) in setting up a project management unit
(Unidad Gerenciamiento do Programa São-Paulo, UGP-SP). The UGP-SP was designed to have full
responsibility for the implementation of the Guarapiranga component and to be composed, at a minimum,
of a coordinator, a financial analyst, an environmental engineer, a procurement officer, and a sociologist.
The UGP-SP was also designed to be supported by consulting services for studies and technical assistance;
field and deskwork, supervision, and project management.



                                                        - 4 -

The UGP-SP was to coordinate the carrying out of the component through five sectoral agencies. The
executing agencies were: the state water company (SABESP), PMSP, the state environmental agency
(SMA), the state housing and urban development company (Companhia de Desenvolvimento Habitacional
e Urban, CDHU), and the state electricity company (ELECTROPAULO). The UGP-SP was itself to be
the executing agency for all project studies and technical assistance. The executing agencies, which had the
requisite experience and staff from the carrying out of similar projects, were to execute the project
interventions assisted by consultants and under the supervision and control of the UGP-SP.
The total component cost, with contingencies, was estimated at US$262.0 million. Counterpart funding to
the Bank loan for US$119 million (45.4%) was to be provided as follows: (i) US$70.9 million (27.1%) by
the State Government of São-Paulo (GESP); (ii) US$39.8 million (15.2%) by SABESP; (iii) US$25.3
million (9.7%) by the PMSP; and (iv) US$7.0 million (2.7%) by ELECTROPAULO. The guarantor of the
loan was the GoB. In turn, the State of São Paulo guaranteed the full amount of counterpart funding
needed.

3.3.2 Alto Iguaçu (PROSAM) Component Description
The Alto Iguaçu component, officially designated Programa de Saneamento Ambiental do Regiao
Metropolitana de Curitiba (PROSAM), consisted of three subcomponents as well as project management:
(i)      Environmental management;
(ii)     Water resources protection and development; and
(iii)    Alto Iguaçu Basin environmental rehabilitation.

The environmental management subcomponent (US$19.5 million at appraisal) provided for water
quality and pollution control at the river basin level. It contained: (i) technical assistance and training to
government organizations and NGOs; (ii) the preparation of studies and organization of the public
consultation process to develop the institutional proposal for managing Alto Iguaçu river basin; (iii) the
creation of a database system containing environmental parameters, geographical data, and public services
coverage for planning and management at the urban and river basin level; (iv) preparation of a drainage
and land use master plan; (v) engineering studies for long-term water resources development; and (vi)
consultants, equipment, and materials to support the component coordinating unit.

The water resources protection and development subcomponent (US$58.2 million at appraisal)
included: (i) civil works which encompassed a small earthen dam on the Irai River to control flood waters
and also guarantee 2 m3/s for the Curitiba water supply system, plus a channel and pipe system to conduct
the Irai Reservoir water to the existing downstream potable water treatment plant; (ii) a program to
introduce environmentally safe practices for handling toxic chemicals used in agriculture and to build
sediment catchment dams for erosion control; (iii) a program to promote environmentally sustainable urban
development through construction of infrastructure for approximately 76,000 residents; (iv) the relocation
and resettlement of 1,400 families dispersed in areas unsafe or unsuitable for infrastructure construction
                                                                       2
(i.e., dispersed in flood plains or in raw water supply headwaters;       (v) expropriation of 7,000 plots of
private land and rights-of-way needed for environmental protection along rivers and environmentally
sensitive areas; (vi) improvement in the leachate drainage system of the Lamenha Pequena solid waste
sanitary landfill; (vii) improvements in the transport of toxic materials by heavy trucks by designing
improved traffic signals and road and bridge protective barriers; (viii) landscape restoration and planting of
50,000 trees for the reforestation of recreational areas and complete development of 26 ha in the Passauna
River Ecological Park.




                                                     - 5 -

The Alto Iguaçu river basin environmental rehabilitation subcomponent (US$113.3 million at
appraisal) included: (i) flood control, by constructing 15 km of channel parallel to the Iguaçu River to drain
the left river bank, landscape restoration, and park development of the river bank area; (ii) erosion and
flood control by expanding 16 km of urban drainage, stabilizing 100 km of slopes, cleaning 250 km of
drains, and rehabilitating 16 bridges; (iii) extension of coverage of the sewer network for the RMC from 40
to 65 percent, and of wastewater treatment from 17 to 65 percent, by providing 1,290 km of sewers and 8
fluidized bed anaerobic reactor treatment plants; (iv) extension of coverage of the solid waste collection
system for the RMC (which incorporates all surrounding municipalities) from 40 to 90 percent, by
constructing one additional sanitary landfill, new solid waste transfer stations, and by providing collection
equipment; and (v) separate disposal of hospital waste in an incinerator with a capacity of 16 tons per day.

The project management component (US$2.3 million at appraisal) provided support for the project
management unit (UGP-PR) established in the state secretariat for planning and general coordination
(Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenaçao Geral, SEPL). The UGP-PR was designed to have full
responsibility for the implementation of the Alto Iguaçu component and to be composed, at a minimum, of
a coordinator, a financial analyst, an environmental engineer, a procurement officer, and a sociologist. The
UGP-PR was also designed to be supported by consultants in the to carry out of its functions.

The executing agencies for PROSAM were originally three: the state water company (SANEPAR) for water
supply and sewerage works; the Municipality of Curitiba (PMC) for parks, urban drainage, and some
institutional activities; and the Curitiba Metropolitan Region Coordination body (Coordenacao da Regiao
Metropolitana de Curitiba, MEC) for coordination of resettlement activities, studies and technical
assistance. The first two agencies had experience with similar Bank projects and sufficient qualified staff.
The component provided for the institutional strengthening of COMEC, which was to be in charge of
carrying out most studies and technical assistance on behalf of other state agencies, and was a candidate to
be transformed into the river basin management unit.

The total cost of the Alto Iguaçu component with contingencies was estimated at US$223.2 million, of
which US$117.0 million (52.4%) was provide by the Bank loan. The balance was to be provided as
follows: (i) US$41.3 million (18.5%) by the State Government of Paraná (GEP); (ii) US$37.2 million
(16.7%) by SANEPAR; (iii) US$26.4 million (11.8%) by PMC; and (iv) US$1.3 million (0.6%) by other
municipalities. The loan guarantor was the GoB. In turn, the State of Paraná guaranteed the full amount
of counterpart financing needed, and provided revenues from exports as counter-guarantees to the Federal
Government.

3.3.3 National Component Description
This component included the preparation of technical and institutional plans for a group of subprojects in
priority metropolitan regions and river basins throughout the country. Priority subprojects were selected
based on the acuteness of the environmental deterioration in the target area, on existing institutional
capabilities of local institutions, and the expressed willingness of the community to carry out the project.

The national component included preparation work for the following subprojects:
(i)      Piracicaba-Capivari river basin in the State of São Paulo (US$2 million) including: management
         of water sources, and investments in municipal and industrial wastewater collection and
         treatment, solid waste collection and disposal, flood control works and storm drainage,
         urbanization and control of agrotoxics;
(ii)     Itajai River Basin in the State of Santa Catarina (US$2 million) including: flood control, multiple
         use of water resources, water supply and sanitation, industrial and agricultural pollution control;
(iii)    Mundau-Paranaiba river Basin in the State of Alagoas (US$1.5 million) including: flood control,


                                                      - 6 -

        industrial and agricultural pollution, and urban upgrading
(iv)    Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) in the State of Pernambuco (US$2 million) including: basic
        sanitation, flood control, wastewater treatment, solid waste, and urban upgrading; and
(v)     Manaus in the State of Amazonas (US$1.5 million): including: water supply and sanitation,
        urban upgrading, and solid waste management.

The designated executing agency of this project component was the then National Secretariat for Water
Supply and Sanitation (Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento, SNS) under the Ministry of Social Welfare
(MAS). To carry out the component, the SNS was to create a National Component Management Unit
(UGCN) with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The UGCN was to assist the local institutions in
the technical, financial and economical analysis of the proposed subprojects, in the identification of policy
instruments including cost recovery, in the preparation of surveys, studies and monitoring programs, in
formalizing agreements, contracts and institutional arrangements, in identifying alternatives for the
management of the selected river basins, and in completing engineering designs and financing applications.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Guarapiranga Component Revisions
During the implementation of this component, some physical works were eliminated and others were added.
On the whole, these constituted minor technical changes in the overall component activities.
ELECTROPAULO dropped out of the project and its share of counterpart funding for parks construction
was to be picked up by SMA and PMSP. (ELECTROPAULO owned the land where a major park was to
be constructed. The PMSP signed a 20-year concession to build and operate a park on the land, leaving
ELECTROPAULO without a direct role in the project.)

3.4.2 Alto Iguaçu (PROSAM) Component Revisions
Following the mid-term review of this component in June 1996, some adjustments were made to the
PROSAM activities. Many of these were of a technical nature and minor is scope, but some involved more
substantive revisions and are discussed below.

Revisions to the water resources protection and development subcomponent included (i) the design of
the water supply canal from the Irai dam was combined with the design of the flood control channel (see
below); (ii) substantial expansion of the number of irregular lots receiving sanitary infrastructure; and (iii)
landscape restoration interventions concentrated on the planting of some 1,000,000 m2 of linear urban
parks along tributaries of the Iguaçu River, and recuperation of the Belem river channel.

Revisions to the Alto Iguaçu river basin environmental rehabilitation subcomponent included: (i) the
flood control channel along the Iguaçu River was extended up to the Irai dam, incorporating the fresh water
drainage channel and avoiding duplication of works for both channels; and (iv) US$8 million for
construction of a regional transfer and disposal system was cancelled and replaced by the preparation of
bidding documents for a regional concession for transfer and disposal to be built with private investment.
Later, US$6 million were recovered via contract amendment to be applied to the environmental
management subcomponent (see below).

Revisions to the project management subcomponent were also required when it became apparent that
COMEC did not have the capacity to carry out the required studies and technical assistance on behalf of
other state agencies. The number of executing agencies was increased from three to six to include the state
environmental secretariat (Secretaria Estadual do Meio Ambiente, SEMA), the state superintendence for
water resources development and water supply and sanitation (Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento dos
Recursos Hidricos e Saneamento Ambiental, SUDERHSA) and the state environmental institute Instituto


                                                     - 7 -

Ambiental de Paraná (IAP) who carried out the needed studies and technical assistance within their
respective areas of interest.

Finally, while the laws establishing a State Water Resource Management System (SEGRH) and an
Integrated Headwater Protection System (SIGPROM) had been passed by 1999 and partially complemented
by detailed decrees, the project's two major institutions (basin agency and watershed management council)
had yet to be operationalized by the closing date. A two-year second phase to the loan was designed by the
Borrower in consultation with the Bank to address this shortcoming, by revising the environmental
management subcomponent. Essentially, this second phase allowed more time to fully achieve the
component's institutional objectives, that is, to create the basin agency and council. A second and related
objective was to extend the area of influence of the basin agency to include an adjacent watershed (the Alto
Ribeira) within its hydrographic boundaries. Revisions included: (a) setting up and staffing the two
entities; (b) completing the development of the planning, management and monitoring tools for these entities
under phase 1 (cadastres, information systems, hydraulic and water quality simulation models, an
integrated set of plans for watershed and land use management); (c) establishing water use and wastewater
discharge levies; (d) providing additional training to public and private entities involved with the water
basin and land use management systems; and (e) documenting the Paraná experience to support similar
initiatives throughout Brazil. This extension was funded by reallocating US$6 million recovered from the
previous cancellation of the construction of the regional solid waste transfer and disposal system.

3.4.3 National Component Revisions
The Federal Government maintained the Piracicaba/SP and Recife/PE subprojects within the component;
whereas the following subprojects were withdrawn: (i) Manaus/AM (alternative financing was obtained
from the IDB under the preparation of a proposed investment loan); (ii) Itajaí-Açu/SC (studies were
initiated with JICA financing); and (iii) Mundaú-Parnaíba/AL (the necessary institutional take-up didn't
occur). The mentioned projects were withdrawn and substitute by projects in (i) the Paraíba do Sul basin
involving Paraíba São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro; (ii) the Baixo Paraguaçu and Alto Subaé
basins which are influenced by the municipality of Feira de Santana in Bahia state; and (iii) tributary
watersheds to the Sepetiba basin in the region of Jacaperpagua, in the state of Rio de Janeiro. The latter
subproject was eventually cancelled, and at the request of the State Governor of Rio de Janeiro, and the
corresponding resources reallocated for technical studies in Paraiba do Sul in Rio de Janeiro, and for
supporting the UGCN.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of the project predated the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Quality at entry
for the PQA project is rated as Satisfactory by the ICR.

The objectives of the PQA project were at the time, and still remain, highly relevant to Brazil's
development priorities and consistent with the Bank's present and earlier CAS's. Indeed, the latest CAS
2003-2007 gives priority both to extending an integrated approach to water pollution control and urban
upgrading, and to equitable access to water supply, sanitation and other urban services, especially for the
poor. An integrated approach to water pollution control and urban upgrading is advocated in the latest
CAS, with the São Paulo, Paraná and Minas Gerais PQAs being presented as successful examples of
effective, integrated, metropolitan approaches to tackling water quality, water resources management,
brown environmental agenda and quality-of-life issues. The PQA project also represents a cutting-edge
example of `mainstreaming' environmental concerns with sectoral operations ­ an approach which is now
broadly advocated by the environment family within the Bank. The ICR concludes that the project
objectives were Satisfactory.




                                                     - 8 -

The PQA project design reflects the complex nature and challenges of the brown environmental agenda in
Brazil and the necessarily sophisticated response that is required in order to find integrated solutions for the
management of water quality, land use, and urbanization and quality-of-life improvements for the poor at
the river basin level, including the introduction of new institutional and financing models. Notwithstanding
the complexity of the project, the component and subcomponent designs responded to the objectives by
stressing cost-effective investments and actions aimed at solving high priority problems in the respective
river basins. During project preparation, considerable effort was made to ensure that effective project
management units were created for each component. Also, project preparation was carried out in both the
Guarapiranga and Alto Iguaçu basins by working groups made up of key state and municipal stakeholders
that would later be engaged in project implementation. In both basins, this led to the clear identification of
who would be the executing agency of each subcomponent, and who would be providing counterpart
funding for specific subcomponents. The ICR concludes that project design was Satisfactory.
The analysis of project risk at the project preparation stage focused on three key areas of risk associated
with the Guarapiranga and Alto Iguaçu basin components:

(i)     Institutional integration: The main project risks identified in the SAR were those associated with
the components' innovative character and the requirements for institutional integration at the state and local
level. These risks were carefully evaluated during project preparation, and judged worth taking. A number
of mitigating measures were incorporated, foremost being the formation of cross-sectoral and
inter-municipal working groups to carry out subcomponent designs. These working groups also involved
representatives of civil society, and helped make sure the clients understood the project and were fully
committed to it. This resulted in a high level of ownership in the resulting project. The institutions
involved in each basin decided to create the respective UGP at the state level with responsibility for overall
supervision and coordination with the executing agencies. In turn, the executing agencies all had highly
qualified staff with experience in Bank or similar projects, and recognized the critical importance of the
watersheds as irreplaceable water sources for the respective metropolitan areas. Finally, another mitigating
measure was to employ highly qualified and experienced national and international consultants and
specialists, both during project preparation and implementation.

(ii)    Resettlement: In both basins, significant populations lived in favela areas that physically could not
be upgraded and/or were at risk of flooding. This included some 3,730 families living in high-risk areas in
some 93 favelas in the Guarapiranga basin, and 1,400 families in high-risk and flood-prone areas of the
Alto Iguaçu basin. Thus resettlement was recognized as a major risk and was given special attention
during project preparation and guarantees sought for early implementation. Every effort was made to
ensure that the relocation of these families was unavoidable and the total number of families to be resettled
was kept to an absolute minimum. Detailed resettlement plans were prepared for both basin components,
and during negotiations the respective state governments were able to show that funding was available for
land acquisition for new settlement areas as well as for housing construction. Furthermore, by negotiation
land was acquired for 500 families in the Guarapiranga basin and 700 families in the Alto Iguaçu basin,
and engineering designs for the first housing projects in both basins were completed.

(iii)   Policy reforms: Major efforts were made in the preparation of both the basin components and the
national component to help introduce modern policy instruments for water pollution control in Brazil.
Among the policy instruments the project sought to introduce were: charging mechanisms for water
abstraction and wastewater discharges; institutional mechanisms such as river basin agencies; and planning
instruments for integrated water quality and land use management such as water quality modeling and
geographic information systems. Though the need for these policy changes was broadly recognized at the
technical level, their implementation was anticipated to encounter political difficulties. This was judged to
be a risk worth taking. Looking back, the project had an overly ambitious timeline for policy reform, but


                                                      - 9 -

insistence on these policy goals over the long-term did lead to the desired outcomes.

The Bank's 2003 Water Resources Sector Strategy states that "the main management challenge is not a
vision of integrated water resources management but a principled (providing guidance on what needs to be
done) and pragmatic (understanding that the art of reform is the art of the possible in specific
circumstances) approach for improvement.", reflecting precisely the approach that the PQA project adopted
on policy reforms during implementation. Indeed, the SAR was prophetic in stating:
                     "Even though implementation of the needed changes is delayed, the component will be
                     instrumental in helping Brazilian authorities to develop appropriate technologies for
                     overcoming existing sector problems."

The ICR concludes that both the assessment of risks and the approach to risk management during project
preparation were Satisfactory.

The safeguard policies applied to this project, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP 4.37 (Safety of
Dams) and OD 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement), are considered Satisfactory. To assess the project's
environmental impact, the executing agencies are required by Federal Law to prepare environmental impact
reports (RIMAs) which follow State guidelines and are approved by the respective State Environmental
Agency (CETESB in São Paulo and SUREHMA in Paraná).                  The State guidelines, which are quite
elaborate for diagnostic purposes, were complemented by Bank guidelines for EAs, which are more detailed
regarding developing and evaluating options and making recommendations.            The EA/RIMA for both
components were prepared following these guidelines and approved by the State authorities. During Loan
Negotiations, assurances were obtained from the State of Paraná that prior to construction of the Irai Dam
the executing agency would submit to the Bank satisfactory evidence of compliance with the Bank's
guidelines on dam safety. The resettlement plans in São Paulo and Paraná were carefully prepared, as
described under risk management above, and were in compliance with Bank guidelines.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the PQA project is rated Satisfactory, as ultimately the project successfully
achieved its objectives and contributed to the development of an integrated approach to water quality
management in Brazil, and demonstrated its regional implementation in three major states each larger than
                      3
many LAC countries. Specifically, the project helped to abate water pollution and preserve water quality
in the Guarapiranga and Alto Iguaçu river basins, assisted the two project states in establishing sound
policies for water pollution control and in creating river basin management units, motivated the
establishment of water abstraction and wastewater discharge fees in both states, and helped prepare new
water pollution control projects in four of the most congested and urbanized river basins in Brazil.
Furthermore, the project helped demonstrate the significant linkages between water quality and access to
basic sanitary services for the urban poor, and demonstrate successful approaches to urban rehabilitation
and resettlement, as well as the importance of concomitantly improving the quality-of-life and the local
environment for the poor who suffer most from the effects of urban environmental degradation and risk.
To better assess these achievements, each project component is analyzed separately.

4.1.1 Guarapiranga Component
The component outcome is rated Satisfactory. The component achieved its general objective, namely to
preserve the Guarapiranga Reservoir as a reliable water source for the RMSP.            Notwithstanding a
population increase in the basin during implementation from 550,000 to 800,000 inhabitants, pollution
loads on the reservoir have been significantly reduced. This was accomplished by actions to extend


                                                    - 10 -

sanitary sewers to most of the population in the watershed including some 130 favelas, treat wastewater
discharges in the interior of the watershed, export wastewater from communities immediately surrounding
the reservoir to a wastewater treatment plant in an adjacent watershed, close solid waste dumps and
introduce sanitary landfills, intercept and treat stormwater flows into the reservoir, introduce parks and
recreational activities in environmentally sensitive areas, and improve the efficiency of the Alto da Boa
Vista drinking water treatment plant. The component also developed the tools needed for improved
management of the reservoir and its drainage area, and helped create an interim watershed management
body and prepare draft legislation for establishing water use charges as a means of financing the activities
of the agency.

Institutional Objectives and Outcomes: Regarding the first specific objective, to develop institutional
capabilities to manage the Guarapiranga basin in an environmentally sustainable manner, the component
substantially achieved its goals. One of the most important outcomes of the component was the drafting,
and later approval by the State Legislature of State Law 9.866/97 to protect water supply headwaters (and
subsequent regulation through State Decree 43.022/98). The importance of this legislation is that it ties the
management of protected watersheds to the State System of Water Resources Management (SIGRH) ­
established by State Law No. 7.663/91 ­ thus allowing for the introduction of a planning mechanism not
then available at the metropolitan region level, and introduces new instruments for linking land use and
water quality. The component produced a key tool for watershed protection in the basin development and
environmental protection plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento e Proteção Ambiental, PDPA), supported by a
model correlating land use and water quality, a geographic information system, and a water quality
information system.

Also approved was State Law 10.020/98 that stipulates that basin agencies are established as foundations
with State participation, and are directed by tripartite committees with representatives of the state,
municipalities, and civil society including water users. Furthermore, it establishes conditions for the
creation of such agency foundations. A Sub-Committee for the Cotia-Guarapiranga Basins was established
in 1997, and a proposal was formulated for the creation of the Guarapiranga Basin Sub-Agency within the
                           4
Alto Tiete Basin Agency. A draft law was also prepared introducing water use charges. Without the
legislative approval of this draft law and the final establishment of the Alto Tiete Basin Agency, the
component's institutional goal could not be fully achieved by the planned closure date. In June 1999, the
Bank approved an amendment to the loan agreement that stipulated the creation of an interim body with
technical capacity and material resources to continue the implementation of the technical, legal and
financial mechanisms necessary for the establishment of the Guarapiranga Basin Sub-Agency.              The
continuation of this technical support was guaranteed for two years by the SRH, and a Protocol of
Intentions signed with other state and municipal members of the Cotia-Guarapiranga Sub-Committee to
guarantee additional support for this transitional arrangement. At the time of closure (December 2000), the
Cotia-Guarapiranga Sub-Committee was finalizing a proposal to use proceeds of the FEHIDRO fund for
the Alto Tiete basin to contract a consulting firm that would provide technical assistance to the interim
body until the needed legislation is passed.

Physical Objectives and Outcomes: In terms of the second specific objective, to improve the quality of life
for the inhabitants of the Guarapiranga Basin, the component fully achieved its goal. Beneficiaries include:
45,869 households with new household connections to sanitary sewers, 55,000 inhabitants of urban
agglomerations within the interior of the basin provided with wastewater treatment, 17,600 favela families
with upgraded housing and improved quality of life, and 2,839 families at risk relocated to new housing;
38,050 families with improved urban infrastructure; and 3 million inhabitants in the RMSP that received
better quality drinking water due to water quality improvements in the reservoir and improvements at the



                                                     - 11 -

water treatment works. Indeed, as a result of these interventions, SABESP was able to continue to use
water from Guarapiranga to serve RMSP during the severe drought of 2000/2001, despite its low water
levels and conditions which would have previously rendered it unusable for water supply. Furthermore, the
number of customer complaints in RMSP concerning potable water quality, generally, and taste and odor
problems specifically, declined following component completion. In addition, the low-income populations in
the basin benefited from solid waste collection coverage increases from 58% to 93% and landfill
improvements in interior municipalities; the export of 77,300 m3/day of wastewater to be treated outside
the basin ; and the addition of 6 recreational parks totaling 685 ha in environmentally sensitive or
deteriorated areas.

4.1.2 Alto Iguaçu Component
The component outcome is rated Satisfactory. The component achieved its two main objectives, namely to
preserve the Alto Iguaçu basin as a reliable water source for the RMC, and to promote flood control and
land reclamation. Notwithstanding an annual growth rate in the RMC of 3.4% during the ten years of
project implementation, water quality was maintained at initial levels. Pollution loads were reduced by
expanding sanitary sewerage coverage from 45% to 50% and by increasing wastewater treatment from
17% to 64%. The construction of the Irai Reservoir for water supply and flood control reservoir assured
1.6 m3/s of additional supply, benefiting 700,000 inhabitants, and the reservoir was capable of controlling
                                                                      5
floods during a potentially disastrous rain event in January 1999, as well as avoiding water rationing
during a severe five month drought in early 2000. The component also developed the tools needed for
improved management of the reservoir and its drainage area. The most significant achievement of the
component was the creation of a watershed management agency, the establishment of water use rights, and
the negotiation and regulation of a system of water abstraction and wastewater discharges levies as a means
of financing the activities of the new agency ­ all three of which were among the first in Brazil. It is only
because the latter accomplishments have been negated by the subsequent refusal to implement them by the
new state government administration that took office in 2003, that this component is not rated as Highly
Satisfactory.
Institutional Objectives and Outcomes:         With regard to the first specific objective to develop the
institutional capabilities to manage the river basin in an environmentally sustainable way, the project fully
achieved its goals. State Law No. 12.726/99 establishes the System for Water Resources Management
(SEGRH) in Paraná and lays out the institutional framework for creating river basin agencies. A second
State Law, No. 12.248/98, establishes the Integrated System for Management and Protection of
Headwaters (SIGPROM), allows for the constitution of tripartite watershed management councils (state,
municipal and civil society including water users for water supply headwaters, and links land use policy
with water quality management. SIGPROM was defined as an integral part of SEGRH. Regulations for
implementing both of these laws have been decreed, including a decree establishing a new system for
granting water use rights, and a decree creating water abstraction and wastewater discharge levies that was
                                                      6
laboriously negotiated with water users in the basin.
Within this legal structure, the first river basin agency in Brazil was created and became operational prior
to project closure ­ the Alto Iguaçu and Alto Ribeira Basin Agency (AGHIR). Since both the Iguaçu and
Ribeira rivers are classified as federal waterways, an agreement was negotiated between ANA and the GEP
in which ANA delegated authority to the GEP to manage these federal waterways on ANA's behalf ­ again,
the first agreement of its type in Brazil.Financial simulations indicate that the projected water use levy
system could generate 35-40% of the investments and operational costs foreseen for water resources
management actions over the next 20 years. However, as mentioned above, the current state government
administration that assumed power after project completion has refused to implement this water quality
management system and these important project achievements are now threatened. This is surprising since
the project was originally prepared during 1991-92 when the present Governor was previously in office,


                                                     - 12 -

and the project loan agreement was actually signed by the present Governor himself in December 1992.

Physical Objectives and Outcomes: The other four specific objectives were also fully achieved. Storm
drainage and flood control works effectively reduced the frequency and severity of floods, benefiting some
100,000 inhabitants. The Irai Reservoir and channel provided a large part of the flood protection, as well
as additional water supply for 700,000 inhabitants. As mentioned above, the reservoir has already in its
short lifetime demonstrated its capacity to control flooding during an intensive rainfall event, and to avoid
water rationing during an extended period of drought. The rehabilitation and expansion of the sanitary
sewer network and household connections benefited 300,000 inhabitants, and wastewater treatment
benefited a third of the RMC population. Treatment of leachates from the closed Lamenha Piquena
dumpsite was also provided. The groundwork was laid for optimizing the solid waste collection, transfer
and disposal system for the RMC, and cost recovery was improved. A system was implemented for
hospital waste management, and the controls put in place for the transport of hazardous wastes. Finally,
efforts to protect and rehabilitate both environmentally sensitive and damaged areas through park
development and reforestation succeeded in providing 55 m2/person of green space in the RMC, creating
recreational opportunities for local populations and raising property values.

4.1.3 National Component
The National component outcome is rated as Satisfactory. The component achieved its general objective
of setting up a project preparation facility and helping start up water quality and water pollution control
projects in the other metropolitan areas and highly urbanized and industrialized areas.

While the project was initiated during a lull in Federal leadership in this area, this changed in 1997 with the
passage of Federal Law No. 9.433/97 defining a national water policy and creating the National System of
Water Resources Management based on river basin management and integrating water quality and quantity
considerations. This component has contributed to the next step of helping define the states' water
resources policies. The National Water Agency (ANA) was created in 2000, after completion of the
national component, with the mandate to implement the national water resources policy.          ANA has been
able to provide continuity of federal support for the implementation of the state subprojects prepared under
the national component, as well as to the state components.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Outputs of Guarapiranga Component
This component is rated as Satisfactory. As discussed in the following paragraphs, the physical outputs
expected at appraisal were met or exceeded, although with considerable delays and at a substantially higher
counterpart cost principally for urban rehabilitation. The institutional outputs that were achieved were less
than expected at appraisal but fully met the amended targets.

Institutional Outputs: The targets of the river basin management subcomponent were substantially
achieved. Outputs (US$24.89 million actual cost, or 90% of estimated cost at appraisal) included: (i)
preparation of proposals and consultation processes for the organization of a Guarapiranga basin agency
and accompanying draft legislation on headwater protection, creation of basin agency foundations, and
water use charges; and proposals for the interim solution adopted prior to closure; (ii) preparation of the
(Plano de Desenvolvimento e Proteção Ambiental, PDPA) for the basin, and technical studies leading to a
solid waste management strategy, control of mining activities, limnological and ecological diagnostic of the
reservoir, evaluation of diffuse pollution sources in reservoir tributaries, and others; (iii) training of 210
technical staff from executing agencies, municipalities, public agencies and NGOs; capacity building for 44
community leaders and 26 NGOs; and support for creation of environmental education network and a
recycling cooperative; (iv) establishment of a geographical information system for basin management SIG,



                                                    - 13 -

a water quality monitoring and information system (SIQUA), and a model for correlating water quality and
land use (MQUAL); and (v) supply of equipment and materials to support information systems, integrated
monitoring, fish hatchery, and logistical and office support for the coordinating unit and interim body.

Physical Outputs: The original water and sewerage works subcomponent targets were achieved and
additional works identified during component execution were added. Outputs (US$86.78 million actual
cost, or 142% of estimated) included: (i) 79 km of collectors and interceptors; (ii) 24 pumping stations to
export 895 lps of wastewater; (iii) 45,869 household connections to the 394 km of the expanded sanitary
sewer system; (iv) 7,579 new connections to the existing sewer system (the target 40,000 connections were
constructed but not connected pending finalization, under separate financing, of the Barueri treatment
works designed to treat the exported wastewater outside of the basin ) and two wastewater treatment plants
were constructed in municipalities within the basin ; (v) sewer system rehabilitation and maintenance was
carried out as planned; (vi) automated sewer pumping operations were implemented; and (vii) technical
solutions were developed and implemented at the Alto da Boa Vista drinking water treatment plant.

The municipal solid waste collection and disposal subcomponent was modified and substantially reduced
as a result of the technical studies conducted during the first phase of the component. The final outputs
(US$4.91 million actual cost, or 59% of estimated) included: (i) rather than exporting or incinerating all
municipal solid waste generated in the basin, two municipal dumpsites at Embu and Itapercerica da Serra
were rehabilitated and converted to sanitary landfills; (ii) a significant investment was made in equipping
the municipalities of Embu, Embu-Guaçu and Itapercerica da Serra to expand and improve solid waste
services; and (iii) a recycling center for scavengers (catadores) was constructed in Embu.

The urban rehabilitation subcomponent targets were achieved, but at a much higher cost than estimated
at appraisal. Outputs (US$200.21 million actual cost, or 205% of estimated) included: (i) community
infrastructure improvements such as road paving and improved access for garbage collection, improved
storm drainage, construction of retention walls and slope stabilization in areas subject to erosion, all
benefiting some 38,200 families; (ii) favela upgrading by provision of sanitary sewers, storm drainage,
slope stabilization, paving and improved vehicle and pedestrian access, all benefiting 17,600 families in 86
favelas; and (iii) relocation and resettlement of 2,839 favela families deemed to be at risk. Care was taken
to minimize the number of families affected, and to reduce the number that were relocated to new housing
developments (1,764 families) by constructing housing units within existing favelas undergoing upgrading
(869 families), or homes in favelas ceded by owners preferring to take on assume financing of apartments
in new housing developments (206 families benefited by the so-called `chessboard arrangement' -see Annex
10).

The environmental protection subcomponent achieved its targets. Outputs (US$21.79 million actual
cost, or 70% of estimated) included: (i) planting of 1.5 million trees along reservoir and river banks, and
recovery of 22 public areas as urban parks or football fields; (ii) development of six recreational parks
totaling 685 ha, including recovery of degraded mining areas; and (iii) studies of agriculture and
silviculture in the basin, establishment of a fish hatchery to restock the reservoir and rivers, and
revitalization of the historic center of Embu.

4.2.2 Outputs of Alto Iguaçu Component
This component is rated as Satisfactory. The expected physical and institutional outputs indicated at
appraisal were met or exceeded, although with considerable delays.

Institutional Outputs: The environmental management subcomponent targets were fully met, even



                                                     - 14 -

though it required 10 years to accomplish them. This was not the result of slow execution, but of an
extremely ambitious schedule in a sensitive field in which neither the Bank nor the client had much
practical experience. The outputs (US$20.7 million actual cost, or 106% of estimated) included: (i) the
component was instrumental in establishing the integrated model for water resources management and
creating the basin agency AGHIR as described above, through the preparation of studies and draft
legislation and decrees, a public consultation process for the institutional proposals, and training
opportunities for government staff; (ii) a comprehensive geographic information system was developed that
integrates information previously dispersed, along with a land use monitoring and information system and a
cadastre of water resource users; (iii) preparation of a set of integrated plans including a drainage master
plan, a plan for pollution control in the basins, a plan for the integrated development of the RMC, a plan for
land use and protection of water supply watersheds, and a plan for monitoring and enforcement; (iv)
preparation of studies for future water supply development focused on Karst aquifers; and (v) in addition to
logistical support for the UGP-PR and AGHIR an institutional modernization activity was added to
strengthen SUDERHSA and equip it to carry out its new role in managing SEGRH.

Physical Outputs: The targets of the water resources protection and development subcomponent were
fully met. Outputs (US$66.3 million actual cost, or 114% of estimated) included: (i) construction of the
Irai dam and reservoir to provide flood control benefiting some 100,000 persons living is flood-prone areas,
and to supply 1.6 m3/s benefiting some 700,000 inhabitants; (ii) implementation of activities for soil
conservation and erosion protection especially in areas of Karst aquifers; (iii) construction of 160 km of
water supply network, 308 km of sanitary sewers, and 2 wastewater treatment plants benefiting 17,964
poor families living in headwater areas (compared to 14,420 benefited families estimated at appraisal(iv)
the relocation and resettlement of 1,433 families living in high-risk areas of          headwater areas, and
expropriation of 400 lots (compared to 1,400 families resettled and 7,000 lots expropriated as estimated at
appraisal); (v) rehabilitation of the closed Lamenha Piquena dumpsite with addition of leachate treatment
and gas control thus eliminating a pollution source in the Passauna River; (vi) implementation of a program
to reduce road accidents involving transport of hazardous materials, specifically protecting the Passauna
River; and (vii) planting of over one million trees, and development of three recreational parks.

The Alto Iguaçu river basin environmental rehabilitation subcomponent fully met its targets. Outputs
(US$167.5 million actual cost, or 148% of estimated) included: (i) construction of 28.8 km flood control
channel along the Iguaçu River that also serves to bring raw water for potable supply from the Irai dam;
(ii) expansion of the urban drainage system including 63.1 km of drains, slope stabilization, and
rehabilitation of 32 deteriorated bridges; (iii) expansion of the Curitiba sanitary sewer network including
1,064 km of collectors and interceptors, 59,879 household connections, 7 pumping stations, and 8
wastewater treatment plants benefiting a third of the city population; (iv) increased solid waste collection
coverage up to 95% and fee collection up to 87%, and preparation of bidding documents for a concession
arrangement for a metropolitan transfer and disposal system (however, no successful bid was achieved);
and (v) implementation of a modern hospital waste system based on procurement of 6 mobile incinerators
with 3.5 tpd capacity and an industrial autoclave with 10 tpd capacity.

4.2.3 Outputs of National Component
The National component outputs are rated as Satisfactory, although only four of five planned investment
studies were prepared. Each study produced a recommended investment strategy that was presented and
discussed with respective stakeholders in final seminars. The four studies all gave priority to institutional
arrangements in line with the water resources management policy set out in Federal Law No. 9.433/97
instituting the National System of Water Resources Management, while adjusting for the lessons learned in
the PQA demonstration projects with regard to achieving institutional objectives.              The conceptual
framework of the PQA was maintained in each study and attention given to prioritization of


                                                      - 15 -

multidisciplinary actions from three points of view: quantitative and qualitative impacts on the basin's
water resources; economic and financial feasibility with a focus on cost-effectiveness and benefit
estimation; and the political and administrative feasibility of each action. The investment studies have
resulted in concrete implementation actions in three of the four sub-projects:

·        The Paraíba do Sul study served to strengthen the Committee for Integrating the Paraíba do Sul
River Basin (Comite para Integracao da Bacia Hidrografica do Rio Paraíba do Sul, CEIVAP) and
resulted in prioritized twenty-year investment programs for preventive and corrective measures of water
quality management in the states of Rio de Janeiro (US$ 1.49 million) and São Paulo (US$ 0.77 million)
and an investment program for the state of Minas Gerais is in the final stages of preparation. Currently,
the integrated PQA for Paraíba do Sul is being implemented, and efforts continue toward establishing a
multi-state Basin Agency, with federal participation, and the water use charging system.
·        The Piracicaba, Capivari and Jundiaí (PCJ) study resulted in the preparation of a Basin Action
Plan prioritizing investments (US$ 1.07 million over 20 years) in three areas: (i) water resources
management; (ii) services and works; and (iii) water quality. It is anticipated that 39% of the needed funds
would be derived from eventual water user charges. Institutionally, it is proposed that São Paulo will
initially create a state Basin Agency, and it would eventually be expanded through joint agreements with
the Union and the state of Minas Gerais.
·        The Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR) study for the Capibariba, Beberibe and Jagoatao basins
gave rise to a strategic investment program ($US 1.10 million in the first phase), including the recently
signed World Bank loan for the Pró-Metrópole project with the state government of Pernambuco to provide
integrated environmental services in low-income areas of the RMR, and the recently identified Capiberibe
Melhor project with the municipal government of Recife.
·        The Baixo Paraguaçu and Alto Subaé study identified a set of structural and non-structural actions
for water quality management in the basins and proposed an investment program (US$0.47 million over 20
years.) As yet, however, no progress is reported on implementation of the recommended priority actions.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Guarapiranga Component ERR
The economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at time of appraisal was 17.3% (with a B/C ratio of 1.01).
On completion of the project, the ERR was re-estimated at 15.7% with a slightly higher B/C ratio at 1.20.
For the economic analysis, market costs were converted into social costs, and the segments referring to
taxes and subsidies disaggregated. Benefits were estimated on the basis of users' Willingness-to-Pay,
employing the same methodology used at appraisal the Cost/Benefit for the Water and Sewage Systems
Component of 0.64 is less than the 1.16 value estimated at appraisal. Actual changes in the project
implementation schedule is the most significant variable explaining this difference. The Cost/Benefit for the
Urban Rehabilitation Component of 0.41 is also less than the estimated value at appraisal (0.58), reflecting
specific changes introduced at the request of the PMSP. On the contrary, the Cost/Benefit for the
Environmental Protection Component of 0.59 exceeds the initial estimate (0.39), as some of the works were
not executed. The economic impact of the project is rated Satisfactory. A detailed analysis is presented in
Annex 3.

4.3.2 Alto Iguaçu Component ERR
The ERR estimated at appraisal was 59%, with a B/C ratio of 1.55 for a set of conservative assumptions.
The ERR and the B/C ratio at the end of the project were re-estimated higher than appraisal reaching
98.4% and 4.37 respectively. For the calculation of th economic benefits, costs were assessed basically
avoiding opportunity cost and changes in property prices where taken as an objective indication of people's
willingness to pay for environmental improvements and a better quality of life.The willingness to pay for
environmental improvements were evaluated on the basis of an priory decision by society to achieve


                                                    - 16 -

environmental standards within the context of legal provisions.The economic impact of the project is rated
Highly Satisfactory. A more detailed analysis is presented in Annex 3.

4.3.3 National Component ERR
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 Guarapiranga Component FIRR
The financial rate of return (FIRR) estimated at the time of appraisal was 8.3%. On completion of the
project, the FIRR was 5.9%. The program overall achieved a recovery ratio of 0.57, similar to that
presented in the SAR of 0.62 in the optimistic hypothesis. The cost recovery was evaluated separately
component by component. The rate of return for Water and Sewerage was re-estimated at 8.2%, lower than
the appraisal estimate of 14.4% . The number of new wastewater systems built exceeded that initially
planned. This resulted from a reassessment at the outset of the Program of new target areas potentially
beneficial to the river basin waste water system.For the purpose of our analysis, the total cost of the
Program was (in US$ thousands):
US$ 338.595 whereas costs originally budgeted amounted to US$ 261.932 . The discrepancy between the
above figures arises basically from the value of projected investments and money spent on additional
projects executed by the Municipality of Sao Paulo (PMSP). The PMSP made a larger financial
counterpart contribution than originally foreseen in the Loan Agreement. The financial impact of the
project is rated Satisfactory. A more detailed analysis is presented in Annex 3.

4.4.2 Alto Iguaçu Component FIRR
The FIRR estimated at appraisal was 10.2% (with a B/C ratio of 0.79)                for a set of conservative
suppositions. The re-estimated rate of return was 13.1% and achieved a C/B ratio of 0.98. The financial
benefits identified arise from charging tariffs and fees, clearly indicated on a component-by-component
basis. The criteria were adopted on the basis of suitability for the type of undertakings proposed and in the
light of appropriate available information. Utilization of this type of criteria avoids double accounting. The
financial impact of the project is rated Satisfactory. A more detailed analysis is presented in Annex 3.

4.4.3 National Component FIRR
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact of the project is rated Highly Satisfactory. Although the
original institutional goals were overly optimistic in terms of the expected time frame for achievement, the
perseverance with which the Bank and the Borrowers pursued these goals and the willingness of the Bank
to provide technical assistance and to extend the project until substantial progress was realized allowed for
substantial impacts to occur. The project has left an invaluable conceptual base and methodological
approaches that have been consolidated and disseminated in Brazil and worldwide, and that only now ­ ten
years after initiation ­ are seen to have provided substantive new advances in the management of complex
water pollution control, brown environmental agenda, urbanization and quality of life problems facing
states and municipalities. In this regard, the pioneering role of the PQA project is clearly recognized in a
                                                                                                    7
recent Bank study on mainstreaming the environment and water quality management in Brazil. The best
evidence of the importance of the project results is that the CAS 2003-2007 has fully incorporated and
given priority to the integrated approach to water quality management and pollution control, urban
upgrading and basic service provision which resulted from the project.




                                                     - 17 -

4.5.1 Guarapiranga Component
The institutional development impact of the Guarapiranga component is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The
Guarapiranga program greatly influenced the development of the water resources management framework
in São Paulo. The new legislation establishing the framework, policies and instruments for headwater
protection in the State of São Paulo (State Law No. 9.866/97 and State Decree 43.022/98) were based on
drafts prepared by the program, and specifically incorporates instruments prepared by the component such
as the PDPA, sophisticated land use and water quality correlation models, geographic information systems
for management. Also approved was State Law No. 10.020/98 setting up the foundations for participatory
basin agencies.     The Guarapiranga program was also largely responsible for the decision to create
sub-committees in the respective sub-basins of the Alto Tiete Basin, leading to more decentralized
management and monitoring of sub-basins of strategic interest. This also resulted in the creation of the
Cotia-Guarapiranga Sub-Committee. The program was instrumental in preparing draft legislation for
introducing water use charges, and in promoting the public debate on these proposals. Also, the program
has had an active role in finding an interim solution pending approval of the needed legislation.

Following project completion, steady progress has been made in the continued development of the
institutional framework. The Alto Tiete Basin Agency has now been created, within which a sub-agency
for Guarapiranga can now function. Financial resources remain tight while the draft law establishing water
use charges is still pending approval by the state assembly. Finally, as provided for in State Law No.
9.866/97 on headwater protection, a separate draft law specifically for the protection of the Guarapiranga
watershed was presented to the state assembly in February 2004, and is expected to be approved this year
as it is strongly supported by the Governor, the municipal assemblies and NGOs.

4.5.2 Alto Iguaçu Component
The institutional development impact of the Alto Iguaçu component is rated as Highly Satisfactory at the
time of project closure. The institutional development impacts of PROSAM were highly significant.
PROSAM was directly responsible for the conceptualization and approval of the new legislation for the
protection of headwaters, SIGPROM (State Law No. 12.248/98), and for the creation of SEGRH (State
Law No. 12.726/99) and the corresponding seven decrees regulating it, including the establishment of water
use levies. PROSAM also assisted in the establishment, installation and operation of AGHIR, the first basin
agency in Brazil, and the expansion of SEGRH in the principal basins of Paraná such as Tibagi, Pirapo,
Jordao, Paraná III, Medio Iguaçu and parts of Parenapanema based on this institutional model. Finally, the
program also introduced new sophisticated tools for water resources management such as geographic
information systems, cadastres of land use and occupation and of water uses and users, and hydrodynamic
simulation models for flooding and for water quality.

The sustainability of AGHIR and of water quality management activities in the basin was to be
guaranteed by implementation of the water use levy system that was to take force in 2003, pending
approval by the new state government administration. However, the political changeover in the
state government administration has halted all progress in this area and the impressive achievements
of PROSAM are now at risk. Nonetheless, the ICR concludes that the institutional development
impacts of the component are still considered highly satisfactory, and continue to serve as a model
for other parts of Brazil.




                                                    - 18 -

4.5.3 National Component
The institutional development impact of the national component is rated as Satisfactory.                  The
institutional development impacts were substantial in the case of the Paraíba do Sul sub-project that
succeeded in strengthening the (Comite de Integracao da Bacia do Rio Paraíba do Sul, CEIVAP) and
progressing toward the creation of a multi-state Basin Agency with federal participation. The PCJ
sub-project proposed a practical approach of initially establishing a Basin Agency in the state of São
Paulo, with eventual participation of the federal government and the state of Mina Gerais. In the
other two sub-projects, the institutional impacts were more modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
An important factor that slowed project implementation in all three components was the frequent turnover
in elected officials. Just as Guarapiranga component became effective, the municipal prefect in São Paulo
changed and the UGP-SP had to work intensively with the incoming administration to get its support for the
project and commitment of resources. Almost two years were lost in this process. Soon after finally
getting the new local administration on board, state elections brought in a new governor and new political
appointees. In Paraná, a new governor was elected soon after project implementation and it took two years
to get the component fully started up. Electoral change also affected project outcomes and sustainability in
the case of Paraná where a new state government took over in 2003, after project closure, and has derailed
the implementation of SEGRH and the water use levy system ­ paradoxically, under the same governor
with whom the project was prepared and who signed the project agreement in 1992. At the national level,
frequent institutional changes in the secretariats responsible for PQA implementation, and delays in
approval of key water resources legislation and the creation of ANA, slowed project implementation.

A public sector fiscal crisis affecting the debt ceilings of states and municipalities caused a two-year delay
in mobilizing counterpart financing. Macroeconomic restrictions on indebtedness also affected the national
component since states were not motivated to take on the preparation of new investment projects. There
was also a protracted period from 1994 to 1997 when federal exchange policy led to an overvalued
currency, necessitating greater dollar expenditures by state and local governments than originally budgeted
to meet the physical outputs.

Construction of the Irai Dam in Paraná was suspended in June 1998 at the request of the Bank after a
recently-discovered and threatened species of bird was found living in the floodplain grasslands (varzea)
that would be inundated by the new reservoir. The known population of Wet Tall-grass Tapaculo
(Scytalopus iraiensis), known locally as the Macuquinho-da-Varzea, was found almost entirely within only
17 ha of floodplain grassland. Because other viable populations of the Tapaculo were not known, it was
feared that the completion of the Irai Dam could seriously threaten the survival of this unique species. The
World Bank and the GEP decided to carry out a rigorous conservation study of the Tapaculo, which was
designed to undertake an intensive search for additional populations away from the Irai basin. This study
found an additional 15 sites with an estimated bird population in excess of 5,000 individuals, compared to
133 individuals living in the Irai Dam's future inundation zone. Further studies confirmed the existence of
about 75,000 ha of varzea floodplain grasslands in Paraná and brought the estimate of the world
population of this species to 7,500 individuals. In the Bank's analysis, the completion of the dam would
not lead to a significant loss of Paraná's varzea ecosystem in general, nor of the Tapaculo's habitat in
particular, and thus was not a threat to the survival of the bird. Thus the Bank and the GEP considered the
PROSAM project to be in compliance with its natural habitat policy (OD 4.04), and SANEPAR was
authorized in early 1999 to begin filling the Irai Reservoir subject to commitments that provided for



                                                      - 19 -

protection for the adjacent varzea grasslands in the Vila Velha State Park and in Piraquara. In addition,
SANEPAR assumed the responsibility for the creation of a 65 ha private nature reserve adjacent to the
Piraquara protected area. Irai Dam civil works advanced rapidly after this incident, and in July 1999 all
works were completed.

A new federal law on licitations (No. 8.666/93) imposed significant pre-requisites on bids for civil works
and caused SABESP to prepare new designs for its Guarapiranga component works in order to refine cost
estimates. This decision greatly delayed contracting for, and initiating construction of, civil works for the
expansion of the sanitary sewer system.

Population growth in both state components greatly exceeded expectations. In the Guarapiranga basin, the
population increased from 550,000 to 800,000 inhabitants during implementation. In the Alto Iguaçu
basin, the RMC grew at 3.4% per annum during the 10-year implementation period.                  This growth
threatened to outstrip gains in sewerage expansion and greatly increased the pollution loads on water
resources. In combination with the considerable delays in implementing the sewer expansion and favela
upgrading activities, and the startup of wastewater treatment plants, the increased pollution loads affected
water quality outcomes.       Furthermore, during implementation of the São Paulo component, it was
ascertained that long-term accumulation of nutrients in the reservoir's sludge layer proved to be an
additional source of pollutants. In both state components, water quality conditions did not deteriorate but
expected improvements in indicator values were not fully achieved. However, in the face of such increased
pollution loads the projects can be credited with maintaining or marginally improving water quality. Water
quality modeling by PROSAM showed that water quality would have deteriorated significantly over the past
ten years had the project not been implemented. Finally, PROSAM noted that the initial water quality
baseline was not properly established ­ weaknesses existed with regard to the definition of monitoring
indicators and the monitoring protocol including location of monitoring stations, reference flow volumes for
data collection, sampling frequency and analytical methods for chosen parameters. A suspect water quality
baseline makes it difficult to interpret project impacts.

Although the question of Bank performance is discussed in section 7 below, the project borrower's all
mentioned that the Bank supervision and technical assistance contributed greatly to implementation
progress during the initial difficult period from 1993 to 1996. Yet, they also felt that the Bank reduced this
support in later years, a factor which negatively affected implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation started off very slowly due to the severe limitations on counterpart funding during the
period 1993-94, as explained above. In the two investment components, starting in 1995, the respective
state authorities and key executing agencies took steps to ensure both the availability and timing of
counterpart resources. As a result implementation of works and services as well as the development of
state studies accelerated significantly.      Based on this progress and after mid-term reviews of the
components, the respective state governments requested, and were granted, double extensions of closing
dates to December 1998.

After a period of accelerated disbursements, new difficulties arose due to three factors: (i) another
financial crisis and slowing of investments in 1997-98; (ii) difficulties in the appropriation of land ­ and
corresponding costs ­ for resettlement housing development, pumping stations, and flood control works;
and (iii) bankruptcy of some contractors for the Guarapiranga sewerage works. This slowdown in physical
outputs, combined with concurrent delays in legislative approvals needed to meet the institutional
development objectives, led to additional state requests for extensions of component closing dates. Both
components received two additional one-year extensions bringing final closing dates to December 2000.



                                                     - 20 -

With regard to the institutional development objectives, the major factor causing delay in both components
was the time needed to shepherd draft legislation through the legislative approval process. After passage of
the Federal Law No. 9.433/97 instituting the National System of Water Resources Management, pressure
built on state legislatures to pass complementary legislation at the state level.

In Paraná, the legislature approved both the SEGRH and SIGPROM laws but much additional
consensus-building work was needed to ensure the establishment of the basin agency AGHIR and to
introduce water use charges.       The GEP negotiated for a second phase to the component agreement
including the reallocation of cancelled funds and a two-year time extension to complete this work. By the
final closure date in December 2002, the entire institutional framework had been put into place. It then
depended on the current state government administration to make it fully operational ­ a step that
unfortunately has not been taken. On the contrary, the new government administration has effectively
dismantled the basin agency by breaking the state's contractual commitment to participate, and
withdrawing state physical resources for the agency (offices, computers, vehicles and staff). SUDERHSA,
the state agency responsible for overseeing the implementation of SEGRH (and SIGPROM), is too weak
operationally to advance SEGRH on its own. In these conditions, ANA also suspended the delegation of
authority it had issued to the GEP for the management of the federal waterways. This post-project
stalemate is unlikely to be resolved until a new state government is elected.

In the case of São Paulo, legislation already existed defining the state water resources policy and
establishing the integrated system for water resources management (SIGRH). With support from the
project, complementary legislation was passed for headwater protection (State Law No. 9.886/97) and for
the establishment of the foundations for basin agencies. (State Law No. 10.020/98), and draft legislation
was prepared to establish a water use levy system. However, it became apparent that more time was
needed to develop the agreements needed to pass the remaining legislation and begin to regulate and
implement the laws. Because of this the GESP negotiated the amendment to the component loan agreement
allowing more time after project closure to build agreement across state and municipal legislatures, state
agencies, municipalities and user groups.

In both states, the government's commitment to the project and the appointment of capable UGP staff were
the keys to the eventual success of the implementation process.              Notwithstanding the institutional
complexity of the components, given the multi-sectoral and inter-jurisdictional nature of urbanized river
basin management, the governments succeeded in coordinating the project activities effectively.

The national component also suffered a two-year signing delay due to bureaucratic obstacles and
administrative discontinuity following the federal political crisis of December 1992. It was not until the
creation of SEPURB and its Sanitation Directorate in April 1995 that the UGCN was staffed with
consultants and implementation effectively got underway. Administrative support for the UGCN by the
UNDP (Project BRA-93.013) provided a workable bureaucratic mechanism for channeling project
resources from the federal level to the state executing agencies.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The state investment components each involved multiple executing agencies with varying implementation
capacities. Some, such as SABESP and SANEPAR, had staff that were very experienced with Bank
projects and project management. Others had staff with only limited experience with Bank projects. In the
area of procurement this initially caused difficulties in agencies such as SEMA in São Paulo, and SEPL and
COMEC in Paraná, as state procurement rules were quite different from the Bank's, and much time was
lost until it was understood that the Bank's rules prevailed in loan projects, and how those rules worked.



                                                     - 21 -

Similarly, there were long delays in preparing terms of reference and bidding documents for some
important studies, and corresponding delays in awarding contracts. With the assistance of the respective
UGPs, these problems were eventually overcome. In the case of COMEC, other executing agencies were
brought in to assist in conducting studies and over time to strengthen COMEC's capacity in several
technical areas.

Turnovers in elected governments and cyclic financial crises led to uneven performance in some cases. For
example, the PMSP found its financial position quite strong about mid-project and committed to a more
ambitious program of urban upgrading in favelas. However, when the PMSP's financial situation later
worsened the pace of implementation was affected and some favelas were left with incomplete works for an
extended period.

Finally, some agencies ended up carrying out unfamiliar activities such as in the case of CDHU who found
itself carrying out favela upgrading that did not fit within in its normal structure and frame of experience ­
that being the construction of new housing developments. To overcome this problem, CDHU had to work
more closely with the beneficiary municipalities in the Guarapiranga basin to coordinate works and find
solutions to resettlement within existing favelas ­ ultimately achieving the construction of some 900
housing units in the interior of the upgraded favelas.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 Guarapiranga Component
There were significant cost changes in this component, with actual costs at 129% of the appraisal estimate.
Part of this can be explained by the fact that physical outputs exceeded targets. Another factor was the
over-valuation of the Real compared to the US dollar during much of the implementation period. However,
several subcomponents experienced increased costs compared to original design estimates. SABESP found
that the original designs based on much earlier studies were inadequate given the accelerated urban growth
in the basin in recent years. After redesign, the cost of the water supply and sewerage works subcomponent
increased by 142%.

In the urban rehabilitation and resettlement subcomponent, unit costs increased from US$1,700 per family
to US$5,300 per family, resulting in an actual cost 205% that of the appraisal estimate. Favela upgrading
activities turned out to be more complex than anticipated since considerable internal physical
reorganization within communities was required so that installation of sanitary infrastructure could be
accomplished. Resettlement costs also were initially underestimated, largely due to the inexperience of
PMSP and CDHU in resettlement schemes following Bank guidelines. There was considerable learning
`-by­doing' for the executing agencies of this subcomponent. The high cost of new housing developments
spurred the executing agencies to maximize the opportunities to build new homes within the existing
communities for families needing relocation. Notwithstanding the high cost of this subcomponent, the
results were judged highly successful and have come to represent a new standard for resettlement projects
in the state and beyond.

A part of these cost increases were compensated by a reduction in the estimated costs of other
subcomponents, and especially in the lower than estimated cost (-64%) of rehabilitation of the existing
sewer networks.      The latter saving was achieved while exceeding the targets for improved network
maintenance.

With the overall increase in the actual component cost, the Bank's share in project financing dropped from
45.6% to 35.1%. Counterpart funding increased for the PMSP (from an estimated 10.7% at appraisal to
32.3% actual) while shares dropped for other executing agencies. The share for GESP, including UGP-SP,



                                                      - 22 -

CDHU and SMA, decreased (from 26.0% to 19.0%), and SABESP"s share dropped (from 15.2% to 13.6%)
even though the absolute value of SABESP"s contributions increased overall. In the end, ELECTOPAULO
did not participate in the project and its anticipated share in funding was covered by SMA and PMSP.

Implementation and disbursement delays were significant, owing partly to the Borrower's counterpart fund
shortage problem in the earlier years of the project period. Disbursements over the initial three years, or
two-thirds through the planned implementation period of five years, were only 8.4% of the appraisal
estimate.    At the mid-term review in 1996, the component had achieved an accelerated pace of
disbursement and the closing date was extended one year, and a financial restructuring was agreed upon.
Subsequently, the closing date was extended twice at the request of the state government, with final closing
taking place in December 2000.

5.4.2 Alto Iguaçu Component
There were also significant cost changes in this component, with actual costs at 114% of the appraisal
estimate. This is partly due to the outputs exceeding targets. However, a major increase in the cost of the
sanitary sewerage system (191%), including networks and wastewater treatment plants, explains most of
the difference. This cost increase was absorbed by SANEPAR with its own resources. Another significant
cost increase was related to the Irai flood channel (196%) since it was extended in length to incorporate the
water supply conveyance function, and due to higher than expected costs of land appropriation. There
were also cost increases in the favela upgrading component in the headwater watershed (195%) due to
increases in the number of families benefited from sanitary infrastructure and due to the higher cost of land
appropriation.

Significant cost reductions were achieved in the solid waste management (-69%) and hospital waste
management (-76%) activities, and US$8 million in loan funds were cancelled. Later, US$6 million of this
amount was reallocated via a project amendment for the environmental management subcomponent as
explained in section 3.4.2 above.

With the overall increase in the actual component cost, the Bank's in project financing was decreased from
52.4% to 43.9%. Counterpart funding increases were mainly absorbed by SANEPAR, whose contribution
more than doubled and whose share rose from an estimated 16.7% at appraisal to 32.8% actual. Shares of
counterpart funding decreased for the GEP (COMEC, SUDERHSA, SEMA, IAP and SEPL) from 16.7% at
appraisal to 14.8% actual, and by the PMC from 11.8% at appraisal to 6.9% actual.

As with the Guarapiranga component, implementation and disbursement delays were significant in the Alto
Iguaçu component for many of the same reasons. At the mid-term review in May 1997, the closing date
was extended one year. Two subsequent amendments to the loan agreement extended closure to December
2002.

5.4.3 National Component
The original project preparation facility financed by the Bank loan was US$9 million, later reduced to
US$7.7 million due to: (i) cancellation of the Minas Gerais portion of the Paraiba do Sul study
(US$800,000); and (ii) cancellation of part of the funds for a flood control study in the Baia de Sepetiba e
Jacarepagua in Rio de Janeiro (US$500,000, the rest reallocated to the Rio de Janeiro portion of the
Pariaba do Sul study). Actual component expenditures reached 78.7% of the amended amount. The start
up and implementation of this component was delayed due to changes in the federal government; loan
signature was in June 1994, nearly two years after negotiations, and effectiveness in 1995. Disbursements
were delayed as it took longer than expected to set up the state UGPs and to select and engage consultants
for the state studies. The closing date of the component was extended two years, to September 1999.


                                                      - 23 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated Likely.

The protection and maintenance of the Guarapiranga and Alto Iguaçu basins as water supply sources for
the respective metropolitan areas has been achieved through a combination of institutional and legal
reforms together with investments in physical infrastructure. The economic and financial outcomes of the
projects are positive. The project executing agencies are committed to continuing the efforts started under
the project and to maintaining the physical infrastructure built as part of it. The sustainability of these
gains seems highly likely.

The broader objective of establishing basin agencies and implementing water use charge systems has also
been achieved in good measure in the state components and provides the basis for sustainability of water
quality and pollution control in the future. The most difficult phase of state reform has been completed ­
namely, introducing new concepts, building consensus among stakeholders, and developing and establishing
the appropriate legal framework. An interim basin agency has been set up in Guarapiranga, and a
fully-fledged agency created in Paraná. The key remaining step to ensuring sustainability is to implement
the state water use levy scheme. In the Guarapiranga component this final step is still pending a legal basis
and sustainability is not yet assured. The now-established Alto Tiete Basin Agency provides a forum for
continued dialog on the levy system, and key stakeholders are committed to carry on with this dialog.

In the Alto Iguaçu component, the water use levy system has legal approval and the values of the water
abstraction and wastewater discharge levies were negotiated with water users. Financial simulations
indicate that the projected water use levy system could generate 35-40% of the investments and operational
costs foreseen for water resources management actions over the next 20 years. A system for allocating
water use rights was also approved. It only remained for the present state government administration that
took office after project closure to fully implement these reforms. Unfortunately, that has not happened and
is unlikely to occur while the present GEP administration is in office as evidenced by the dismantling of the
AGHIR ­ this is a post-implementation issue that does put component sustainability at risk. On the
positive side, the legal and regulatory framework for water quality management remains in place so that
with a new GEP administration corrective actions could likely be taken swiftly. A more difficult issue
could be re-establishing the confidence of water users in the Alto Iguaçu system, particularly the private
sector.

A national policy framework for managing water quality and pollution control in river basins has been
adopted, and the corresponding national institution, ANA, has been created and has proven effective in
working with states on PQA activities. Nineteen states now have passed complementary legislation, and
states, in addition to Paraná and São Paulo, are moving forward in adopting sound policies for water
resources management, such as Ceara, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, and Bahia. Furthermore, the
underpinnings for several new state PQA projects have been established through the studies financed under
the national component, as described above. The potential for new Bank-supported projects is reflected in
the priorities of the CAS 2003-2007.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The sewerage networks and wastewater treatment plants constructed in the two state components will be
operated and maintained by the corresponding state water companies, SABESP and SANEPAR. Both



                                                     - 24 -

companies are ranked among the most efficient in the country and have qualified operational staff that can
operate and maintain these assets. With regard to the wastewater treatment plants, the existing tariff
structures constrain recovery of the additional costs from residential consumers for the concept of treatment
and for the payment of corresponding wastewater discharge levies. This is a broader issue that affects
wastewater treatment generally throughout Brazil.

In areas benefited by slum upgrading and by the construction of storm drainage, streets and parks, this
infrastructure will be operated by the respective municipalities, with reliance on own budgetary resources.
Beneficiary surveys indicate that the improvements were viewed favorably by favela dwellers and led to
greater self esteem, more complementary investments from inhabitants in their homes, respect for public
areas and for infrastructure, and provided greater contact with the local government.                While the
components did not include legalization of tenure, nor direct cost recovery, these limitations could be
overcome in future projects.

Solid waste collection is carried out by municipal contractors, and collection coverage was expanded in all
parts of the metropolitan areas including in favelas. The municipalities recover part of the service cost
through user fees, but still have to dedicate substantial general revenues for this activity. The operation of
sanitary landfills built by the Guarapiranga component is being carried out to satisfactory technical
standards by the host municipalities, who received training under the project.

The recreational parks built under the project are operated and maintained in Curitiba by the respective
municipalities and in São Paulo by SMA. In neither case are user fees being charged, and operations are
paid out of general budgets. The degraded areas that were recovered in the Guarapiranga basin are being
maintained in good conditions since project closure.

Water quality monitoring in Guarapiranga is being carried out in part by CETESB, and to a larger extent
by SABESP, each using its own budgetary resources. Also, most of the direct actions for water quality
control in the reservoir are carried out and paid for by SABESP, which helps guarantee the continuity and
consistency of implementation. In the future, monitoring operations currently carried out by SABESP will
be taken over by the basin agency, but the corresponding costs will continue to be reflected in water tariffs
through the mechanism of water abstraction charges.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated Satisfactory. Eight missions visited São Paulo
and Curitiba for project identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, appraisal and negotiations.          These
missions were complemented by Borrower visits to Bank headquarters. Preparation and appraisal was
conducted by a high quality multi-disciplinary team consisting of specialists in sanitary engineering, water
pollution control, water resources management, solid waste management, environment, environmental
economics, and resettlement.

During this phase, the Bank worked intensively with inter-agency working groups in both states to resolve
complex issues related to evaluating water quality impacts, economic evaluation, resettlement plans, and
institutional reforms. In the latter area, the Bank played an essential role in ensuring that the project design
was based on concepts of integrated water quality management at the river basin level (avoiding the
limitations of sectoral approaches that predominated in Brazil up to that time), and on the application of
water use charges.



                                                     - 25 -

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. The project SAR foresaw that the
project would require more than customary supervision by the Bank due to its innovative character and
complex integration of activities. There were two distinct phases of Bank supervision. The first four years
of project implementation were characterized by frequent missions for supervision and technical assistance,
complemented by occasional visits by the Borrower to the Bank. For example, between 1993-96 there
were 24 missions to São Paulo. Given the project complexity and in view of the initial delays in project
startup, considerable attention was given to problem solving and establishing sound terms of reference for
the technical studies leading up to the introduction of new water quality management approaches and
institutional development. The Bank's role during this phase of supervision was critical to getting the
project back on track and in laying the groundwork for eventual success.

Efforts during the second phase of the project concentrated on physical progress and consolidation of
institutional achievements. Towards the end of the project, it became clear to the Bank how much had
been accomplished in terms of institutional development, technical achievements in water quality
management, and establishment of an effective favela upgrading approach. This recognition is reflected in
the Bank's decision to amend the Guarapiranga component, to approve a second phase for the Alto Iguaçu
component, and to actively disseminate the results of the project and work with GESP in the preparation of
a follow-up project to encompass all the headwaters of RMSP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The demonstration components to introduce integrated
river basin management faced numerous expected and unexpected problems of a political, institutional,
legal, and financial nature. If the project were prepared today, it would probably be designed as an APL
(as is being proposed for the follow-up project in RMSP). Given the demonstration and learning nature of
the project, the limited project design options available at the time, and the limited Bank experience with
implementing this kind of an operation, the ICR concludes that the Bank team performed adequately. The
Bank's single-minded insistence throughout the project on the basic institutional goals to create a river
basin agency and to establish water use charges, and its flexibility to extend the project until these goals
could be achieved and provide technical assistance, constituted a major factor in the eventual success of the
project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated Satisfactory. Despite the evident complexity of the
project, the preparatory phase was developed rapidly and efficiently with project identification in February
1991 and appraisal in February 1992. Effective working groups were established in both states with the
participation of potential executing agencies and affected municipalities, responsible for producing the
initial designs of the respective investment programs and carrying out needed background studies of water
quality, sewerage systems, urban upgrading, resettlement, legal and regulatory framework, cost recovery
options and economic impacts, among others. This was essential to overcome the `single-sector-dominated'
approach to water resources management in Brazil up to that time. The UGPs were also formed at this
time and began assuming their important coordination role. Most importantly, the Borrowers committed to
the conceptual framework and institutional goals of the project and took ownership of the project during
this preparatory phase.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the national and state governments during implementation was mixed but overall is



                                                   - 26 -

rated Satisfactory. A major problem at the outset was availability of counterpart funding from the state
governments and other project participants, as a result of the sub-sovereign financial crisis in Brazil in that
period. Sufficient counterpart funding was eventually provided, and the mid-term financial restructuring of
both investment components allowed the project to advance at an accelerated pace. However, counterpart
funding problems and implementation delays reappeared in late 1997 to mid 1998 and caused the ratings
for both state components to drop to Unsatisfactory. During this same period, the pace of resettlement was
judged Unsatisfactory and the corresponding risk rating dropped to Substantial. Efforts by the GESP and
GEP helped resolve these problems and project ratings returned to satisfactory levels by late 1998.
Signature of the loan agreement for the national component was originally delayed two years due to
changes in the federal government and lack of institutional continuity.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the executing agencies during implementation is rated Satisfactory. The respective
project management units, the UGP-SP, UGP-PR and the UGCN, all played a critical role in facilitating
coordination among the different executing agencies, and providing adequate project management support
to the executing agencies throughout implementation. These units, helped by long-term technical assistance
contracts with highly qualified independent consulting firms, were also able to ensure continuity of the
project implementation process despite various changed of government at federal, state and local level. The
executing agencies in both state components all made significant contributions to implementation of the
physical infrastructure and the technical and institutional studies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrowers performance is rated Satisfactory.           Throughout project preparation and the
implementation period, the Borrowers maintained strong commitment to attainment of the project
objectives. Notwithstanding project complexity, recurrent difficulties in availability of counterpart funding
and significant delays in implementation, substantial development impact was achieved thanks to good
project coordination and strong commitment by the myriad executing agencies.

8. Lessons Learned

The demonstration investment components of this project represent a major departure from traditional Bank
lending in the water and urban sectors. The integrated approach to water quality management, taking into
account the need for water supply and sanitation service provision, urban upgrading and other quality of
life improvements at the local level, is based on multi-sectoral and inter-institutional principles. It is
inherently complex and ran contrary to the Bank's then-preference for simpler single sector projects. While
the Bank's 1993 Water Resources Policy Paper acknowledged the need for comprehensive water resources
planning and management at the river basin level, it also warned of the difficulty of achieving the necessary
multi-sectoral coordination for effective action. As mentionedearlier, the Bank's 2003 Water Resources
Sector Strategy endorses pragmatic approaches to policy reform which recognize the political economy of
bringing about desired changes. Added to this is the difficulty of accomplishing the inter-municipal and
state-municipal cooperation and coordination needed to control pollution loads in highly urbanized river
basins. In the final analysis, problems related to water quality management, pollution control the brown
environmental agenda and urban upgrading, especially in river basins encompassing metropolitan regions
and concentrated productive activities, are complex ­ both institutionally and in terms of understanding the
interactions between land use patterns, infrastructure deficits, diverse pollution loads and resultant water
quality ­ and cannot be resolved with simple approaches or isolated sector interventions.

The project demonstrates that a fundamental element of such urban water management projects in
metropolitan areas is the concomitant concern with addressing urban poverty and quality of life issues. São



                                                    - 27 -

Paulo, Curitiba and Belo Horizonte (the latter in the case of the Minas Gerais PQA) are examples of cities
which have suffered, and continue to experience, explosive unplanned urban expansion resulting in the
marginalization of poor populations in peri-urban slums and illegal settlements devoid of adequate
infrastructure and other services. Past approaches of addressing urban water resources and land use issues
in isolation have often failed. More holistic approaches, focusing on basic service provision ­ in particular
sanitation infrastructure ­ but also paying attention to the local social and economic questions, are
necessary in order to properly address the complex challenges involved in tackling brown environmental
and urban water quality issues.

In response to this reality, the PQA project sought to develop and demonstrate an approach for
comprehensive planning and management that could help overcome the difficulties of coordination and
demonstrate how to achieve effective integration, of different sectors and different levels of government, at
the watershed level for sound water quality management, water pollution control, service provision and
urban upgrading. The project also demonstrates the importance of using the river basin, and sub-basins, as
the planning basis not only for infrastructure delivery but also for prioritizing complementary urban
upgrading actions. The two demonstration components of this project, taken together with the third
                                                    8
standalone demonstration project in Minas Gerais, confirmed that comprehensive urban water resources
and land-use planning and management is feasible although complex, time consuming, and subject to
political risk. Numerous lessons are drawn from the demonstration components that can be applied to
future projects.

·        Both the institutional and the environmental objectives associated with integrated water
quality management, brown environmental agenda and urban upgrading projects should be treated
as long-term program goals rather than short- to medium-term project objectives.
The original PQA objectives could not realistically be achieved within the original project timeframe.
Much remains to be done to complete the institutional and policy reforms sought by the project
components, although the legal framework is now largely in place. Similarly, while the demonstration
projects achieved significant reductions in pollution loads and some improvements in water quality, a
longer-term effort is needed to control point and diffuse pollution loads in the face of continued urban
growth. Future PQA projects require a phased approach with a medium- to long-term planning horizon,
most likely choosing an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation. Table 1 presents a suggested
structure for such a PQA APL based on the present experience.

·        An integrated approach to water quality management, the brown environmental agenda and
urban upgrading can enhance the benefits of a wide range of interventions and contribute to poverty
alleviation.
The provision of water supply and sewerage services, stormwater drainage, solid waste collection and slum
upgrading are all essential to urban water pollution control, and jointly contribute to significant health,
environmental and quality of life benefits for local populations and especially for poor urban households.
The PQA demonstration components have shown the effectiveness of an integrated, urban-wide approach
that directly involves the affected municipalities and communities. They also demonstrate that poor
households appreciate the benefits and are often willing to contribute to the costs of desired urban services.

·        Tackling the shortfalls in metropolitan planning and governance in Brazil is crucial
Metropolitan governance in Brazil is traditionally weak, making issues which span more than one
municipality in such regions ­ such as macro drainage, water supply and sanitation, solid waste
management, housing and land-use policies, service planning and regulation, targeting of services and
subsidies, tariffs, utility management and governance ­ particularly challenging. Projects such as the PQA



                                                   - 28 -

should be used as vehicles to re-engage stakeholders in a debate of metropolitan planning and governance,
and help move this key agenda forward, much as was done under PQA for issues concerning urban water
resources management.

·        Persistence, patience and flexibility are needed to implement such innovative operations as the
PQA demonstration components.
Given the demonstration and learning nature of the project, the limited project design options available at
the time, and the limited Bank experience with implementing this kind of an operation, the Bank exhibited
both persistence and patience in pursuing project objectives.          The Bank's single-minded insistence
throughout the project on the basic institutional goals to create a river basin agency and to establish water
use charges, and its flexibility to extend the project until these goals could be achieved and provide
technical assistance, constituted major factors in the eventual success of the project. Innovation can be
risky and costly, but only by taking the risk can the Bank and its clients remain at the cutting edge of
institutional and policy reform in the fields of water resources management, the brown environmental
agenda, metropolitan governance and integrated urban upgrading. Having patience also means that the idea
of disbursement as an objective per se, even worse, as the objective of an operation such as this, should be
avoided.

·        Water quality management projects at the river basin level require tailored designs that
match the unique physical, demographic, economic, institutional, and political characteristics of each
basin.
Despite the fact that all three demonstration components (including the standalone Minas Gerais project)
were part of the same PQA project, dealt with the same issues, pursued the same objectives, and applied the
same principles, they were not organized nor developed in the same way. All three components were given
enough freedom to explore different solutions to similar problems. This flexible approach is necessary and
responds to the differences inherent in the three river basins.

·        Consensus building is critically important for reaching agreement on project design and
achieving institutional and policy reform.
In this case, project design was facilitated by the creation of effective stakeholder working groups in each
state that were able to forge consensus on key design issues. During project implementation, the most
important role of the UGPs was in maintaining coordination and communications, involving key
stakeholders in decision-making, and in lobbying with state and municipal assemblies for needed legal
reforms. The embryonic basin committees also played a key role in negotiating agreements with water
users, such as the agreement on the Paraná water-use levies. Consensus building is time consuming and
may result in implementation delays, but it is time well invested.

·        The PQA project demonstrated an equitable approach to urban resettlement and provides a
useful model for Brazil and elsewhere.
At the time of project design, the Bank's resettlement guidelines were oriented mainly toward rural projects,
but were weak in areas related to urban resettlement associated with urban upgrading efforts.           The
experience gained by the project provided invaluable lessons that helped to expand the Bank's knowledge
base and improve its guidelines. Valuable experience was gained under the project concerning the trade-offs
between in-slum and extra-slum resettlement. Involuntary resettlement was kept to a minimum since, in
many cases, people preferred to remain where they had been living for some time, and since housing units
outside the basin were up to five times the cost of those constructed within the slum. Furthermore,
resettlement was seen as part of the urban upgrading solution, rather than as a problem, contributing to the
improvement of quality of life in the slums.



                                                     - 29 -

·        The project also provided a useful model for analyzing and resolving safeguard issues related
to sites that are critical for rare, vulnerable, or endangered species.
The unexpected discovery of the Macuquinho-da-Varzea in the Irai watershed meant that the project had to
apply the Bank's safeguard policy for natural habitats (OP 4.04), related to critical sites. This problem
was successfully resolved through a rigorously designed conservation study carried out by a team of highly
qualified, independent professionals. The study responded to all the issues raised in the safeguard policy,
and allowed for the completion of the Irai Reservoir subcomponent that quickly provided important water
supply and flood control benefits. The experience has served as a model for the design of studies in other
Bank projects elsewhere confronted with endangered species issues.

·        Monitoring and evaluation indicators should be better designed to capture the impact of
incremental project interventions.
Many of the project indicators defined at appraisal were not adequate for judging either achievement of
project objectives or project outputs, particularly those consisting mainly of input indicators. Four kinds of
                                                         9
environmental quality indicators would be more useful:
·        Environmental health indicators (such as infant mortality rates);
·        Quality of life indicators (such as human development indices, urban service provision)
·        Environmental quality indicators (such as water quality measurements);
·        Pollution reduction indicators (such as tons of pollution load removed); and
·        Proxy operational indicators (such as percentage of population served, percentage of solid waste
going to a sanitary landfill, and so forth).

·        In particular, water quality targets and indicators should be more carefully designed, and a
baseline survey conducted to establish initial project conditions, so that water quality improvements
can be adequately substantiated.
Water quality targets and indicators were a major cause of discussion and concern during project
implementation. While there were significant pollution loading reductions, average water quality was only
marginally improved in both the Guarapiranga Reservoir and Alto Iguaçu River in the face increasing
population growth and project delays. However, the development and application of models during the
project indicated that water quality without the project interventions would have been substantially worse
than observed conditions.      A number of papers were produced addressing these issues, as well as
explaining why water quality improvements were hard to substantiate in the absence of baseline data. A
baseline survey should have established appropriate points to monitor critical water quality parameters,
sampling and analytical methods, frequency of sampling, and corresponding streamflow measurements and
reference values so that concentration data could be properly interpreted. Sampling and estimation of both
point and diffuse pollution loads over time is also recommended so that water quality simulation models
can be applied correctly. Models are especially useful for forecasting the impact of water quality control
interventions, but they also require reliable hydrological, water quality and pollution loading data; their use
for `without project' simulations is especially important in project design and cost-benefit analyses.

·        During project design, well-defined population growth scenarios should be developed so that
more realistic estimates of project impacts can be made.
The lack of an adequate consideration of demographic scenarios involving differences in the rates of
population growth, the types of growth (such as poor, spontaneous settlements with inadequate
infrastructure), and the corresponding increases in pollution loads, coupled with significant delays in
project implementation, explain most of the relatively marginal results obtained in water quality.




                                                     - 30 -

·        The Bank should continue to follow up on the project results and remain engaged with the
GoB and the states on water quality management, brown environmental agenda, metropolitan
governance and urban upgrading issues.
The institutional and policy reforms and the water quality, local environmental and urban upgrading
improvements initiated through the project are important and should be consolidated if the full benefits of
this multifaceted project are to materialize. The Bank should continue a technical exchange with the Alto
Tiete Basin Agency and the SRH to help consolidate the gains made there. It is also vital for the Bank to
engage in a sustained dialog with the GEP with the aim of regaining the advances made in the Alto Iguaçu,
building on the legal reforms still in place Paraná. At the national level, continued dialog with ANA and
with the Ministry of Cities will be important for the identification and preparation of potential new PQA
projects, as anticipated in the CAS 2003-2007, in particular building on the preparatory work done in
priority basins under the national component.

·        There is value to a consolidated intensive learning ICR notwithstanding the extra effort
required.
Production on this ICR is definitively more difficult that producing three separate ICRs, but it is also
significantly more interesting, richer in lessons, and allows a better understanding of the objectives,
achievements and failures of the project, and a more intelligent assessment of the final result. The Bank
could consider the adoption of a new type of ICR for a cohort of similar projects in a country.

·        There are often trade-offs to be made between the provision of basic services to the poor and
the treatment of wastewater
In fiscally-constrained environments, and where poor peri-urban populations are numerous, analyses should
be undertaken to determine whether the poor should first be provided with basic services (water supply,
sewerage drainage, solid waste collection, etc) before ambitious plans for wastewater treatment are
embarked upon. The benefits of improving the local environment and quality of life of the poor should
thereby be balanced against the longer term goals of water pollution control. Such short-term investments,
including the export of wastewater from slums, should be undertaken as integral part of the longer term
view for wastewater treatment based on master planning for the latter, with watersheds being used as the
basis for decisions on urban upgrading and infrastructure provision. In the case of the Guarapiranga
component, the focus on basic sanitary infrastructure service provision to improve the quality of life of the
poor proved to also be the most important approach to reversing the degradation of the reservoir and its
tributaries

·        Basic service provision as catalyst for improving social dynamics in peri-urban areas and as
entry points for complementary interventions
The provision of basic services in peri-urban areas can have a significant effect on the neighborhood
dynamics: providing infrastructure to slum dwellers is a powerful message that the local government is
present and will not be evicting them from their plots, even if the occupation is irregular. Under the
Guarapiranga component, this presence stimulated half of those interviewed to subsequently invest in their
own homes to further improve their living conditions. Infrastructure investments should be complemented
by `regularization' of land and property titles, with measures to limit new land occupations in protected
areas, and with investments in social activities including job creation and social and educational awareness
programs. Such projects can also be used to empower householders and communities as `customers' who,
once paying an affordable tariff for a service, should demand a decent standard of service from government
in return.




                                                     - 31 -

·          Basic service provision in slum areas require differentiated approaches
The challenges of providing sustainable urban services in peri-urban, slum areas are numerous.
Differentiated approaches by service providers, and alternative technologies should be explored. The
difficulties of getting poor families to connect to sewerage systems are significant. Analyses of
differentiated tariff structures, subsidy policies and demand-driven mechanis and policies should be
undertaken with a view to promoting equitable access to good quality services by the poor. Also, slums are
very dynamic places, with urban lay-outs and housing configurations changing on a regular basis.
Traditional approaches to feasibility studies and engineering designs were reconsidered under the
Guarapiranga component and, instead, interventions departed directly from preliminary designs to works
tendering, with the detail engineering designs being undertaken as the `work front' advanced in order to
save the executing agencies from new developments which would otherwise require redesign.

·          Baseline beneficiary assessments are useful for making ex-ante and ex-post analyses of quality
of life improvements in slum areas, and help design interventions aimed at social inclusion
Such assessments can provide a wealth of information concerning the planning of physical interventions,
and of other complementary activities such as job creation and other social programs, as well as measuring
improvements in living conditions and service provision in the target areas before and after execution. An
important result of PQA's urban upgrading interventions was the `inclusion of the slum areas of the cities
within the wider social fabric. Under the Guarapiranga component, ex-post beneficiary assessments
attested to the importance of having those from neighboring `formal' areas of the city visit the public
spaces implemented as part of the upgrading as this made the slum dwellers feel that they belonged more to
the city as a whole. Also, having basic services for the first time in a favela means that residents receive
bills which not only provides a sense of inclusion in the broader society but which is also of practical use in
helping householders get jobs, open bank accounts, etc.

        Table 1: Suggested Design of Adjustable Program Lending (APL) for PQA-type Projects

           Elements                        APL I (3 yrs)                         APL II (4 yrs)                      APL III (3 yrs)
Water quality management, brown
environmental agenda and urban
upgrading
·    Institutions                ·       Establish inter-agency and      ·   Basin Committee established     ·           Basin Agency created
                                 inter-municipal technical working       ·   Embryonic basin agency          and strengthened
                                 group                                   formed                              ·           State water resources
                                 ·       Convene water user group        ·   Metropolitan agency             and environmental authorities
                                 ·       Engage with metropolitan        established (or strengthened)       strengthened
                                 planning/management agency ­ or                                             ·           Metropolitan agency
                                 plan for its creation on issues such                                        strengthened
                                 as macro-infrastructure provision
                                 and housing policy
·          Legal and regulatory ·        Prepare draft legislation for: ·    Legislation approved          · Water Quality Fund established
frameworks and governance       water quality management system;        Water abstraction and wastewater    (fed by water use levies)
                                headwater protection and land use;      discharge fees negotiated by state · Industrial pretreatment and
                                water use levy system                   agencies, municipal assemblies and  discharge control program in place
                                ·        Review appropriateness of      water user group, and approved by  · Industrial and hazardous waste
                                WSS service delivery arrangements, state governor.                          management system in place
                                regulation and control, if needed, and
                                prepare draft legislation to address
                                identified needs.
                                ·        Review governance and
                                management policies and practices,
                                including utilities.




                                                                    - 32 -

cont. Table 1

·Studies and tools         ·         Development of water         ·     Routine application of water   · Continued application of models
                           quality simulation models              quality models and economic analysis and economic analysis to aid decision
                           ·         Development of GIS           to assess impact of pollution control making
                           ·         Implementation of water      options and establish water quality  · Routine updating of water quality
                           quality monitoring system              standards                             and land use plans
                           ·         Development of water         ·     Development of water quality   · M&E of service provision efficiency
                           quality information system             and land use plans                    (especially in slum areas)
                           ·         Cadastre of water users      ·     M&E of service provision       · Ex-ante and ex-post beneficiary
                           ·         Regional solid waste         efficiency (especially in slum areas) assessment repeated for new areas
                           management plan                        ·     Ex-ante and ex-post beneficiary
                           ·         Industrial and hazardous     assessment repeated for new areas
                           waste studies                          ·     Implement correcting policies
                           ·         Development of macro         and measures.
                           service provision master plans (for
                           water supply, sewerage, drainage,
                           solid waste, etc.)
                           ·         Analyses of service
                           provision models, tariffs and subsidies
                           (especially slum areas)
                           ·         Ex-ante beneficiary
                           assessments to help design urban
                           upgrading and social interventions;
                           ex-post assessments to measure
                           impact
 Physical Investments       ·        Expansion of municipal        ·    Expansion of municipal sewer     ·            Major municipal
                            sewer networks and storm               networks and storm drainage           wastewater treatment plants
                            drainage                               ·    Improvement in solid waste       financed by sub-loans with partial
                            ·        Improvement in solid          collection                            repayment by Compra de Esgoto
                            waste collection                       ·    Favela upgrading                 grants.
                            ·        Favela upgrading              ·    Resettlement                     ·            Continued investment
                            ·        Resettlement                  ·    Priority wastewater treatment    in sewer and storm drainage
                            ·        Investment in other related   plants in headwater basins            networks, solid waste
                            urban services                         ·    Regional solid waste             management, upgrading, and
                                                                   management system, including          resettlement to keep up with urban
                                                                   final disposal                        growth
 Possible triggers          ·        Draft legislation submitted   ·    Legislation approved by state
                            to state legislature                   assembly
                            ·        Design and bid package        ·    Basin Committee in place
                            prepared for Phase II                  ·    First water use levies billed
                                                                   ·    Design and bid package
                                                                   prepared for Phase III
                                                                   ·    Municipal sewers in place for
                                                                   major wastewater treatment plants



 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 The following comments were provided by the States of São Paulo (Guarapiranga Component) and Paraná
 (Alto Iguaçu Component). In the case of the State of Paraná, independent comments were received from
 two of the executing agencies (SUDERHSA and SANEPAR) and both of them are attached. Comments
 from the Federal Government were not received.

 9.1 Guarapiranga Component

 O documento de avaliação do Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia Hidrográfica do
 Guarapiranga, ou Programa Guarapiranga, produzido pelo Banco Mundial, é altamente favorável
 ao design e aos resultados obtidos. Estes comentários pretendem por em relevo ou acrescentar


                                                              - 33 -

algumas questões chaves que são suscitadas pela própria característica do Programa, isto é, pela
sua arquitetura institucional e pela natureza do problema ambiental e urbano a confrontar. De
alguma forma, estas questões podem ser de grande importância na montagem de programas de
intervenções múltiplas no futuro.

Deve-se recordar, a propósito, para a bacia do Guarapiranga, que sua ocupação é densa, situada
em sua maior parte nas vizinhanças do reservatório e predominantemente de baixa renda. Grande
parte desta ocupação é de origem irregular ­ loteamentos e favelas. A decisão pela montagem do
Programa implicou uma alteração de política de governo para a região, em especial pela decisão
de expandir a infra-estrutura pública básica, antes contida pelo risco de incentivo a um maior
crescimento populacional no interior do território. Assim, o alvo passou a ser o tratamento do
desafio urbano em uma área ambientalmente sensível. A superação de convicções, hesitações e
insuficiências anteriores levou, por sua vez, a novas assertivas e desafios. Algumas delas,
eventualmente as mais importantes, estão observadas a seguir.

1. Para a correção dos problemas de qualidade da água, do reservatório e seus afluentes, a
expansão dos sistemas convencionais de esgotamento sanitário é condição necessária, mas não
suficiente. Um primeiro aspecto diz respeito ao fato de que esta expansão fez-se em áreas
socialmente carentes, o que levou a duas limitações relativas: (i) a renda familiar baixa impediu
que houvesse, ao menos durante o tempo de implementação das obras, a efetivação de todas as
ligações domiciliares possíveis; (ii) o padrão de funcionamento destes sistemas coletores, e
também dos sistemas de coleta de lixo, por variados motivos, é mais baixo em aglomerações
urbanas de renda menor e características de ocupação mais precárias. Além disso, o run-off
urbano pode ser extremamente significativo, pelos esgotos e lixo residuais não coletados, em
vazão e quantidade superiores a outras áreas urbanas mais organizadas. Assim, duas providências
complementares são importantes: (i) investir capacidade gerencial e de recursos na otimização
operacional ­ uma vez que se trata de área de manancial estratégico, isto implica maiores custos
operacionais, para que o máximo rendimento possível seja obtido dos sistemas instalados: (ii)
alocar recursos em instalações de pré-tratamento dos afluentes antes de seu deságüe no
reservatório, permitindo equacionar melhor as vazões de run-off que, no caso, são mais
substantivas em função de limitações dos sistemas convencionais.

O Programa Guarapiranga, desde a sua concepção, identificou estas limitações, mas não havia
ainda amadurecimento das idéias relacionadas a estes pontos, senão na própria Unidade de
Gerenciamento do Programa ­ UGP. É um ganho importante que estes aspectos tenham destaque
especial na preparação do Programa Mananciais, que deve suceder o Programa Guarapiranga,
mas agora voltado a todos os mananciais que produzem água para o abastecimento da Região
Metropolitana de São Paulo.

2. Em adição ao comentado no item anterior, observe-se que outros investimentos em
infra-estrutura pública foram e são relevantes ­ além da urbanização de favelas, objeto de
comentário específico no item 3 seguinte, também a melhoria de serviços urbanos básicos em
loteamentos de baixa e baixíssima renda, a implantação de parques e áreas de uso popular e de
lazer, a construção de conjuntos habitacionais para famílias moradoras de áreas submetidas a
algum risco, físico e/ou ambiental, e outras intervenções. Deseja-se com isso a recuperação de um



                                                - 34 -

déficit social, o que inclui, no caso, a criação de condições de infra-estrutura geral que viabilizem
um relacionamento mais amigável da população com seu habitat urbano. Naturalmente, isto
envolve um maior número de organizações públicas na implantação do Programa, o que leva,
como já se disse, a uma arquitetura institucional mais compatível com a complexidade do
problema a enfrentar ­ fato destacado no ICR. Para o futuro, novas ações podem ser
incorporadas a um Programa semelhante ao que coordenamos, como atividades de assistência
social ou culturais, importantes por múltiplos motivos em áreas periféricas metropolitanas.

No entanto, o desafio de gerenciamento de um programa multi-institucional apresenta aspectos
que estão longe da trivialidade. O Programa Guarapiranga comprovou que o esforço cooperativo
é possível, mas este é um tema que merece atenção permanente, no sentido de identificar meios de
estimular e consolidar uma postura de commitment de governos e executores com a
implementação e os resultados do Programa.

3. Um destaque significativo do Programa foi a urbanização de favelas, tanto pelos valores
agregados investidos quanto pela natureza técnica e urbana das intervenções. Convém ressaltar,
conquanto óbvio, que este foi um tratamento ad hoc a uma situação que se estabeleceu à margem
da legislação de uso do solo urbano. De certa maneira, o conjunto destas intervenções foi possível
porque não há uma legislação acerca da urbanização, ou qualquer outro tipo de tratamento físico,
de favelas. A inadequada ocupação populacional de bacias hidrográficas de mananciais, e de
outras áreas ambientalmente sensíveis, é certamente resultado de fenômenos mais abrangentes da
economia metropolitana/urbana mas, chama-se a atenção para este aspecto, também de uma dupla
dificuldade legislativa: por um lado, de incentivos de mercado que estimulem ocupações
adequadas, quando da virtual impossibilidade de manutenção das condições originais do território;
por outro, de idéias e estratégias que permitam lidar com o que se pode qualificar de
informalidade urbana. A legislação visa sempre à economia formal; não obstante, periferias
metropolitanas crescem sob a marca da informalidade.

A nova legislação de mananciais do Estado de São Paulo, ora em processo de alteração, o que
está esclarecido e bem comentado no ICR, busca abrir condições de excepcionalidade para o
tratamento destes cenários de informalidade e pobreza urbana. Provou-se, porém, que este é um
debate de idéias que avança lentamente, com um cronograma que ultrapassa sempre as
expectativas iniciais. É muito positivo que o ICR mencione a necessidade de perseverança e
paciência quando lidamos com estas questões, ainda que datas-limite contratuais não possam ser
integralmente cumpridas. Sem o Programa Guarapiranga, provavelmente estaríamos desprovidos
de um caminho inovador para a gestão dos territórios de mananciais onde se mostra relevante a
ocupação urbana.

4. O Programa Guarapiranga apresentou uma característica que vale a pena ressaltar e, sobretudo,
intensificar em programas análogos futuros. Ao mesmo tempo que manteve a fidelidade ao seu
design e aos seus objetivos iniciais, que haviam sido bastante bem elaborados, houve capacidade
técnica de reavaliação das intervenções propostas ou em desenvolvimento, o que levou, por sua
vez, a uma realocação relativa de prioridades e de recursos. Um exemplo foi o da urbanização de
favelas, onde ocorreu uma mudança no partido técnico dos projetos, seguramente para melhor, a
partir do segundo lote de obras da Prefeitura Municipal de São Paulo. Outro exemplo diz respeito



                                                 - 35 -

às ações na Estação de Tratamento de Água da Sabesp, que pôs ao menos temporariamente de
lado, a partir de um estudo especializado, uma intervenção de grande porte, como a ozonização
de parte do processo adotado na Estação, em favor de soluções de ordem intermediária,
extremamente úteis e de custo de investimento e de operação bem menor.

Dadas as múltiplas intervenções do Programa, é de todo conveniente que sua implantação seja
acompanhada detidamente, fazendo com que haja uma constante avaliação, sempre sobre a base
de uma ligação muito forte entre experiência prática e projetos/idéias. Pelo fato da área de
intervenção apresentar características de precariedade urbana e de pobreza muito evidentes, o
Programa de certa forma constituiu um "laboratório" ­ mas um laboratório controlado, é bom que
se diga ­ de experiências de intervenção que produziram, a um só tempo, avanço de
conhecimento técnico real e ações concretas mais efetivas, eficientes. Neste sentido, o Programa
foi uma oportunidade ­ tanto quanto se espera que o Programa Mananciais, ora em preparação, o
seja ­ para a geração de melhor teoria e de melhor prática. O que certamente seria muito positivo
no futuro é aproveitar oportunidades semelhantes para melhor disseminar e mais
aprofundadamente discutir tais experiências de alguma forma inovadoras. Isto implica dizer que
no debate sobre políticas e formas de intervenção nas aglomerações urbanas densas,
metropolitanas, um Programa como o do Guarapiranga tem mais a contribuir do que nós todos
imaginamos ­ de certa forma, mesmo o Banco Mundial ­ quando do período de sua
implementação.

9.2 Alto Iguaçu Component

SUDERHSA

Avaliação da atuação da instituição, inclusive relação entre os diversos executores, durante a
implementação do PROSAM, salientando as lições aprendidas e sua relevância para o futuro. A
SUDERHSA desenvolveu em conjunto com a Secretaria de Planejamento e outras entidades
diversos programas projetos e intervenções na bacia do Alto Iguaçu para atendimento ao
Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Região Metropolitana de Curitiba - PROSAM a saber:

1. Programa de Simulação de cheias e monitoramento de bacia do Alto Iguaçu
Sumário: O Programa contratou um projeto de monitoramento de precipitação pluviométrica na
Bacia do Alto Iguaçu bem como dos Rios tributários do Iguaçu, e do corpo principal, assim como
do Canal Paralelo, que foi construído para aumentar a capacidade hidráulica de escoamento desta
região sujeita a enchentes dentro da Região Metropolitana de Curitiba.
O projeto indicou a necessidade de implementar um sistema de monitoramento em tempo real, de
chuvas e de níveis de rios, assim como de qualidade das águas dos rios avaliados, bem como um
sistema de simulação, que com base em dados históricos, permite o alerta de níveis de cheias na
Região Metropolitana inserida dentro da Bacia do Alto Rio Iguaçu.
O programa foi implementado tendo sido executada ainda uma ligação com cabo de fibra ótica até
o Sistema Meteorológico do Estado do Paraná (SIMEPAR), bem como contratado um sistema de
predição de alturas de chuva para uma simulação mais efetiva dos possíveis níveis de cheia na
Região.




                                             - 36 -

Avaliação e lições: Os sistemas encontram-se operando a contento, e apenas o monitoramento da
qualidade está com alguns itens de monitoramento com dificuldades devido a carga dos rios de
matéria orgânica.
Talvez seja um dos itens com maior relevância para avaliação dos cenários de quantidade e
qualidade da água para a Região, e um dos pontos fundamentais do Programa. Houve um bom
entrosamento com as demais instituições envolvidas, e o sistema de predição em tempo real de
cheias foi um dos pioneiros a nível de Brasil.

2. Cadastro de Usos e Usuários da bacia do Alto Rio Iguaçu
Sumário: Levantamento cadastral dos principais usos (industriais, abastecimento público,
agricultura e irrigação etc.).

Avaliação e lições: O cadastro trouxe diversas informações que serviram de base para outros
estudos feitos na continuidade, a saber o Plano De Drenagem e o Plano de Despoluição indicando
percentuais de usos, e possibilitando estudo de quantidade e qualidade de despejos de cargas de
poluentes nos diversos tipos de industrias e outros usuários identificados.

3. Sistema de informações de uso do solo da bacia do Alto Iguaçu (GIS)
Sumário: Levantamento aerofotogramétrico, restituição em escala apropriada e construção de
sistema de base geográfica de informações digitais associada a bancos de dados ambientais e de
recursos hídricos para tomada de decisões sobre gestão em bacias hidrográficas do Alto Rio
Iguaçu.

Avaliação e Lições: O sistema encontra-se implantado, e tem prestado relevantes serviços em
especial no que diz respeito a implementação da gestão de recursos hídricos especialmente na
outorga de uso da água, um dos principais instrumentos da política de Recursos Hídricos no
Brasil.

4. Construção do Canal paralelo do Rio Iguaçu e Parque Metropolitano
Sumário: Construção de um canal de 40,00 m de largura com profundidade de 4,00 m, e extensão
de aproximadamente 21 Km, bem como de dois "polders" (loteamento São Judas Tadeu e
Cidade Jardim), com a finalidade de aliviar as cheias a montante com maior velocidade, bem
como delimitar um área entre o canal paralelo e o canal do Rio Iguaçu, onde obras de um parque
linear, com uso eventual para acumulação de cheias em eventos extremos.

Avaliação e Lições: O canal foi executado e desde sua implantação não ocorreram com tanta
freqüência problemas de enchentes, em especial nos locais mais baixos protegidos pelos polders.
Há necessidade de desassoreamento em virtude das baixas declividades da bacia . O canal foi de
extrema importância para a criação de uma área de lazer ao longo do eixo do parque
metropolitano, onde a área de preservação de várzeas dos antigos meandros do Rio Iguaçu
cumpre o papel de leito secundário em caso de cheias.

5. Plano de Despoluição da Bacia do Alto Iguaçu
Sumário: Plano com medidas de despoluição de curto médio e longo prazos (5-10-15 anos),
visando melhorar a qualidade do Rio Iguaçu, e de seus afluentes em sua porção inicial. Foram



                                               - 37 -

desenvolvidos cenários com medida s de intervenção, e comparados os resultados ambientais, e
possíveis ferramentas de decisão quanto a oportunidade de investimentos.

Avaliação e Lições: O Plano é parte em conjunto com o Plano de Drenagem de um possível
Plano de Bacia para o Alto Rio Iguaçu. Foram feitas simulações de evolução do cenário, em
diversas seções do trecho do Rio e comparada a possível qualidade com a legislação em vigor
quanto ao enquadramento do Rio Iguaçu, em sua porção da Bacia do trecho da Região
Metropolitana, como sugestão de tomadas de decisões para o comitê de Bacias Hidrográficas. Os
recursos da cobrança pelo uso d'água, e o retorno financeiro do Fundo Estadual de Recursos
Hídricos para o trecho em questão fariam o financiamento das obras em parte.

6. Plano de drenagem da bacia do Alto Rio Iguaçu
Sumário: Plano Diretor de macro e micro drenagem para a Região Metropolitana de Curitiba. O
plano previa uma série de intervenções a partir da simulação de modelos hidrodinâmicos, para os
diversos municípios da Região Metropolitana.

Avaliação e Lições: O plano tem algumas intervenções de macrodrenagem, para grandes obras de
contenção de cheias, assim como um manual de drenagem e treinamento de pessoal da Prefeituras
da Região Metropolitana de Curitiba, visando desenvolver a outra parte do plano de bacias do
Alto Rio Iguaçu. As medidas podem ser avaliadas de acordo com os critérios de prazo e valor
para sua implantação dentro de um plano global para o Rio Iguaçu. O plano é extremamente
oportuno para o futuro tendo em vista o crescimento populacional acelerado da região nos
últimos anos, triplicando a população, e o avanço da malha urbana sobre os rios da Bacia
Hidrográfica do Alto Iguaçu.

7. Plano de Modernização Institucional da SUDERHSA
Sumário: O Plano estudou as necessidades de atualização da Suderhsa para cumprir o seu papel
de ente regulatório das Agências de bacia, e para manter o papel de entidade balizadora da
política estadual de recursos hídricos do Paraná.

Avaliação e Lições: O plano mostrou a necessidade de modernização do aparato institucional da
SUDERHSA para cumprimento da nova política de Recursos Hídricos.

8. Desenvolvimento e Implantação do Sistema de Declaração de Uso de Recursos Hídricos e do
Automonitoramento, e Elaboração do manual de Outorgas
Sumário: O manual de outorga é o conjunto de normas e procedimentos da regulamentação do
Decreto de Outorga de Recursos Hídricos- Decreto 4646/2001. Os procedimentos de
automonitoramento e Declaração de uso de Recursos Hídricos prevêm normas de apresentação
da Declaração anual de uso dos recursos hídricos, medida de controle do uso dos recursos
hídricos.

Avaliação e Lições: O plano de automonitoramento, e o sistema de Declaração de uso de
Recursos Hídricos não foram colocados ainda em prática, mas são medidas inovadoras na gestão,
e podem trazer avanços significativos no futuro da implementação da política de recursos hídricos
do Estado do Paraná.



                                               - 38 -

A supervisão do Banco foi adequada e dentro do esperado para um organismo multilateral de
crédito, de fundamental importância para implantação de medidas estruturantes em especial no
campo da gestão ambiental, em intervenções multifocais como o presente PROSAM, devido ao
grande número de órgãos envolvidos e a natural complexidade e diversidade de disciplinas
envolvidas.

SANEPAR

Com relação ao ofício nº 223 ­ GS/SEPL, de 11 de junho de 2004, que encaminha cópia do
"Relatório de Conclusão do Programa ­ Implementation Completion Report (ICR)", elaborado
pelo Banco Mundial e onde também solicita breve comentário sobre a atuação da SANEPAR no
referido Programa, temos a informar:

O PROSAM foi negociado a partir de 1991 e o acordo de empréstimo foi firmado em
Dezembro/92. A SANEPAR realizou as primeiras contratações em 1.993, e o término do
Programa foi previsto inicialmente para 31.12.98. Em função de sucessivos ajustes no decorrer da
execução do Programa, este foi encerrado, no âmbito da SANEPAR, em Dezembro/2000.

Para o atendimento das atribuições, a SANEPAR desenvolveu ações nas seguintes atividades:
·       PEB - 07 - Estudos para Aproveitamentos Futuros de Mananciais
·       PMA - 01 - Reservatório e Canal de Desvio do Rio Iraí
·       PMA ­ 03.2 - Infra-estrutura Urbana e Reordenamento Territorial em Áreas de
Mananciais
·       PRA - 03 - Esgoto Sanitário

No início de 2001 foi emitido o RELATÓRIO FINAL, que foi encaminhado à UGP e integrou a
documentação enviada ao Banco Mundial. Este RELATÓRIO descreve detalhadamente todas as
ações da SANEPAR bem como as metas físicas e financeiras. O RELATÓRIO FINAL
encontra-se a disposição desta SEPL, que poderá solicitá-lo a qualquer momento.

Entendemos que a atuação da SANEPAR foi de suma importância para o atingimento dos
objetivos preestabelecidos e o bom desempenho da Empresa permitiu que os excedentes dos
recursos financeiros não utilizados por outras instituições fossem aplicados em obras de
saneamento, superando os valores inicialmente previstos, assim como as metas físicas.

O relacionamento mais intenso da SANEPAR no decorrer do Programa foi com a UGP e
transcorreu satisfatoriamente.

Conforme detalhado no RELATÓRIO FINAL, para acompanhamento dos resultados das ações
do PROSAM foi previsto um programa de monitoramento de indicadores físicos, ambientais,
operacionais e financeiros.

Os indicadores de responsabilidade da SANEPAR foram os seguintes:




                                              - 39 -

Indicadores Físicos:
Recuperação Urbana (expresso em número de famílias que passarão a ter saneamento básico) ­ a
meta de 14.220 famílias (1996) foi ultrapassada e atingiu 17.946 famílias;
Expansão da Rede de Esgoto (expresso em km de redes, coletores, interceptores e linhas de
recalque) ­ a meta de 1.110 km (1996) foi ultrapassada e atingiu 1.416 km;
Reatores Anaeróbios (expresso em quantidade de Estações de Tratamento de Esgotos construídas
e postas em operação) ­ a meta de 8 unidades foi cumprida.

Indicadores Operacionais:
Cobertura de Coleta de Esgotos (expresso em percentual da população urbana da RMC cujo
esgoto está ligado à rede pública) ­ a meta prevista era de 63% em 1992, readequada para 46%
em 1996 e ao encerramento do PROSAM, estava em 51%;
Tratamento Final de Esgoto (expresso em percentual da população urbana da RMC cujo esgoto é
coletado pela SANEPAR e tratado em alguma das ETE´s existentes e em operação) ­ a meta
prevista era de 65% em 1992, readequada para 57% em 1996 e ao encerramento do PROSAM,
estava em 65%.

Indicadores Financeiros:
Tarifa média por m3 de água (expresso em US$ / m3) ­ a meta de 1996 era de US$ 0,75/ m3,;
sendo que em Dezembro/2000 a SANEPAR atingiu a tarifa média de US$ 0,632 / m3;
Índice de Inadimplência (expresso em número de dias, correspondente a perda de receita por
inadimplência) ­ a meta de 57 dias em 1996 alcançou 65 dias em Dez/2000.

Como podemos verificar a SANEPAR cumpriu e ultrapassou a maioria dos indicadores físicos e
operacionais, não atingindo porém os indicadores financeiros, causados por motivos externos à
Empresa, tais como a desvalorização cambial de 1999, a aprovação de Leis Municipais de
Proibição de Corte, que elevou a inadimplência do Poder Privado, a própria inadimplência do
Poder Público.
Dentre as contribuições agregadas à SANEPAR pelo Banco Mundial na supervisão do Programa,
a mais importante foi a que introduziu na Empresa a prática de execução de PROJETOS
EXECUTIVOS para redes coletoras de esgotos antes da licitação das obras, permitindo a
CONTRATAÇÂO DE OBRAS POR PREÇOS GLOBAIS.

Estas medidas, aparentemente simples, possibilitaram importantes avanços de qualidade e maior
agilidade na execução das obras, propiciando redução nos custos finais das mesmas ao longo do
tempo.

9.3 National Component Objective
Borrower did not sent comments

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable




                                              - 40 -

10. Additional Information

Footnotes
1.    An additional demonstration component was financed as a separate project ­ the Minas Gerais Water
      Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loan 3554-BR). Refer to the respective ICR dated May 5, 2000.

2.    Throughout this report, the term headwater is used as the translation for the Portuguese term
      mananciais (upstream watersheds utilized for water supply and subject to special legislative protection
      in Brazil). The Guarapiranga watershed is a headwater, as are upstream reaches in the Alto Iguaçu
      such as the Irai watershed.

3.     Considering the Minas Gerais PQA as the third state demonstration component.

4.    In preparation for the creation of the Alto Tiete Basin Agency, the Committee for the Alto Tiete
      Basin was established under SIGRH. In 1997, the Sub-Committee for the Cotia-Guarapiranga Basins
      was established within the Alto Tiete Basin Committee. The Alto Tiete Basin Agency had not yet
      been legislated into existence by the state and municipal assemblies at the time of project closure.
      However a Guarapiranga Sub-Agency with a certain degree of liberty has been formed within the
      Alto Tiete Basin.
5.    A rain event of identical intensity only a few years earlier resulted in extensive flooding that affected
      15,000 persons and left 1,500 families without shelter.

6.    Seven decrees were published between July, 2000 and February, 2002 that regulate the functioning
      of SEGRH:
               - Conselho Estadual de Recursos Hídricos (Decreto nº 2.314/00);
               - Comitês de Bacias Hidrográficas (Decreto nº 2.315/00);
               - Participação de organizações civis de recursos hídricos (Decreto nº 2.316/0);
               - Competências da Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hídricos
                 (Decreto nº 2.317/00);
               - Outorga de direitos de uso de recursos hídricos (Decreto nº 4.646/01);
               - Fundo Estadual de Recursos Hídricos (Decreto nº 4.647/01);
               - Cobrança pelo direito de uso de recursos hídricos (Decreto nº 5.361/02).

7.    Margulis, S., G. Hughes, M. Gambrill and L.G.T. Azevedo, "Brazil: Managing Water Quality
      ­ Mainstreaming the Environment in the Water Sector," Brazil Country Department, The World Bank,
      Washington, DC, December 2002.

8.    This section on lessons learned also draws heavily on the corresponding ICR for the Minas Gerais
      Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (Report No. 20329 dated May 5, 2000). The two ICRs
      should be read together for a more complete understanding of the experience gained through the Brazil
      PQA projects.

9.    For a more complete discussion of indicator types and their application in urban environment projects,
      see: Bartone, CR, Urban Environmental Priorities, Environmental Strategy Background Paper, ENV, The
       World Bank, Washington, DC, January 2001.




                                                     - 41 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

1.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT
A. Indicators- Sewerage

                                                                                                                YEAR
                      Executing
     Indicator                           Unit           Status
                       Agency
                                                                       1992     1993       1994       1995      1996     1997     1998   1999   2000

     Physical

                                                Appraisal                   -       48.4      129.6     211.4    247.2      264.2      -      -      -
Collector             SABESP,                   MTR                         -          -           -     82.1    301.7      340.2  340.2      -      -
Network               CDHU &              Km
Expansion               PMSP                    Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      -  345.0  345.0
                                                Actual                      -          -           -     84.2    248.9      315.5  348.4  360.5  367.0
                                                Appraisal                   -      6,000    12,000     13,500    13,500    13,500      -      -      -
                      SABESP,
New Connections                                 MTR                         -          -           -      525    20,978    25,592 25,592      -      -
                      CDHU &              Un
to New Collectors
                        PMSP                    Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      - 26,300 26,300
                                                Actual                      -          -           -      546    15,883    21,308 24,730 28,970 40,200
                                                Appraisal                   -      8,000    22,000     36,200    42,200    45,000      -      -      -
New Connections                                 MTR                         -          -           -    1,300    6,500      6,500  6,500      -      -
to Existing            SABESP             Un
Collectors 1                                    Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      -  8,500  8,500
                                                Actual                      -          -           -      994    1,716      4,072  4,859  6,217  7,579
                                                Appraisal               2,500      4,500    11,500     16,000    18,000    18,000      -      -      -

Pipe                                            MTR                         -          -           -    2,215    4,430      4,430  4,430      -      -
                       SABESP             Un
Rehabilitation 2                                Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      -  5,000  5,000
                                                Actual                      -          -           -    1,033    1,584      2,849  3,906  4,701  5,386
                                                Appraisal                   -          -           -         -        -         -      -      -      -

Cleaning and                                    MTR                         -          -           -   13,300    26,600    26,600 26,600      -      -
                       SABESP         h x equip.
Repair                                          Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      - 60,000 60,000

                                                Actual                      -          -           -    9,204    20,562    34,597 51,050 59,895 66,232

Operational

                                                Appraisal                   -          -           -         -        -         -      -      -      -

Sewerage                                        MTR                         -          -           -    9,400    37,600    47,000 47,000      -      -
                       SABESP             Un
Coverage                                        Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      - 47,950 47,950
                                                Actual                      -          -      3,750    22,500    47,950    47,950 47,950 47,950 47,950
                                                Appraisal                   -          -           -         -        -         -      -      -      -
                                                MTR                         -          -           -    3,154    12,616    15,770 15,770      -      -
PV's Inspection        SABESP             Un
                                                Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      - 15,770 15,770
                                                Actual                      -          -           -    3,050    11,985    15,770 15,770 15,770 15,770
                                                Appraisal                   -          -           -         -        -         -      -      -      -
                                                MTR                         -          -           -      360    1,440      1,800  1,800      -      -
Rentals                SABESP             Un
                                                Restructuring               -          -           -         -        -         -      -  1,800  1,800
                                                Actual                      -          -           -      101    1,678      1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800



1. Including routine works carried out by SABESP to deal with population growth in the Basin, not funded by the World Bank.

2. Before February 1998, funded under contracts with the Program. Since 1998 this formed part of SABESP operational routine.




                                                                            - 42 -

B. Indicators- Urban Rehabilitation and Reforestry


                        Executing                                                                                         YEAR
    Indicator                                  Unit                Status
                          Agency
                                                                                   1992         1993          1994         1995      1996        1997       1998          1999          2000
Resettlement1
                                                            Appraisal                    80          800         1,800        2,900     3,700      3,700             -             -           -
São Paulo
                           PMSP            Households       MTR                            -             -             -        104       920      2,370       2,370               -           -
Municipality                                                Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -       2,370         2.370
                                                            Actual                         -             -             -        104       104        545       1,547         1,774         1,948
                                                            Appraisal                  -------------------------------- incluído no Município de São Paulo ---------------------------------
Embu,
Itapecerica &                                               MTR                            -             -             -          -       905        938         938               -           -
                          CDHU             Households
Embu-Guaçu                                                  Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -         534           534
Municipalities                                              Actual                         -             -             -          -         0          0         164           419           421

Urban Rehabilitation-Favelas

                                                            Appraisal                   800        4,500         7,000      10,500    15,000      15,000             -             -           -

São Paulo                                                   MTR                            -             -             -          -   10,401      10,401     10,401
                           PMSP            Households                                                                                                                              -           -
Municipality                                                Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -     15,000        15,000
                                                            Actual                         -             -             -        373     3,900      5,650       8,600       10,450        12,330
                                                            Appraisal                  -------------------------------- incluído no Município de São Paulo ---------------------------------
Embu,
Itapecerica &                                               MTR                            -             -             -          -     1,604      3,587       3,587               -           -
                          CDHU             Households
Embu-Guaçu                                                  Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -       2,631         2,631
Municipalities                                              Actual                         -             -             -          -         0        167       1,380         2,400         2,400

Infrastructure Improvement

                                                            Appraisal                      -     16,500        28,800       42,000    55,600      62,000             -             -           -

São Paulo                                                   MTR                            -             -             -          -   64,105      64,105     64,105
                           PMSP            Households                                                                                                                              -           -
Municipality                                                Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -     35,000      35.000 2
                                                            Actual                         -             -             -          -     6,300     16,800     22,000        32,000        34,850
                                                            Appraisal                  -------------------------------- incluído no Município de São Paulo ---------------------------------
Embu,
Itapecerica &                                               MTR                            -             -             -          -          -    12,344     12,344                -           -
                          CDHU             Households
Embu-Guaçu                                                  Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -       3,500         3.500
Municipalities                                              Actual                         -             -             -          -          -         0       1,150         2,950         3,200

Forestry

                                                            Appraisal                      -         560         1,920        3,280     4,480      4,480             -             -           -
                                                            MTR                            -             -             -          -       162        648         648
Forestry                   SMA                   ha                                                                                                                                -           -
                                                            Restructuring                  -             -             -          -          -         -             -         648           648
                                                            Actual                         -             -             -          -         0        390         648           648           648



1. Resettlements include removals of families to Dwelling Units (Complexes) and the relocation of families to new homes built within the urbanized slum areas.

2. Takes into account the number of families which benefited directly from infrastructure improvement works (water network, sewage, drainage, geotechnical consolidation and street-

surfacing). Costs were revised following the completion of the projects.




                                                                                 - 43 -

C. Indicators - Environment

                                                                                   YEAR
                 Executing
   Indicator                     Unit        Status
                   Agency
                                                       1992   1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Phosphate
                                        Appraisal       0.120   0.120  0.115  0.110  0.110  0.075      -      -      -
Water Intake                            MTR                 -       -      -  0.110  0.100  0.075  0.025      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
001)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -  0.025  0.025
                                        Actual              -   0.014  0.017  0.054  0.034  0.034  0.037  0.034  0.034

Embu-Guaçu                              Appraisal       0.040   0.040  0.040  0.040  0.040  0.040      -      -      -
River                                   MTR                 -       -      -  0.040  0.040  0.040  0.040      -      -
                  SABESP         mg/l
(BridgeGU-                              Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -  0.040  0.040
216)                                    Actual              -   0.043  0.029  0.035  0.030  0.075  0.038  0.043  0.029
                                        Appraisal       3.870   3.870  3.750  3.630  3.390  2.790      -      -      -
São José River                          MTR                 -       -      -  3.630  3.390  2.790  2.790      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
211)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -  2.790  2.790
                                        Actual              -   1.590  2.517  2.239  1.730  2.574  2.860  3.748  3.411

Suspend Sediment (SS)
                                        Appraisal          53      53     52     50     47     40      -      -      -
Water Intake                            MTR                 -       -      -     40     47     40     10      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
001)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -     40     40
                                        Actual              -      15     10     12     10     10     10     10    ND
                                        Appraisal          98      98     97     96     94     90      -      -      -
Embu-Guaçu                              MTR                 -       -      -     96     94     90     10      -      -
River (Bridge     SABESP         mg/l
GU-216)                                 Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -     40     40
                                        Actual              -     ND      10     15     18     15     30     25     24
                                        Appraisal          51      51     50     49     46     40      -      -      -
São José River                          MTR                 -       -      -     49     48     40     30      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
211)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -     40     40
                                        Actual              -     ND      96     48     69     85    108    277    223

Water Quality Index
                                        Appraisal          79      79     79     79     80   > 80      -      -      -
Water Intake                            MTR                 -       -      -     79     80   > 80   > 80      -      -
(Bridge GU-       CETESB         (1)
001)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -   >80    >80
                                        Actual              -      83     83     82     82     74     88     78     63
                                        Appraisal          59      59     61     63     68   > 80      -      -      -
Embu-Guaçu                              MTR                 -       -      -     63     68   > 70   > 70      -      -
River (Bridge     SABESP         (1)
GU-216)                                 Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -   >70    >70
                                        Actual              -  68.000     59     54     63     56     64     74     63

BOD
                                        Appraisal         3.0     3.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    1.0      -      -      -
Water Intake                            MTR                         -      -    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
001)                                    Restructuring               -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2
                                        Actual                    <2     <2      <2    <2     <2     <2       3      3
                                        Appraisal         2.0     2.0    2.0    2.0    1.0    1.0      -      -      -
Embu-Guaçu                              MTR                         -      -    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0      -      -
River (Bridge     SABESP         mg/l
GU-216)                                 Restructuring               -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2
                                        Actual                    <2     <2      <2    <2     <2     <2     <2     <2
                                        Appraisal          36      30     29     28     27     26      -      -      -
São José River                          MTR                 -       -      -     28     27     26     25      -      -
(Bridge GU-       SABESP         mg/l
211)                                    Restructuring       -       -      -      -      -      -      -     25     25
                                        Actual              -      24     45     37     34     80     32     51     60
(1) Values of Water Quality Index
    80 -100: Optimum
    52 - 79: Good
    37 - 51: Acceptable
    20 - 36: Not Good for Conventioanl Treatment
     0 - 19: Not Good for Water Supply




                                                          - 44 -

D. Indicators - Operational and Financial

                                                                                                               YEAR
   Indicator         ExecutingAgency            Unit       Status
                                                                          1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998    1999     2000
OPERATIONAL

                                                       Appraisal               40        57        71       86       88        89         -        -      -
Sewerage                                               MTR                       -         -        -       42       80        89        89        -      -
Coverage1                 SABESP                 %
                                                       Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         -    62.5    62.5
                                                       Actual                    -     45.0      45.0     45.0     55.0      56.0      59.3    60.7    61.0

Sewerage                                               Appraisal           10,800    15,900    20,300   25,500   26,700    26,700         -        -      -
Collectedof                                     1000   MTR                       -         -        -   25,500   26,700    27,600    27,600        -      -
Exported                  SABESP               m3/year Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         -   28,250 28,250
Volume2                                                Actual                    -         -   15,910   15,990   17,865    19,095    20,720   20,900 20,230

                                                       Appraisal           89,200    98,000   110,500   125,200 146,200   175,900         -        -      -

 SolidWaste    SãoPaulo,Embu,ItapecericadaSerra        MTR                       -         -        -   182,473 198,545   215,258   227,873
                                               ton/year                                                                                            -      -

Collected        and Embu-Guaçu Municipalities
           3                                           Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         - 202,055 202,055
                                                       Actual                    -   170,883  176,578   182,473 186,727   195,639   197,300 199,800 203,000

                                                       Appraisal               58        62        68       75       85      100          -        -      -
Solid Waste
Service        SãoPaulo,Embu,ItapecericadaSerra        MTR                       -         -        -       75       84        88        90
                                                 %                                                                                                 -      -

Coverage3        and Embu-Guaçu Municipalities         Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         -      90     90
                                                       Actual                    -       76        75       75       79        80        90      90     93

FINANCIAL

NationalTariff                                         Appraisal             1.60      1.54      1.40     1.31     1.29      1.13         -        -      -

Law(NTL)                                               MTR                       -         -        -     1.31     1.29      1.13      1.13
                          SABESP                  -                                                                                                -      -
Compliance                                             Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         -    1.13    1.13
Ratio                                                  Actual                    -     1.41      1.19     0.81     1.25      1.31      1.37      ND     ND

                                                       Appraisal               55        55        55       55       55        55         -        -      -

Accounts                                               MTR                       -         -        -       55       55        55        55
                          SABESP                days                                                                                               -      -
Receivables                                            Restructuring             -         -        -         -       -         -         -      55     55
                                                       Actual                    -         -        -         -     121      106        101      ND     ND


1. The figure of 62.5% refers to the percentage of the total number of people dealt with in the Basin. If the urban population (95% of the total) is
taken into account, the first percentage increases to 65.8%. If the most typically urban areas are considered urbanised areas, areas of urban expansion,
areas containing industries, areas used for purposes associated with the dam (excluding peri-urban/transitional and the natural/rural areas), the
percentage rises to 78%. The typically urban" areas correspond to 27% of the total territory of the Basin and contain 80% of its total population,
according to studies carried out under the PDPA (Guarapiranga Basin Development and Environmental Protection Plan). The recent increase in the
number of connections on existing networks has produced results: (i) as a result of the contract with the Guarapiranga Program and, above all (ii) as
the result of SABESP's own contracts. The bulk of areas with no arrangements in prospect are generally of `irregular status'.
2. Values adjusted by SABESP by new method of calculation
3. The volume collected underwent modification on account of: (i) the the percentage figures relating to each municipal authority: 91% for Sao Paulo,
90% for Embu, 90% for Itapecerica da Serra, 85% for Embu-Guaçu; (ii) the estimates of average generation per capita in each of the municipal areas.
Sao Paulo Municipality adopted a reduction on the average value (from 0.95 kg/day to 0.85 kg/day) and the remaining municipalities adopted the
values chosen in the study carried out by Tighe & Bond (0.74 kg/day for Embu; 0.53 kg/day for Itapecerica da Serra; 0.48 kg/day for Embu-Guaçu).
The calculations showed that the total amount of waste generated in the Basin was of the order of 219.245 tons/year (1998) and 224.506 tons/year
(1999). With the average figure weighted at 90%, the total volume collected (1998) was 199.800 tons/year and for 1999 a total of 199.800tons/ year.




                                                                        - 45 -

1.1.2 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT

Output Indicators

General Objective Activity    Item            Quantity     Specific Objectives and
                                                           Benefits
                  Enlargement Household         40.200un    Increased connections for the local
  TO INCREASE     of sewage   connections                   population (from 40% to 53%), and
    SCOPE OF      system                                    increased export of sewage to areas
SEWAGE SYSTEM                                               outside the basin, together with the

(SUBPROGRAM 1)                                              reduction of pollution reaching the
                                                            dam.
                              Collecting         367,0km
                              networks and
                              trunk
                              collectors
                             Treatment              23    Treatment of sewage generated in the
                             Plants                       Municipality of Embu-Guaçu Direct
                                                          benefit to about 55.000 inhabitants of
                                                          the Municipality of Embu-Guaçu
                                                          resulting from sewage treatment
                             Improving             2un
                             existing sewer               Swimming benefited as well as
                             networks                     water-based sports activities and
                                                          improvements made in the quality of
                                                          water for public supply, minimizing
                                                          the risks of eutrophication of the dam
                                                          as well as algae flotation
                              Operational       18.000un
                  Improving   improvement
                  Existing    of the existing
                  Sewer       sewage
                  Network     systems.
                              Rehabilitation      Done
                              of collecting
                              networks
                              Execution of       7.579un
                              ad hoc
                              connections
                              and
                              supplementin
                              g existing
                              sewer
                              connections
                              Cleaning,          26.600
                              unblocking         h x maq.
                              and repairs to
                              the existing
                              sewer system




                                           - 46 -

 General Objective Activity  Item              Quantity     Specific Objectives
                                                                and Benefits
TO INCREASE        Improving Inspection of       47.950un
SCOPE OF SEWAGE    Existing  existing
SYSTEM             Sewer     connections
(SUBPROGRAM 1)     Network

                             Inspection of       15.770un
                             PV's
                             Locating            1.800un
                             unusual
                             situations
                             Fine-tuning and      Done
                             integration of
                             water quality
                             information
                             networks
                             Supervision and      Done
                             Centralized
                             Control of EEEs
                             Works               150 l/s
                             concerned with
                             nutrient removal
                             from the
                             Córrego
                             Guavirutuba
   IMPROVING       Improving Technical         Done       Improvement of water
     WATER         water     development for              treatment processes in the
   TREATMENT       treatment introducing                  Alto da Boa Vista
 (SUBPROGRAM 1)    process   water treatment              (ETA-ABV) treatment
                             regarding                    plant by using new
                             removal of taste             processes and technology..
                             and odour- Pilot             Improvements in the water
                             ETA project                  quality distributed to about
                                                          3.000.000 inhabitants of
                                                          RMSP receiving supplies
                                                          from the Guarapiranga
                                                          system.
                             Works for            Done
                             implementation
                             of activated
                             charcoal system




                                           - 47 -

General Objective Activity    Item              Quantity             Specific
                                                                Objectives and
                                                                     Benefits
COLLECTION AND    Control and Works
  DISPOSAL OF     updating    concerned with
 SOLID WASTE      of the      environmental
(SUBPROGRAM 2)    collection  control of the
                  and final   systems of solid
                  disposal    waste collection
                  system      and disposal
                  for solid
                  waste

                              Municipality of               3
                                                 1.156 mil m
                              Embu
                              Municipality of      Done
                              Itapecerica da
                              Serra
                              Acquisition of                 Improvement in the solid
                              public urban                   waste collection and
                              cleaning                       disposal system and the
                              equipment                      urban cleaning system
                                                             due to the availability of
                                                             new equipment ad
                                                             improvements to the
                                                             maintenance and
                                                             operating procedures of
                                                             these equipment.
                              Construction of          2
                                                   256m
                              hangar for
                              storage and
                              recycling
                              garbage of
                              Jardim Angela




                                           - 48 -

General Objective  Activity      Item             Quantity   Specific Objectives
                                                                  and Benefits
                   Urbanization Municipality of    15,000   Urbanization of slum
                   of Slums      Sao Paulo         families nuclei including shoring

    URBAN                                                   up slopes, drainage and
                                                            water networks (71.995m
REHABILITATION                                              and 19.296 connections)
(SUBPROGRAM 3)                                              and sewers (109.106m
                                                            and 18.226 connections),
                                                            vehicular and pedestrian
                                                            access , paving etc.
                                                            Benefited 17.3630
                                                            families attended
                   Resettlement Municipality of     3,700   2.446 families, previously
                   of population Sao Paulo         families resident in slums,
                                                            benefited: 1.538 relocated
                                                            to housing units outside
                                                            the slum areas and 908
                                                            families to new dwelling
                                                            units within the existing
                                                            slums.
                                 In dwelling        1,253
                                 unit/complexes
                                 In slum             693
                                 Municipalities of   836
                                 Embu,
                                 Itapecerica da
                                 Serra and
                                 Embu-Guacu
                                 Dwellings/unit      238
                                 complex




                                          - 49 -

 General Objective  Activity      Item            Quantity         Specific Objectives
                                                                        and Benefits
URBAN               Improvement Municipality of      35,000       Improvement to the
REHABILITATION      to            Sao Paulo          families     street/road network
                    Infrastructure                                (926.450m2 de paving)
                                                                  and drainage network
(SUBPROGRAM 3)                                                    (79.193m of rainwater
                                                                  galleris), in addition to
                                                                  building containment
                                                                  walls (46.344m2) and
                                                                  re-landscping
                                                                  (12.910m2in degraded
                                                                  urban areas in order to
                                                                  contain erosion and
                                                                  ensure access for cleaning
                                                                  services.
                                  Municipality of 3,500 families Benefiting 35.000 families in the
                                  Embu,                          Municipality of São Paulo and 3.200
                                  Itapecerica da                 families in the Municipalities of
                                  Serra and                      Embu, Itapecerica da Serra and
                                  Embu-Guacu                     Embu-Guaçu
MANAGEMENT          EnvironmentalTechnical                       Training of professional and technical
(SUBPROGRAM 5)      education and training for                   staff for the management and
                    technical     management                     enforcement/inspection of the basin.
                    training      purposes                       Training of 210 individuals linked to
                                                                 executor organisations, local
                                                                 municipalities, public bodies and
                                                                 NGOs.
                                  NGO training                   Involvement of over 60.000 people on
                                                                 the Guavirutuba sub-basin in Campo
                                                                 Limpo, in the Municipality of São
                                                                 Paulo, with the participation of 44
                                                                 leaders, 26 associations and 24 public
                                                                 schools.




                                            - 50 -

 General Objective  Activity      Item             Quantity Specific Objectives
                                                              and Benefits
MANAGEMENT                        Health and
(SUBPROGRAM 5)                    Environmental
                                  Services
                                  Education
                                  Environmental
                                  education
                                  project to deal
                                  with recycling of
                                  solid waste at
                                  the Clube da
                                  Turma in the
                                  Jardim Ângela
                                  Environmental
                                  education
                                  project for
                                  teachers from
                                  the Jardim
                                  Ângela
                    Operation and Technical
                    Provision of  consultancy
                    Appropiate    specialised in
                    eqipment for water basin
                    Management management
                    of the basin
                                  Monitoring of
                                  the self-
                                  cleaning
                                  processes of
                                  water meadows
                                  and a viability
                                  study concerning
                                  interventions
                                  aimed at
                                  preservation of
                                  the water
                                  meadows in the
                                  basin




                                            - 51 -

 General Objective  Activity      Item              Quantity Specific Objectives
                                                               and Benefits
MANAGEMENT                        Re-registering of
(SUBPROGRAM 5)                    pollution sources
                                  and registration
                                  of special
                                  sources of
                                  pollution.
                                  Enforcement
                                  plan
                                  Integrated
                                  enforcement
                    Provision of  Equipment for      Done
                    equipment for the Information
                    management system
                    purposes
                                  Equipment          Done
                                  integrated
                                  enforcement
                                  Equipment for      Done
                                  fish renewal and
                                  sustainable
                                  fishing activities
                                  Equipment and      Done
                                  consultancies for
                                  operational units
                                  Equipment for      Done
                                  operation
                                  Equipment for      Done
                                  the
                                  rehabilitation of
                                  the EEE.




                                            - 52 -

1.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT

A. Physical Indicators

                                                                                            YEAR

      Indicator        ExecutingAgency    Unit            Status

                                                                    1992  1993  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
PhysicalIndicators
                                                   Appraisal          --  6,183 8,817 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
1.UrbanRehabilitation  COMEC/SANEPAR    Households EstimatedatMTR     --    --    --     --  1,072  1,422  1,422
                                                   Actual             --    --    --     --     --  5,137  11,154 17,171 17,946 17,946 17,946
                                                   Appraisal          --   782   618  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400
2.Ressetlement            COMEC         Households EstimatedatMTR     --    --    --     --  1,092  1,959  1,959
                                                  Actual              --    --    --     25     64    223    942  1,085  1,410  1,432  1,433
                                                  Appraisal         3,045 3,895   59  7,000  7,000  7,000  7,000
3.Expropiation            COMEC           Lots    EstimatedatMTR      --    --    --     --  1,148  2,148  2,148
                                                  Actual              --    --    --     --     --     --     --     94    340    360    373
                                                  Appraisal           --    --    --      8      7     15     15
4.IguacuDrainage        SUDERHSA          Km      EstimatedatMTR      --    --    --     --   10,3   17,3   17,3
                                                  Actual              --    --    --     9,6    9,6    9,8  12,8   22,5   26,8   28,8   28,8
                                                  Appraisal           30    80    80     60    250    250    250
5.UrbanDrainage             PMC           Km      EstimatedatMTR                              56,3   58,2   58,2
                                                  Actual                    1,2 16,9   27,1   35,5   61,2   64,4  69,05  69,06  69,06  69,06
                                                  Appraisal            9     9     9      9      9      9      9
6.BridgeRehabilitation      PMC           Km      EstimatedatMTR      --    --    --     --     13     13     13
                                                  Actual              --     1     8     12     13     14     17     29     32     32     32

7.Sewernetwor                                     Appraisal           77   270   260    309    185    189  1,290
                         SANEPAR          Km
Expansion                                         EstimatedatMTR      --    --    --     --    570  1,110  1,110
                                                  Actual              --     4   188    230    245    562  1,038  1,343  1,416  1,416  1,416
                                                  Appraisal           --     2     3      3      8      8      8
8.AnaerobicReactor       SANEPAR          Un      EstimatedatMTR      --    --    --     --     --     --     --
                                                  Actual              --    --    --     --     --     --      5      8      8      8      8
Notes:
1. Urban Rehabilitation :              "Urban Rehabilitation" indicates the number families who will receive basic
sanitation, no longer polluting water source areas. The indicator was initially the responsibility of COMEC, and
was changed to SANEPAR since this is the executor responsible for the implementation of water and sewer
systems.
The 1992 Loan Agreement stated as a target the provision of sanitary sewerage to 15,000 families: 70% (10,500
families) through a collection network and treatment station, and 30% with septic tanks. The 1996 Loan
Amendment changed this target to 14,220 families.
The works were executed under the PMA-03 Subproject ­ Urban Infrastructure and Land Use Replanning in
Water Source Areas, and encompass areas for the Bonilauri (Municipality of Pinhais), Timbu (Municipality of
Campina Grande do Sul) and Âncora (Municipality of Piraquara) resettlements and urbanized areas in water
source areas situated in the municipalities of Piraquara, São José dos Pinhais, Quatro Barras, Campina Grande
do Sul and Colombo.

2. Resettlement: The target established in the 1992 Loan Agreement was to relocate 1400 families. By the first
semester of 1996 a preliminary survey was made of 1959 families occupying risky areas and permanent
preservation strips along rivers in water source areas. This value figured in the 1996 Loan Amendment.
With the ongoing movements to occupy areas and due to the great practical difficulty of keeping those areas that
were released through free settlements from new and irregular occupation, the State Government proposed to,
and obtained from the Legislative Assembly the approval of the Special Law for Protection of Water Sources in
the Curitiba Metropolitan Region (Law Nº 12.248/98) which creates and establishes the conditions for land use
planning which is compatible with environmental protection and with current urban occupation, favoring by
means of market mechanisms the increase in value of areas previously depreciated due to excessively strict soil
use criteria. Thus, the PROSAM resettlement program was limited to the 1434 families who were located in
areas of high flood risk or in areas that would interfere with works carried out under the Program.




                                                                  - 53 -

Therefore, four areas were prepared, as indicated below, to receive the persons to be resettled. The areas were
provided with infrastructure including streets, drainage, drinking water, sanitary sewer system and electricity;
they were also provided, either directly or by strengthening services in nearby areas, with health, educational
and collective transportation services.
Through the Curitiba Metropolitan Region's Housing Plan and COMEC, COHAB-CT, COHAPAR, the Curitiba
Municipal Secretariat of Metropolitan Affairs and other municipal governments, housing areas are being opened
and provided with infrastructure southwest of Curitiba and in neighboring municipalities. Those families who
will leave the areas through mechanisms to decrease population density as stipulated in the Special Law for the
Protection of Water Sources, will be given incentives to settle in the new areas, according to guidelines already
defined within the set of policies for the consequent plans. These guidelines are compatible with those agreed
with the Bank for the PROSAM resettlements.

3. Expropiation: At the time that PROSAM was being prepared, it was noted that in water source areas there
were over 30,000 empty urban lots which, if occupied, could hold a population of 150,000 inhabitants. This
occupation would seriously jeopardize this region from an environmental standpoint and affect water supply to
the Curitiba Metropolitan Region, since over 70% of water is supplied from the Upper Iguaçu. Thus, for
purposes of controlled urbanization in the area, it was expected that 7000 lots would be expropriated, including
those in the permanent preservation area along river banks and those of areas with greater risks for flooding. In
1996, at the time of the Mid-Term Review which resulted from the 1996 Loan Amendment, in terms of the
intensification of movements aimed at invasions and irregular occupation of areas, it was noted that there was a
great practical difficulty in keeping areas unoccupied after expropriation.         It was then decided to limit
expropriations to more critical lots in terms of water source protection, to those more subject to flooding, and to
those located in areas of flood works and control.         It was also decided to intensify efforts to provide
infrastructure for areas of occupation in water source areas, including a sanitary sewage collection and treatment
system. Thus, in the 1996 Loan Amendment, the expropriation target was reduced to 2148 lots. Later, with the
Special Law for the Protection of Water Sources in the Curitiba Metropolitan Region, expropriations were
limited to areas needed for flood control works and for lots with greater risk of flooding.

4. Iguacu Drainage: In the preliminary studies performed at the time of PROSAM's preparation, it was
concluded that there was a need to execute works along 15 km. of the river; this number was included as a target
in the 1992 Loan Agreement. When the 1996 Mid-Term Review was carried out, mathematical model studies
performed as part of the Program indicated the need for works along 28.3 km. The 1996 Loan Amendment
called for 17.3 km since at that time the Program was expected to be concluded in 1997 and the remaining 11.0
km. would be carried out in 1998, after the closing of the Program. With the closing of the project, the total
extent of the works was defined as 28.8 km, along with dredging to form the proper contour of the 9.3 km
parallel canal which was executed on an emergency basis during the first phase of the Program.

5. Urban Drainage: The 1992 Loan Agreement included as a target 250 km. of drainage works which included
works to extend the network and clean the existing network. The 1996 Loan Amendment only included works
to extend tubular and cellular networks and to open new canals or line existing canals. Cleaning of the network
and minor works was excluded from the Program. The 1996 Loan Amendment stated as a final target works
extending for 58.15 km. The proposal of the Curitiba Municipal Government at the time of the Mid-Term
Review in June 1996 was to carry out 60 km. of works, 1.85 km of them in the year 1998. Since at that time the
Program was expected to conclude in 1997, this portion was not included in the 1996 Loan Amendment.

6.Bridge Rehabilitation: The target of the 1992 Loan was the construction of 9 bridges. In the 1996 Loan
Amendment, this target was increased to 13 bridges in terms of projects executed and works contracted until
that time. With the works detailed later, especially due to drainage canals in the Lower Cajuru, it became
necessary to implement more bridges. In general these are small, low-cost bridges, so as not to interrupt the
local community's means of access as well as to maintain and improve means of communications. The large
increase in bridges did not affect the budget forecast for subprojects under the responsibility of the Curitiba
Municipal Government.




                                                        - 54 -

7. Sewer Network Expansion: The 1992 Loan Agreement called for the execution of 1920 km. of network.
The 1996 Loan Amendment included as a final target works extending 1110 km. SANEPAR's proposal at the
time of the Mid-Term Review in June 1996 was to keep the initial target of 1290 km, 180 km of which would be
carried out in 1998. Since at that time the Program was expected to be concluded in 1997, this parcel was not
included in the 1996 Loan Amendment. Expansions of the sewer network are being carried out under the
PMA-03.2 ­ Urban Infrastructure and Land Use Replanning in Water Source Areas and PRA-03 ­ Sanitary
Sewer Subprojects. .

8. Anaerobic Reactor: The 1992 Loan Agreement stated as a target the construction of 8 sanitary sewer
treatment stations. At the time of the 1996 Mid-Term Review, SANEPAR indicated that by the end of the
Program, expected in 1997, no reactor would be completed but that the following year, 1998, 5 reactors would
be completed and would begin operating. Thus, the 1996 Loan Amendment did not include as a target any
Anaerobic Rector. SANEPAR, in order to define the number of stations to be executed under the Program, used
the Sewerage Master Plan for the Curitiba Metropolitan Region which was developed in the 1980s. Thus, 8
stations were adopted for construction. Throughout the Program, revisions were made and it was decided to
execute one large-scale station (Atuba Sul) instead of two medium-scale (Atuba Norte and Atuba Sul) stations,
and it also became necessary to execute the stations called for in the PMA-03.2 Subproject ­ Urban
Infrastructure and Land Use Replanning in Water Source Areas, i.e., Martinópolis (Borda do Campo) and
Menino Deus (Campina Grande do Sul), as well as Iguaçu I (São José dos Pinhais). With these changes, the
final number of stations to be constructed was revised to 7, i.e., Atuba Sul and Santa Quitéria (Curitiba),
Cachoeira (Araucária), Cambuí (Campo Largo), Martinópolis (Borda do Campo), Menino Deus (Campina
Grande do Sul) and Iguaçu I (São José dos Pinhais). In July 1998, the construction of one more small-scale
station (20 l/s) was included, in Araucária, on the Iguaçu River, thus totaling 8 stations under the scope of the
Program as initially foreseen.


B. Environmental Indicators


             Executing                                                               YEAR
  Indicator              Unit       Status
               Agency                           1992    1993   1994    1995   1996    1997   1998  1999   2000   2001  2002
Environmental Indicators
1. Total                NMP/1 Appraisal            --       -- >20.000 20,000  10,000  5,000 5,000
Collitorm       IAP           Estimated at MTR     --       --      --     --      --     --    --
Control                 00ml  Actual
2. Total                      Appraisal
Collitorm       IAP           Estimated at MTR                                 10,000  8,000 8,000
Control ***                   Actual                    80,000 80,000  80,000  80,000 50,000
2. Dissolved                  Appraisal            --       --      --     2       2      6      6
Oxygen          IAP      mg/l Estimated at MTR                                     2      3      3
Control                       Actual                                                                 2,27  1,95   2,58     2
                              Appraisal            --       --     15     10       5      3      3
3. BOD          IAP      mg/l Estimated at MTR                                    15     10     10
                              Actual                       23      36     21       4      7      5  16,50  20,16 12,22 40.83

Notes:
1. Total Coll Control: This indicator is no longer being considered, in accordance with item 24 of the
Aide-Mémoire of the November 18-20, 1998 Mission. "NMP/100 ml" means a more probable number for each
100 ml. The 1992 Loan Agreement called for gauging Total Coliforms, with a final goal of reaching 5,000
NMP/100 ml after the implementation of all PROSAM works. In the 1996 Loan Amendment the indicator was
changed to Fecal Coliforms, with the final goal of 8,000 NMP/100 ml. Due to the enormous variations
presented in the results of samples, the idea of utilizing the methodology presented in October 1998 to calculate
the average value of fecal coliforms was rejected. These variations are justified by:
-Variations in hydrology that directly influence dilution and thus changes in concentration;
-Daily/seasonal variations in loads, in terms of distance between dumping points and the sampling point and the
collection time;



                                                         - 55 -

-The method's level of imprecision, based on a probability equation for estimating the number of fecal coliforms
in 100 ml, based on multiple dilutions of the initial sample in a lactosate solution, and checking for the
formation of colonies in these colonies;
-Since bacteriological activity is dependent on the substrate (food) available in the environment, the isolated
analysis of coliform values, without considering the results of other analyses such as Total Carbon, Toxicity, pH,
temperature and other elements, is foolhardy, since the stage of the colony's growth over time and its
evolutionary trend are not known;
-The expansion of urban occupation in the metropolitan region brings with it a series of problems that mask the
real evolution in the improvement of water quality, especially if there is later dumping in recovered areas.
For these reasons, it is understood that consideration of the indicator of coliforms, whether fecal or total, as
goals of the program's progress, was wrong, aggravated by the fact that this was done without a prior definition
of sampling conditions.
­During the World Bank mission of November 18-24, 1998 (item 24 of Aide-Mémoire), it was decided that
Fecal Coliforms will no longer be considered for purposes of the contractual monitoring of the Program.

2. Dissolved Oxygen Control: For Dissolved Oxygen, contrary to other environmental indicators, the higher
the value, the better the river's status. At the Program's start-up, the numbers presented as realized values were
the results of the last sample analyzed that year at a previously selected place. Due to the proposals suggested in
the document entitled "Monitoring Indicators ­ Review of Monitoring Criteria and Methodology," it is possible
to obtain a weighted annual average value for the Program's region. Although the study recommends obtaining
the average value by carrying out a minimum number of annual samples, it is possible to obtain an average
value even without the level of acceptable statistical significance defined in the study.

3. DBO: "DBO" means Biochemical Demand for Oxygen. At the Program's start-up, the numbers presented as
realized values were the results of the last sample that year in a previously selected place. Due to the proposals
suggested in the document entitled "Monitoring Indicators ­ Review of Monitoring Criteria and Methodology,"
it is possible to obtain a weighted annual average value for the Program's region.             Although the study
recommends obtaining the average value by carrying out a minimum number of annual samples, it is possible to
obtain an average value even without the level of acceptable statistical significance defined in the study.


C. Operational Indictors

             Executing
  Indicator              Unit       Status                                       YEAR
               Agency                           1992  1993   1994   1995 1996 1997     1998 1999   2000  2001  2002
OperationalIndicators
                             Appraisal            45     50     54    59    61     63    63
1.Sewerage
Coverage     SANEPAR      % EstimatedatMTR                                  43     46    46
                             Actual                      42     41    41    42     46    46    48     48   50.0    50
2.Final                      Appraisal            17     --     --    --     --    65    65
Sewerage     SANEPAR      % EstimatedatMTR                                  46     57    57
Treatment                    Actual                      36     38    40    40     60    60    60     64    64     64
3.Solid                      Appraisal            40     50     60    70    80     90    90
Waste                        EstimatedatMTR                                 60     70    70
Collection     COMEC      %

Cover                        Actual                      62     62    62    62     62    84    84     95    95   95.00

Notes:
1. Sewerage Coverage: The 1992 Loan agreement predicted that at the end of the Program, sewerage coverage
would reach 63%. The 1996 Loan Amendment changed this goal to 46%.

2. Final Sewerage Treatment: The Program initially called for the implementation, by SUDERHSA, of the
Northern Sanitary Landfill, Transfer Station and purchase of Trash Collection Vehicles with PROSAM
resources. The Loan agreement also predicted that with this system implemented and operating, a 90% index of
solid waste collection coverage would be reached. Later, it was agreed that the Program would finance only the




                                                         - 56 -

purchase of trash collection vehicles, the studies and the preparation of documentation that would permit
bidding for the awarding of trash collection services and final dumping of the Curitiba Metropolitan Region's
solid waste, through private initiative. The 1996 Loan Amendment reduced the final target for coverage to
70%.

The rather complex attempts to integrate the State Government and Municipal Governments of the Curitiba
Metropolitan Region in the unified awarding of trash collection services and final dumping of solid waste, with
a fee charged to users, are underway. Although the new system is not implemented, there was a substantial
improvement in household solid waste collection services in municipalities near Curitiba. This improvement is
due mainly to the implementation of the following actions:

Acquisition by the Program and assignment to regional governments, of 12 trash collection trucks,
complementing the fleet adjustments carried out by these municipalities;
Utilization by municipalities near Curitiba of the Cachimba Sanitary Landfill, owned by the Curitiba Municipal
Government;
Presentation by COMEC of six technical-professional training seminars;
Promotion by COMEC of the work of raising the awareness of local governments' technical and administrative
staff;
Efforts by the local governments themselves to improve services by purchasing equipment or hiring companies
to provide services.

3. Solid Waste Collection Coverage: The Program initially called for the implementation, by SUDERHSA, of
the Northern Sanitary Landfill, Transfer Station and purchase of Trash Collection Vehicles with PROSAM
resources. The Loan Agreement also predicted that, once this system was implemented and operating, a 90%
index of solid waste collection coverage would be reached. Later, it was agreed that the Program would finance
only the purchase of trash collection vehicles and final dumping of the Curitiba Metropolitan Region's solid
waste, through private initiative. The 1996 Loan Amendment reduced the final target for coverage to 70%.
The rather complex attempts to integrate the State Government and Municipal Government of the Curitiba
Metropolitan Region in the unified awarding of trash collection services and final dumping of solid waste, with
a fee charged to users, are underway. Although the new system is not implemented, there was a substantial
improvement in household waste collection services in municipalities near Curitiba. This improvement is due
mainly the implementation of the following actions:
Acquisition by the Program and assignment to regional governments, of 12 trash collection trucks,
complementing the fleet adjustments carried out by these municipalities;
Utilization by municipalities near Curitiba of the Cachimba Sanitary Landfill, owned by the Curitiba Municipal
Government;
Presentation by COMEC of six technical-professional training seminars;
Promotion by COMEC of the work of raising the awareness of local governments' technical and administrative
staff;
Efforts by the local governments themselves to improve services by purchasing equipment or hiring companies
to provide services.




                                                      - 57 -

D. Financial Indicators

                                                                                          YEAR
   Indicator   Executing Agency  Unit          Status
                                                          1992   1993   1994  1995  1996  1997 1998 1999  2000  2001  2002
Financial Indicators
1. NTL                                  Appraisal           1.43   1.35   1.28 1.20   1.13 1.05 1.05
Compliance        SANEPAR       (US$/m3) Estimated at MTR                             0,75 0,75 0,75
Ratio                                    Actual                    0,87   0,63 0,67     1  0,87 0,87 0,62   0,62 0,62   0,62

2. Accounts                             Appraisal            38     36     34    32    30    30   30
                  SANEPAR        days   Estimated at MTR                               60    57   57
Receivable
                                        Actual                      58     57    70    64    58   58   60    65    65     65

3. Garbage                               Appraisal           60     65     70    80    90   100  100
                    COMEC         %                                                    65    70   70
Cost Recovery                            Estimated at MTR
                                         Actual                     60     60    60    60    60   60   67    87    87     87
Notes:
1. NTL Compliance Ratio: The 1992 Loan Agreement called for the monitoring of the factor in question
through "Observance of the NTL Ratio" (National Tariff Law). Under the 1996 Loan Amendment it was
decided to compare the indicator with the Average Tariff per m3 of water.
The Federal Government's exchange rate policy and the maxi-devaluation that took place in early 1999 give rise
to distortions in the interpretation of this indicator. However, from 1994 to 1999, SANEPAR's tariffs in Reais
underwent an accumulated adjustment of 82% compared to inflation (IPC-FGV) of 66% for the same period.
2.Accounts Receivable: The 1992 Loan Agreement stipulated 30-day non-compliance as a final goal of the
Program The 1996 Loan Amendment changed this figure in the final goal to 57 days.

3. Garbage Cost Recovery: At the start-up of the Program, a survey and estimate were made of cost recovery at
that time, arriving at 60%. Based on a survey of data referring to 1997, with regard to specific expenses and
revenues in each municipality of the Curitiba Metropolitan Region, a weighted total value of Cost Recovery of
67% was reached. The municipality of Curitiba recovered 79% of costs, while other municipalities in the
Region recovered only 31%, on average. These indices consider non-compliance by users.
The indicator should show a great improvement following bidding for concession and the implementation of a
solid waste system by private initiative and through charges of fees.




                                                              - 58 -

1.2.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT

Output Indicators

   General Objectives            Products        Quantities        Specific Objectives
      I. IMPROVEMENT OF THE DRAINAGE CONDITIONS AND FLOOD CONTROL OF THE RIVER
                              IGUAÇU AND OF THE URBAN NETWORK
 IGUAÇU/DRAINAGE              · Parallel
 Building of Overflow           Channel                       · Activities    aimed    at    reducing
 Channel, Retifications and   1ª Phase         9,3 km           intensity and frequency of flood
 Dredging Activities in the   2ªPhase Clean    6,4 km           waters.
 River Iguaçu.                water -                         · In the Loan Agreement Contract
                               Downstream -    3,4 km
      (Subproject PRA-01)                                       dredging of 15 km of the River
                              · Rectification  8,9 km           Iguaçu was projected. The 1996
                              · Dredging in                     Contract Addendum changed this
                                existing                        figure to a target of 17,3 km.
                                Channel                       · The `clean water'concept already
                                  -                             used in the existing Sanepar
                                    Configur                    project was to be employed to
                                    ation of                    increase the size of the overflow
                                  -     Other  0,8 km           canal upstream from highway BR-
                                  stretches                     277, with the aim of fulfilling two
                                                                functions:    flood    control   and
                                                                maintenance of the water quality.
                                                              ·  Following the conclusion of the
                              TOTAL            28,8 km          project it became necessary, in
                                                                addition a larger parallel canal, to
                                                                carry    out     rectification   and
                                                                dredging work in certain stretches,
                                                                resulting in a final length of 28,8
                                                                km.

 URBAN DRAINAGE               · Tubular              58,5 km  · Activities aimed at improving the
 Building of urban drainage     Gallery                         drainage conditions in urban areas
 networks including networks  · Celular              4,5 km     and solving localised problems.
 of tubular and cellular        Gallery                       · The Loan Agreement Contract
 galleries and lining of      · Channel                         projected    250    km    of   works
 channels.                      lining               0,7 km     concerning extending and cleaning
      (Subproject PRA-02)                                       drains and the stabilisation of 11
                                                                km of sloping areas. In the 1996
                                                                Contract    Addendum        stemming
                                                                from the Half Term Review the
                                                                target was amended to 58,5 km of
                                                                new urban      drainage works and
                                                                slope stabilisation was omitted.
                                                              · In the course of the works it was
                                                                decided to carry out further major
                                                                works under        PROSAM. The
                                                                smaller works complementing the
                                                                250km originally planned were
                                                                carried out exclusively with own
                                                                resources or with funds from other
                                                                programs.




                                                 - 59 -

 General Objectives                Products              Quantities         Specific Objectives
                        III.  PROTECTION AND USE OF SUPPLY HEADWATERS
EFFLUENTS                    · Land levelling               12.234 m3  · The garbage dump ("lixão")
Works designed to            · Surface drainage                           had been out of action for a
preserve, treat and dispose  · Deep drainage                20.961 m      number of years and required
of effluents from the        · Drainage gases                             maintenance and improvements
Lamenha Pequena              · Liquid effluent                            for treating liquid and gaseous
"Lixão". .                     treatment pond               7.641 m       effluents.
(Subprojects PMA-04.1 e                                                · During the execution of the
PMA-04.2)                    · Treatment of gaseous           32 m
                               effluent                                   works,    it  was    decided    to

                                                            3.025 m2      suppress     the   land-levelling
                                                                          planned for the south slope of
                                                                          the garbage dump due to the
                                                                          risk involved in destabilising
                                                                          the area. This resulted in a
                                                              48 m        considerable reduction of the
                                                                          volume     of    land   levelling
                                                                          originally foreseen.
RIO IRAI DAM                 · Escavation                  601.278 m3  · The aim of the dam is to
Construction of a dam on     · Ballast                     726.596 m3     regulate the flow of the River
the River Iraí to supply     · Concrete                     2.475 m3      Iraí and therby ensure the
water                                                                     supply of 1,6 m3/s of drinking
     (Subproject PMA-                                                     water and a reduction of the
     01)                                                                  effects of flooding.
                                                                       During the execution of the work a
                                                                       hitherto unknown species of local
                                                                       fauna was discovered called
                                                                       a"small flow monkey". This
                                                                       became the object of specific study.
URBAN                        · Expropriation of                400     · The aim of the activities is to
REORDERING IN                  plots                                      resettle residents located in the
HEADWATER AREAS                (up to 20.000 m2)                          permanent conservation areas
AND IN THOSE                 · Expropriation of                51         near to the water courses and in
AREAS UNSUITABLE               glebes (> 20.000                           other inappropriate locations.
FOR HUMAN                      m2)                                     · The Loan Contract planned for
HABITATION                   · New plots for                  1.446       the resettlement of         1.400
                               resettlements                              famílies and the expropriation
Resettlement of residents    · Housing Modules                            of 7.000 plots.
and expropriation of plots     for Resettlements               703     In the 1996 Contract Addendum,
located in                   · Resettlements                           the targets were revised to resettle
environmentally- sensitive     (Families)                     1.433    1.959 families amd the
areas or in places which                                               expropriation of 2.148 plots.
are unsuitable for human
habitation.

(Subproject PMA-03.1)
SANITATION                   · Water supply                  160 km    · The aim of the works is to
INFRASTRUCTURE IN              network                                    endow urban settlements in the
THE HEADWATERS               · Sewage network                308 km       areas of the headwaters with
AREAS                        · Wastewater                                 appropriate        infrastructure,
Laying down in the             treatment plant                            water    supply    systems    and
headwaters areas of          · Number of families               2         wastewater             collection/
networked water facilities,    to benefit from the                        treatment facilities.
sewage networks and            sanitation initiatives                  · The Loan Contract projected
wastewater treatment plants.                                 17.946       urban     infrastructure   works
     (Subproject PMA-03.2)                                                covering 15.000 families.




                                                      - 60 -

 General Objectives                Products            Quantities      Specific Objectives
                             · Widening of the               1     · The activities are aimed at
PREVENTION OF ROAD             bridge                                preventing and protecting the
ACCIDENTS                    · Procurement of                        headwaters for the effects of
INVOLVING                      truck equiped to              1       road    accidents    involving
DANGEROUS LOADS                deal with relevant                    hazardous loads.    Widening
Widening of the bridge         accidents                             of bridge carrying the BR-
across the River Passaúna    · Procurement of a              1       277 highway over the river
and the purchase of a truck    support trailer                       Passaúna,         immediately
and trailer to deal with                                             upstream        from        the
accidents involving                                                  SANEPAR reservoir and the
dangerous cargoes.                                                   acquisition    of   a     truck
     (Subproject PMA-05)                                             equipped to deal with road
                                                                     accidents            involving
                                                                     hazardous loads, as well as a
                                                                     support-trailer.
   IV. ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION THROUGH INCREASING THE SEWAGE NETWORK AND
             OPTIMIZING THE COLLECTION OF SOLID AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WATE
STUDIES FOR USING            · EIA/RIMA of the               1     · Elaboration of EIA/RIMA with
FUTURE HEADWATERS              sub-compartments                      the aim of complying with the
Studies on the underground     Tranqueira,                           requirements        of        the
water in the KARST aquifer.    Cabeceira,                            environmental          licensing
     (Subprojects PEB-07.1,    Colombo, Várzea do                    authorities to make possible the
     PEB-07.2 and PEB-         Capivari and                          use of the Karst as a source of
     07.3)                     Almirante                             water supply.
                               Tamandaré
                             · Studies and
                               monitoring of areas           1     · Monitoring          of        the
                               for exploring the                     compartments of the KARST
                               KARST aquifer                         aquifer with regard to its future
                             · Pilot Plan for                        possible use as a headwater.
                               recharging the                1
                               KARST aquifer                          Study of the potential for
                                                                      recharging and testing out
                                                                      the potential of the KARST
                                                                      aquifer.
EXPANSION OF THE             · Procurement of                      · The activities aim to collect and
SEWAGE NETWORK                 trucks and                   17       treat sewage that was polluting
Expansion of the sewage        equipment for                         the   water    table  or    being
network and the building of    maintenance of                        discharged into the rainwater
treatment plants.              sewage networks                       system and the rivers basin.
     (Subproject PRA-03)                                           · The Loan Contract covered the
                             · Physical indicators:                  following            Monitoring
                               - Collecting Network                  Indicators   as   parameters    -
                               - Trunk collectors and                physical,    operational     and
                                    Interceptors           960 km    financial:
                               - Elevator Station          104 km
                                                                     - Expansion of the Sewage
                               - Treatment Plant             7            Network:
                                                                     - Sewage Treatment Plants:
                                                                     - Sewage              Collection
                                                                          Coverage        3 %
                                                                     - Final sewage treatment
                                                                     - NTL observance ratio
                                                                     - Index of non-payment




                                                     - 61 -

General Objectives                Products              Quantities     Specific Objectives
                            · Operational indicators:         6      In the Contract Addendum
                              - Sewage collection                    (1996) Sewage coverage was
                                coverage                             amended to 46%, Final Sewage
                              - Final sewage                         Treatment to 57%, the "NTL
                                treatment                            observance ratio = 1,05" was
                                                                     replaced by    "Average Water
                            · Financial indicators:                  Tariff = US$ 0,75/m3" änd the
                              - Average tariff for          50 %     Non-Payment       Index      was
                                m3 of water -               64 %     modified to 57 days.
                                US$/m3                             · The expansion of the sewage
                            · Level of non-                 0,62     networks     was     originally
                              payment of                             projected   at     1.290   km
                              water/sewage/days/y           65       (collecting  network,    trunk
                              ear                                    collector and interceptor), -
                                                                     covering   219   km     to  be
                                                                     executed in the headwaters
                                                                     areas and 1.071 km outside
                                                                     the areas. A total of 8 sewage
                                                                     treatment     plants      were
                                                                     established including those in
                                                                     the headwater areas.
COLLECTION AND              · Acquisition of garbage         12    · Long term solution to the
DISPOSAL SYSTEM FOR           trucks                                 problem of solid urban waste in
SOLID WASTE                 · Operational indicator:                 the   Metropolitan     Area   of
Establishment of a regional   - Coverage of urban           95 %     Curitiba.
system to deal with solid       area by garbage                    · The Program originally planned
waste from urban areas.         collection                           for the acquisition of garbage
    (Subproject PRA-04)     · Financial Indicator                    trucks and the establishment by
                              - Costs recovery from         87 %     SUDERHSA        of    the  north
                                garbage collection                   landfill  dump,     intermediate
                                                                     (transbordo) plants and the
                                                                     acquisition   of     appropriate
                                                                     vehicles financed by IBRD.
                                                                   · It was subsequently decided
                                                                     that the Program would fund
                                                                     only the procurement of the
                                                                     garbage trucks together with
                                                                     the studies and the eleboration
                                                                     of the tendering documentation
                                                                     which would be used in the
                                                                     bidding process regarding the
                                                                     concession of private sector
                                                                     garbage collection. Mainly on
                                                                     account of this amendment,
                                                                     there was a reduction of US$ 8
                                                                     million in IBRD funding for the
                                                                     Program.
                                                                   · The      financial      indicator
                                                                     regarding 100% recovery of
                                                                     collection costs and garbage
                                                                     treatment described in the Loan
                                                                     Contract can be achieved after
                                                                     the concession has been bid for,
                                                                     and implemented and with the
                                                                     charges duly collected. In the
                                                                     1996 Contractual Addendum
                                                                     this indicator was reduced to
                                                                     70%.




                                                      - 62 -

General Objectives              Products     Quantities     Specific Objectives
FINAL DISPOSAL OF        ·      Mobile            6     Aquistion of mobile incinerators
HOSPOTAL WASTE           incinerators                   for  infected   hospital  waste
Procurement of mobile                                   thereby finally resolving this
incinerators. (PRA-05)                                  problem in a safe way.




                                           - 63 -

1.3 FEDERAL COMPONENT

Studies at Appraisal                     Studies Completed
Piracicaba-Capivari e Jundaí (Sao Paulo) Piracicaba-Capivari e Jundaí (Sao Paulo)
Itajai
Mundau- Parnaíba
                                         Paraíba do Sul- Rio de Janeiro
                                         Paraíba do Sul- Sao Paulo
Manaus
Capibaibe, Beberibe, Jaboatao(Recife)    Capibaibe, Beberibe, Jaboatao(Recife)
                                         Alto Subae e Baixo Paraguacu (Bahia)




                                          - 64 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

2.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT
A. Project Cost by Component (US $ million)
                                                                                            Actual as a
                                                                Appraisal  Mid Term
                     COMPONENT                                                       Actual Percentage of Difference
                                                                Estimate    Review
                                                                                            Appraisal
                                                                    (1)      (2)      (3)        (5)          (4)

Subcomponent 1
Water and Sewerage Works
1.1.  Sewage interception treatment and final disposal           21.128     62.219  67.583      320%      46.454
1.2.  Rehabilitation of existing sewage system                   34.944     10.804  12.408      36%       -22.536
1.3.  Interception and pumping of the Guaravituba and Itupu
      flows                                                       1.617     0.000    0.000       0%       -1.617

1.4.  Automation and control of sewage pumping                    0.849     0.300    0.716      84%       -0.133
1.5.  Rehabilitation and improvement of the "Teodoro Augusto
      Ramos" water treatment plant                                2.788     2.901    6.078      218%       3.290

Subtotal                                                         61.326     76.224  86.784      142%      25.459
Subcomponent 2
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
2.1.  Rehabilitation of existing systems cleaning equipment       7.114     8.073    2.838      40%       -4.276

2.2.  Cleaning Equipment                                          1.167     2.000    2.073      178%       0.906
Subtotal                                                          8.281     10.073   4.911      59%       -3.370
Subcomponent 3
Urban Rehabilitation-
3.1.  São Paulo Municipality                                     42.441     65.133  130.396     307%      87.954
3.2.  Embu Municipality                                           6.494     16.714  10.872      167%       4.379
3.3.  Itapecerica da Serra Municipality                           6.521     17.421   9.202      141%       2.681
3.4.  Embu-Guaçu Municipality                                     3.244     4.706    2.390      74%       -0.854
3.5.  Slum Resettlement                                          38.925     45.299  47.354      122%       8.430
Subtotal                                                         97.625    149.273  200.214     205%      102.590
Subcomponent 4
Environmental protection
4.1.  Reforestry                                                  5.243     4.824    5.286      101%       0.043
4.2.  Parks and recovery of Mining areas                         22.129     17.234  14.438      65%       -7.691
4.3.  Technical Assistance for Agricultural activities, forestry
      and fisheries                                               3.868     3.785    2.071      54%       -1.797

Subtotal                                                         31.240     25.843  21.796      70%       -9.445
Subcomponent 5
River Basin Management
5.1.  Studies and basic data collection                           5.050     6.052    7.621      151%       2.571
5.2.  Training and Technical Assistance                           3.815     3.541    1.266      33%       -2.549
5.3.  Operations and management                                   9.559     6.296    1.899      20%       -7.661
5.4.  Operational Equipment                                       2.069     2.392    1.654      80%       -0.415
5.5.  Project Management (UGP-SP)                                 7.220     10.044  12.450      172%       5.230
Subtotal                                                         27.713     28.325  24.890      90%       -2.823
Total                                                            226.184   289.738  338.595     150%      112.411

Physical Contingency                                              9.821      --       --                     --
Price Contingencies                                              25.927      --       --                     --
Total Project Cost                                               261.932   289.738  338.595     129%      76.663




                                                                          - 65 -

B. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US $ million)

                                               Appraisal Estimates

     Project Element            ICB                   NCB                Other       Total
Civil Work                    111.500      52%       102.100      48%      --        213.600
World Bank Financing           49.000                38.000                --        87.000

Equipment                      20.700      95%        1.000       5%       --        21.700
World Bank Financing           14.000                   --                 --        14.000

Engineering and Technical
Assistance                       --                     --               26.600      26.600
World Bank Financing             --                     --               18.000      18.000

Total                         132.200                103.100             26.600      261.900
            World Bank         63.000                38.000              18.000      119.000




                                                     Actual

     Project Element            ICB                   NCB                Other       Total
Civil Work                    196.529      65%       105.330      35%  --      --    301.256
World Bank Financed            62.601                27.272            --      --    89.612

Equipment                      3.064       82%        0.684       18%  --      --     3.745
World Bank Financed            1.814                  0.189            --      --     2.003

Engineering and Technical
Assistance                  --       --            --       --           32.990      33.594
World Bank Financed         --       --            --       --           27.036      27.297

Total                         199.594                106.015             32.990      338.595
            World Bank         64.415                27.462              27.036      118.912


Total amount withdrawn from Loan Account was US$ 119.000.00,00 and
the total amount deposited in the Special Account was US$ 118.912.171,29




                                                  - 66 -

C. Financing by Executing Agency and World Bank (US $ million)

                                         Appraisal Estimate

Entity                      Cost                     Contingencies                 Total
                                            Physical             Financial

WORLD BANK                103.138  45.6%     4.242    43.2%       11.620 44.8%   119.000 45.4%
GESP(1)                    58.673  25.9%     2.489    25.3%        6.899 26.6%    68.061 26.0%
PMSP                       23.831  10.5%     1.178    12.0%        3.065 11.8%    28.074 10.7%
SABESP                     34.628  15.3%     1.621    16.5%        3.552 13.7%    39.801 15.2%
ELETROPAULO(2)              5.914   2.6%     0.295     3.0%        0.788  3.0%     6.997  2.7%

Total                     226.184  100%      9.825    100%        25.924  100%   261.933 100%



                                             Actual

Entity                       Cost                    Contingencies                 Total
                                            Physical             Financial

WORLD BANK                118.912  35.1%        --       --          --     --   118.912 35.1%
GESP(2)                    64.395  19.0%        --       --          --     --    64.395 19.0%
PMSP                      109.285  32.3%        --       --          --     --   109.285 32.3%
SABESP                     46.003  13.6%        --       --          --     --    46.003 13.6%
ELETROPAULO(3)              0.000   0.0%        --       --          --     --     0.000  0.0%

Total                     338.595  100%      0.000      0%         0.000    0%   338.595 100%


(1)Includes UGP, CDHU and SMA
(2)ELETROPAULO did not participate




                                             - 67 -

D. Total Expenditures: Appraisal Estimate and Actual Results (US$ million)

      Description               1,992       1,993   1,994    1,995    1,996   1,997   1,998   1,999     2,000

Appraisal Estimate             15.373     73.446  157.788  218.884   249.867 261.935     --      --        --

Mid term Review                 0.000       0.752   3.134   18.602   135.333 222.382 289.736     --        --

Amendment 1                     0.000       0.752   3.134   18.380    71.285 170.933 284.707 336.016
April 24, 1994
Amendment 2                     0.000       0.752   3.134   18.380    71.285 170.933 247.803 297.750  336.016
June 30, 1999
Actual                          0.000       0.752   3.134   18.380    71.285 170.933 247.803 292.460  338.595

Percentage(1)                       --       1.0%   2.0%      8.4%    28.5%   65.3%   94.6%  111.7%    129.3%
Percentage(2)                       --    100.0%  100.0%     98.8%    52.7%   76.9%   85.5%  100.9%    116.9%
Percentage(3)                       --    100.0%  100.0%    100.0%    100.0% 100.0%   87.0%   87.0%    100.8%
Percentage(4)                       --    100.0%  100.0%    100.0%    100.0% 100.0%  100.0%   98.2%    100.8%



(1) Actual in relation to forecast in Appraisal.
(2) Actual in relation to MTR
(3) Actual in relation to Amendment 1
(4) Actual in relation to Amendment 2.


E. World Bank Disbursements: Estimates and Actual (US$ million)

      Description               1,992       1,993   1,994    1,995    1,996   1,997   1,998   1,999   2,000(5)

Appraisal Estimate              0.000     20.500  52.400    84.600   107.800 119.000     --      --        --

Mid term Review                 0.000       0.639   2.584   12.505    67.798 112.090 119.000     --        --

Amendment 1                     0.000       0.639   2.584   11.653    42.536 71.661  106.610 119.000       --
April 24, 1994
Amendment 2                     0.000       0.639   2.584   11.653    42.536 71.661  94.480  114.571  119.000
June 30, 1999
Actual                          0.000       0.639   2.584   11.653    42.536 71.661  94.480  110.499  118.912

Percentage(1)                       --       3.1%   4.9%    13.8%     39.5%   60.2%   79.4%   92.9%    99.9%
Percentage(2)                       --    100.0%  100.0%    93.2%     62.7%   63.9%   79.4%   92.9%    99.9%
Percentage(3)                       --    100.0%  100.0%   100.0%    100.0%  100.0%   88.6%   92.9%    99.9%
Percentage(4)                       --    100.0%  100.0%   100.0%    100.0%  100.0%  100.0%   96.4%    99.9%


(1) Actual in relation to forecast in Appraisal.
(2) Actual in relation to MTR
(3) Actual in relation to Amendment 1
(4) Actual in relation to Amendment 2
(5) Total amount withdrawn from Loan Account was US$ 119.000.00,00 and
  total amount deposited in the Special Account was US$ 118.912.171,29




                                                           - 68 -

F. Allocation of Resources / Disbursements (US$ million)

                             Appraisal Estiamte            Amendment           Amendment        Actual
     Description
                                                           April 24, 1994      June 30, 1999   Estimate(2)

1(a) Civil Work 47%    (1)           96.000                   86.000             88.000         89.874
1(b) Civil Work 100%                  0.000                   10.000              0.000          0.000
 2   Equipment                        5.000                    5.000              2.500          2.003
 3   Consulting                      18.000                   18.000             28.500         27.036

         Total                       119.000                 119.000             119.000        118.912


     (1) Up to 31/12/95, 47% was disbursed ;
     60% was disbursed from 01/01/96 a 31/12/96;
     42% was disbursed from 01/01/97a 31/12/97
     70% was disbursed from 01/01/99 onwards
     (2)Total amount withdrawn from Loan Account was US$ 119.000.00,00 and
     the total amount deposited in the Special Account was US$ 118.912.171,29




                                                         - 69 -

2.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT

A. Project Cost by Component (US $ million)
          Sub-Component                                                Executing Agency    Base Cost       Actual        % of Appraisal  Difference

 I          Program Coordination                                                               2,035.65         9,002.71   #DIV/0!
                                                                                                                            442%             6,967.06
                                                                                                                                                  -
    PGP-01  Technical Assistance and Management                         CCPG/SEPL              2,035.65         9,002.71    442%             6,967.06
II          Environmental Management at Basin Scale                                           19,451.34        11,676.96   #DIV/0!
                                                                                                                             60%            (7,774.38)
                                                                                                                                                  -
   1        Technical Assistance and Training                                                 19,451.34        11,676.96     60%            (7,774.38)
    PEB-01  Technical Assistance and Training                         COMEC/IPARDES            1,848.71             -         0%            (1,848.71)
   2        Planning
    PEB-02  Institutional Proposal Alto Iguacu Basin                  CCPG/SEPL/AGHIR          1,314.01         2,037.24    155%               723.23
    PEB-03  Information Systems                                       COMEC/SUDERHSA           1,533.16         2,265.18    148%               732.02
    PEB-04  Drainage Master Plan                                        SUDERHSA               1,030.07          635.90      62%              (394.17)
    PEB-05  Definition of Economic Activities in the Basin                COMEC                1,113.32             -         0%            (1,113.32)
    PEB-06  Land Use Planning and Institutional Organization              COMEC                1,084.15          712.96      66%              (371.19)
    PEB-07  Engineering Studies of Future Water Sources               COMEC/SUDHERSA           1,653.36         1,080.47     65%              (572.89)
   3        Supervision and Monitoring
    PEB-08  Supervision and Monitoring                                  SUDERHSA               5,018.91         4,241.60     85%            (5,018.91)
   4        Environmental Education
    PEB-09  Environmental Education                                                            4,099.75          572.52      14%            (3,527.23)
    PEB-10  Eco-Museum development-Institutional Modernization          SUDHERSA                755.90           131.10      17%              (624.80)

III         Water Source Protection and Development                                           58,215.99        66,337.44    114%            (8,121.45)

   1        Water Sources
    PMA-01  IRAI River Reservoir and channel                             SANEPAR              25,331.09        22,609.46     89%            (2,721.63)
   2        Land Management
    PMA-02  Rural Areas                                                   EMATER               1,336.76          644.41      48%              (692.35)
    PMA-03  Urban Areas                                                   COMEC               11,755.55        22,868.01    195%           11,112.46
   3        Specific Infrastructure Problems
    PMA-04  Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site   COMEC/SUDERHSA            533.17           560.05     105%                26.88
    PMA-05  Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                       DER                 800.18           752.70      94%               (47.48)
   4        Forestry
    PMA-06  Degraded River Areas                                           ITCF                1,756.87         1,628.02     93%              (128.85)
                                                                                                                                                  -
    PMA-07  Recreational Areas                                              PMC               15,284.15        16,241.27    106%               957.12

    PMA-08  PASSAUNA Park                                                 COMEC                1,418.22         1,033.52   #DIV/0!
                                                                                                                             73%              (384.70)
                                                                                                                                                  -
IV          Alto River Basin Environmental Rehabilitation                                    113,321.53       167,516.74    148%           54,195.21

   1        Flood Control
    PRA-01  Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park                            SUCEAM              20,137.14        39,484.08    196%           19,346.94
    PRA-02  Urban drainage                                                  PMC               21,822.03        18,504.38     85%            (3,317.65)
   2        Sanitary Sewage                                .                                                                                      -
    PRA-03  Sanitary Sewage                                              SANEPAR              54,839.83       104,902.18    191%           50,062.35
   3        Solid Waste                                                                                                                           -
    PRA-04  Urban Waste                                                   SUCEAM               8,775.45         2,742.53     31%            (6,032.92)
    PRA-05  Final Hospital Waste Disposal                                   PMC                7,747.08         1,833.56   #DIV/0!
                                                                                                                             24%            0.00
                                                                                                                                            (5,913.52)

            Base COST                                                                        193,024.51
            Physical Contingencies (5%)                                                        9,651.23


            Total Cost at December 1991 Prices                                               201,673.54
            Price Contingencies (3.9% AA)                                                     21,499.46

            TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                               223,173.00       254,533.85    114%         31,360.85




                                                                         - 70 -

B. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (US $ million)

                                                       AppraisalEstimates

             ProjectElement                        ICB                   NCB                  Other     Total
           1          Civil Work                  102.420                70.640                  --     173.060
                             WorldBank            48.140                 33.200                  --     81.340

           2          Goods                       14.200                 13.200                  --     27.400
                             WorldBank             9.850                 6.200                   --     16.050

                      Engineering    and
                      Technical
           3          Assistance                     --                    --                 22.720    22.720
                             WorldBank               --                    --                 19.610    19.610
Total                                             116.620                83.840               22.720    223.173
                            WorldBank             57.990                 39.400               19.610    117.000




                                                              Actual

             ProjectElement                        ICB                   NCB                  Other     Total
           1          Civil Work                  104.635                62.241                4.153    171.029
                             WorldBank            51.724                 30.728                1.952    84.404
           2          Goods                        8.183                 0.297                 0.619    9.099
                             WorldBank             5.350                 0.140                 0.619    6.168
                      Engineering    and
                      Technical
           3          Assistance                  18.655                 4.796                 1.515    24.966
                             WorldBank            15.823                 4.076                 1.272    21.327
Start up Expenditure                                                                                    0.173
SpecialAccount                                                                                          0.006
Total                                             131.473                67.334                6.287      205.094 ***
                            WorldBank             72.897                 34.944                3.843    112.066


***Total Amount of Project $254.533 includes $49.539.58 from Special Accounts and Expropiation




                                                             - 71 -

C. Financing and Disbursements

                            Allocation of Resources / Disbursements (US$ million)

                                Appraisal Estimate    Mid Term Review     Amendment     Amendment
     Project Element
                                                       June 12 1996       May 27 1998     August 10 2000

       Civil Work                    81.000                   90.000          87.000                 83.510
       Civil Work                    16.400                    9.000          6.000                   6.040
       Consulting                    19.600                   18.000          16.000                 19.450
          Total                      117.000                 117.000         109.000                109.000



                                  Amendment           Amendment          Amendment           Actual
     Project Element
                            December 7 2000           Feruary 6 2002     October 3 2002

       Civil Work                    83.510                   84.900          84.900                 84.399
       Civil Work                      6.930                   6.700          6.700                   6.168
       Consulting                    24.560                   23.400          23.150                 21.327
       Start-up Expenditure                                                   0.250                   0.173
       Special Account                                                                                0.005
          Total                      115.000                 115.000        115.000                 112.063




                                                  - 72 -

2.3 FEDERAL COMPONENT

A. Project Cost by Component (US $ million)

                                               Appraisal              %       of
                                                              Actual  Appraisal
                   Component                   Estimate
                                               Appraisal Estimate     disbursed
  1 Piracicaba-Capivari e Jundaí (Sao Paulo)          1.60        1.07     67%
  2 Itajai                                            1.60        0.00      0%
  3 Mundau- Parnaíba                                  1.20        0.00      0%
  4 Paraiba do Sul- Sao Paulo                         0.00        0.77     N/A
  5 Paraiba do Sul- Rio de Janeiro                    0.00        1.49     N/A
  6 Capibaibe, Beberibe, Jaboatao (Recife)            1.60        1.10     69%
  7 Alto Subae e Baixo Paraguacu (Bahia)              0.00        0.47     N/A
  8 Manaus                                            1.20        0.00      0%
    Unidad de Gerenciamiento do
  9 Componente Nacional - UGCN                        0.00        0.94     N/A
10 Unallocated                                        1.80        0.00      0%
                   TOTAL                              9.00        5.84     65%




B. Financing by Component (US $ million)


                Description                        Amount Disbursed

1            Goods                                       36,465.70
2-A          CS - Except PMU                           4,867,813.39
2-B          CS - For the PMU                           940,747.71
SA-A         S/A- US$700.000 -BCO                          209.13

       TOTAL                                           5,845,235.93




                                            - 73 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

3.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT
Economic-Financial Viability and Costs Recovery Analysis            This section covers the results
of the ex-post economic-financial analysis of the Guarapiranga Program (1991 - 2001),
comparing the original project components with material outcomes. It also outlines economic and
financial cost/benefits as well as opportunity costs.

The Guarapiranga Program was divided into five sub-components. In accordance with the Staff
Appraisal Report, drawn up by the World Bank prior to the inception of the Program in 1992. The
following were responsible for carrying out the works, projects and interventions within the
context of the Guarapiranga Program:

- Sao Paulo State Water Supply and Sanitation Company-SABESP;
- Sao Paulo State Secretariat for the Environment-SMA;
- Sao Paulo State Housing and Urban Development Company-CDHU;
- São Paulo Municipality;
- Program Management Unit-UGP.

Material outcomes        The first analysis consisted of a comparison between the interventions
projected before inception of the Program and the actual accomplishments by the above
executors. The Program exceeded the targets projected in the initial studies, principally with
regard to enlargement of the wastewater systems in the communities.

As for slum urbanization and relocation projects, a key policy objective of the Program was to
deploy measures likely to cause least negative impact on the population. Priority was therefore
placed on the type of urban rehabilitation and infrastructure activities which would avoid
wholesale relocation of families.

The number of new wastewater systems built exceeded that initially planned. This resulted from a
reassessment at the outset of the Program of new target areas potentially beneficial to the river
basin waste water system.

Program Costs      Cost data made available by the UGP were assembled according to individual
Program sub-components and year of disbursement. The account was drawn up to reflect the Staff
Appraisal Report format.

For the purpose of our analysis, the total cost of the Program was (in US$ thousands) : US$
338.595 whereas costs originally budgeted amounted to US$ 261.932

The discrepancy between the above figures arises basically from the value of projected
investments and money spent on additional projects executed by the Municipality of Sao Paulo
(PMSP). The PMSP made a larger financial counterpart contribution than originally foreseen in
the Loan Agreement, for the following reasons: (i) the PMSP chose to increase the volume of
works over that originally planned and (ii) at the time of drawing up the projects for the
intervention areas, especially slum-related projects, the PMSP introduced a number of


                                                 - 74 -

town-planning initiatives with wider reach and social impact than originally projected.

Amendments to the costs of sub-components can also be observed. Such costs were realigned as
working details of the projects developed. The modifications were mainly due to the following
factors:

- Brazilian exchange policies and the frequent fluctuations in the price of the US dollar over the
duration of the Program;
- executing projects over and above those planned in the initial stages of the Program, in particular
those related to wastewater systems and slum urbanization;
- the composition of the unit costs initially earmarked for the works;
- the prices submitted by tenderers for works and services contracts at the time of the bidding
process frequently fell short of the prices estimated by the executors in the light of market
circumstances at the time.

Analysis of Cost Recovery         For the Cost Recovery analysis, each of the executors was
evaluated separately on the basis of activities implemented by each under the Program. Estimates
were also made of the costs and financial benefits arising from new situations.

The cost recovery figures calculated for individual executors provided the basis for an assessment
of the cost-benefit ratio of the Program overall, as illustrated in the following table (in US$
thousands):

 Item         Sub-component                          Cost         Benefit      C/B
 I            Water and sewage systems                $ 34.836,61 $ 22.182,98      0.64
 II           Collection and disposal of urban solid       -            -           -
              waste
III           Urban rehabilitation                    $ 70.329,37 $ 28.508,46      0.41
IV            Environmental protection                $ 12.952,23  $ 7.660,44      0.59
 V            Management of the River Basin +         $ 15.996,37 $ 17.938,82      1.12
              Solid Waste
 TOTAL                                                $ 134.114,58 $ 76.290,70     0.57
 BASE
 COST



The Cost/Benefit for the Water and Sewage Systems Component (0.64), as seen above, is less
than the value estimated before the Program began. The Staff Appraisal Report put the ratio at
1.16. This difference reflects precisely the difference between the anticipated schedule and that
actually executed. When the Program was being prepared, the works related to the wastewater
system were programmed to enable wastewater connections to be constructed and brought into
operation at the same time as the wastewater elevator plants, vacuum pressure sewer lines and
interceptors. According to this model, the objective was to avoid the problem of dry networks and
unauthorised clandestine connections. Furthermore, it was assessed that the process of
decontamination of the water in the dam would yield results over the short term.




                                                   - 75 -

Finally, it was expected that this modality would optimise the receipts arising from
sewage/wastewater charges. Inward financial flows forecast at the time that the Program was
being prepared made allowances for receipts approximately to match outgoing investment costs.
However, this did not materialise in practice. The operationalisation of the system has only been
effected over the last few years, generating the discrepancy between investment and income
reflected in the Cost/Benefit ratio.

The Urban Rehabilitation Component 0.41 was also less than the value presented in the Appraisal
0.58 again reflecting the particular requirements of the PMSP. The Environmental Protection
Component 0.59 exceeded the initial estimate of 0.39. The works related to Parque 9 de julio
were not executed, which resulted in cost savings, since the bulk of earmarked resources was to
be targeted on this park. In the ensuing ex-post analysis, the anticipated number of visitors to the
parks fell by one half.

The costs and benefits of the Solid Waste and Basin Management components were included in
the same account since they were effectively linked to the same executor (UGP). The Cost/Benefit
ratio for these components was satisfactory 1.12 The receipts from charging for water use rights
deserve special mention. A bill is presently under discussion in this respect in the São Paulo State
Legislature.

The Program overall achieved a recovery ratio of 0.57, similar to that presented in the Appraisal
0.59 in the worst hypothesis and 0.62 in the optimistic hypothesis.

Economic Analysis        For the economic analysis of the Program, market costs were converted
into social costs, and the segments referring to taxes and subsidies disaggregated. Project costs
were split into direct/indirect investment costs and fixed/variable maintenance costs. Direct costs
are represented by materials, labour, machinery, equipment and BDI (Total Indirect Costs). The
latter are considered to be costs related to inter alia studies, projects, management costs and
contingencies. Operational fixed costs are represented by personnel, materials and oursourced
services, while the variable costs are represented mainly by materials.

The conversion percentages of the above costs were provided by SABESP, and the tax-related
figures were those defined by law. In summary, the following conversion percentages were
adopted:

Works:

- Materials: 38.63%;
- Labour costs: 32.80%;
- BDI (Total Indirect Costs) : 28.57%.




                                                 - 76 -

Materials, Machines, Equipment and Installations:

- Inputs: 71.43%;
- BDI: 28.57%.

Taxes and Social Charges:

- Tax on Industrialized Products (IPI): calculated for machines and equipment at an average of
10%;
- Circulation of Goods and Services Tax (ICMS): an average of 17% (as applied in São Paulo
since 1992);
- Payroll-related "social" contributions: the sum of the percentages was calculated as amounting
to 36.4% of labour costs.
- Tax on BDI: 71.59% (inputs) and 28.41% (taxes), with the above payroll-related costs already
accounted for.

The social cost are an estimate of the average value of total Program components - 69.11%
(representing inputs) and 30.89% (taxes). For the economic assessment evaluation, the present net
efficiency cost values were taken into consideration on the basis of the present net values of the
estimated benefits.

For the estimate of benefits, the values were obtained on the basis of users' "Willingness to Pay"
estimated by employing contingent valuation methodology, identical to the values used for the
exercise in the Staff Appraisal Report. The Willingness to Pay survey (WTP) endeavours to
illustrate the level of commitment by members of society to improvements over a range of
indicators, together with people's willingness to apportion part of their incomes in order to gain
benefit from such improvements. The table below shows the values obtained (referring to the
various sub-components) from the WTP survey in the area of the Program.

Sub-component               Sample               Population            WTP (US$/fam. / month)
Urban rehabilitation               1.500                521.889                      2.97
Parks                               500                     -                        9.87
Sewers                              500                 109.956                      26.79

For the sewer/wastewater sub-component, consumers' Willingness to Pay greatly exceeds the
average water and sewage tariff charges currently paid ­ around US$ 14.40 per family per month.


This represents the view of the population regarding other benefits not directly linked to the
survey such as waterborne diseases, insect infestations, public health costs etc - all of which
decrease as collection and treatment of waste water increases.

For the calculation of economic benefits, these values were compared with the number of families
benefited by each of the components of the Guarapiranga Program, during the operation of the
project. The Current Net Value of the benefits generated was then used for assessing the



                                                - 77 -

Cost/Benefit ratio. For this particular assessment, non-payment of the charges was not considered
as a relevant factor for three reasons:

- in the questionnaires, especially that concerning wastewater, the costs suggested to DAP were
regarded by householders as part of the monthly water bill;
- the low income population generally continues to pay water bills for fear of having the supply
cut off;
- a bias existed in the response given to DAP: if the interviewee/householder showed `Willingness
to Pay', the chance of failing to pay own water bills was remote.

The following summarises the assessment:

Item Sub-component                                            Cost               Benefit          C/B
I      Water and sewage systems                                 $24.044.228,10 $43.196.735,90 1.80
II     Collection and disposal of urban solid waste                    -                  -        -
III    Urban rehabilitation                                     $48.541.328,96 $45.023.590,11 0.93
IV     Environmental protection                                 $8.939.627,65      $9.530.882,95 1.07
  V Management of the River Basin + Solid Waste                        -                  -        -

The values of the Staff Appraisal Report for the Cost/Benefit ratio of the water and sewage, urban
rehabilitation and environmental protection components were, respectively, 1.26, 1.18 and 1.03.
This evaluation does not take into account the benefits generated by the components related to
macro and micro drainage, such as channelling streams, construction of galleries, street gutters
etc. on account of the fact that rates of return associated with the drainage interventions is zero
(ie: direct recovery mechanisms for the costs associated with these items are not feasible). The
economic perception of these interventions is effectively reflected in the WTP in terms of urban
rehabilitation overall. In the public's mind, real benefits are generally related to visible public
urban improvement works (including drainage).

A margin of error exists associated with the application of the contingent evaluation methodology
to interventions where the rate of return is zero, as in the case of drainage. It is therefore
suggested that when this type of methodology is next applied for evaluation of levels of economic
recovery of programs and projects, other methods should be considered.

Seroa (1998)1 has done costings of        the various methods: marginal productivity; contingent
evaluation; journey costs; hedonic prices ; avoidable and opportunity costs.

                                    2
Munasinghe and McNeely (1995) present a method for determining the economic value of use
and non-use of environmental assets and a typology of techniques that allow the value to be
calculated, in accordance with the characteristics of the markets to which each technique refers:
real markets (effects on production; effects on health; defensive or preventive costs; replacement
costs; and shadow prices) ; implicit markets (journey costs; substitute goods; asset values; pay
differentials); and `built' markets.




                                                - 78 -

In conclusion, a further key indicator of the economic benefits arising from the Guarapiranga
Program was the price movements registered in the local property market in the intervention area.
While the above-mentioned Cost Recovery mechanism already takes into account the income
derived by the municipalities from expanded collection of IPTU (property taxes), the increasing
value of private real estate in the area confers on the residents a undisputed benefit effectively
stemming from Program interventions. The table below presents a calculation of the perceived
long-term (ie: up to 2025) economic benefit experienced by each property-owning family in the
intervention area.


          Item               Unit                              Municipalities
                                       Sao PauloEmbu, Embu-Guaçu and              Itapecerica da Serra)
Increase in market        $US                        2.655.383.489,231.090.720.919,76
selling price
Increase in IPTU          $US                            13.759.560,495.45.604,16
(Local Property Tax)
Net "social"benefit       $US                       2.641.623.928,741.085.267.315,16
Total dwellings (New      Un                                  270.867489.524
and existing)
Benefit for each family   $US/fam                            9.752,482.216,99



To calculate the benefit accruing to each family, the cash flow arising from increases in the
notional market price of housing up to the year 2025 was taken into account. This figure was then
converted to present net value with a discount equivalent to 12%. The number of dwelling units
benefited was then evaluated (covering existing as well as units built under the aegis of the
Program). An appropriate economic value per family was finally obtained on the basis of
increased real estate prices resulting from the Guarapiranga Program.

Opportunity Costs       Finally, an estimate of opportunity costs was obtained by comparing the
investments made under the Guarapiranga Program and the increase in the water supply flow
using the `non-intervention' hypothesis (ie: without the Program) and the assumed implementation
of a new producing system. It was considered that if the activities/interventions had not taken
place the headwaters would become unrecoverable within a short period of time and the flow
supplied by the producer system would be lost.

This calculation reflected the marginal cost of the expansion of water systems in the RMSP, as
calculated by SABESP in the early 1990's as being 0.267US$ per m3 - including costs of
impoundment and delivery of raw water and treatment and delivery of treated water, plus the
marginal cost of the Guarapiranga System (amounting to 0.073 US$/m3, according to separate
calculations).
The costs of a new producer system were compared with the costs of the Guarapiranga Program,
plus its own marginal cost. The picture obtained from the exercise is basically that a new
producing system would entail costs 43% higher than the existing alternative (ie: retaining the



                                                - 79 -

reservoir), on the basis of the ratio between the costs of the Program and the hypothesis put
forward, assuming a discount of 12%.




1. SEROA DA MOTTA, Ronaldo. Manual para valorização de recursos ambientais (Manual for assessing the value
of environmental resources. Ministry of the Environment, Renewable Resources and Legal Amazonia.: Brasilia,
1998.
2. MUNASINGHE, Mohan; McNELLY, Jeffrey. Key concepts and terminology for sustainable development. In
MUNASINGHE, Mohan; SEARER, Walter (Ed.). Defining and measuring sustainability: the biogeophysical
foundations. United Nations University and World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1995.




                                                   - 80 -

A. Financial Results

                                Appraisal Estimate



Component                     Cost            Benefit   B/C      IRR

Water and Sewerage Service    64,178          74,217     1.16    14.4%
Urban Rehabilitation          99,020          57,094     0.58    8.4%
Environmental Protection      68,086          26,384     0.39    11.2%
River Basin Management        33,902          6,246      0.18    8.8%
TOTAL                         265,186         163,941    0.62    8.3%



                                      Actual



Component                     Cost            Benefit   B/C      IRR
Water and Sewerage Service    34,836          22,183     0.64    8.2%
Urban Rehabilitation          70,329          28,508     0.41    2.4%
Environmental Protection      12,952          7,660      0.59    6.9%
River Basin Management        15,996          17,939     1.12    14.5%
TOTAL                         134,114         76,291     0.57    5.9%




                                  - 81 -

       B. Economic Results

                                 Appraisal Estimate


Component                      Cost            Benefit   B/C      IRR
Water and Sewerage Service     49,417          62,265     1.26    16.3%
Urban Rehabilitation          76,245.40        89,970     1.18    8.9%
Environmental Protection      52,426.22        53,999     1.03    19.7%
River Basin Management        26,104.54         N/A       N/A      N/A

TOTAL                         204,193          206,234    1.01    17.3%


                                       Actual

Component                      Cost            Benefit   B/C      IRR
Water and Sewerage Service     24,044          43,197     1.80    22.1%
Urban Rehabilitation           48,541          45,024     0.93    10.2%
Environmental Protection       8,939           9,531      1.07    12.8%
River Basin Management          N/A             N/A       N/A      N/A
TOTAL                          81,525          97,751     1.20    15.7%




                                   - 82 -

3.2 IGUACU COMPONENT
Objective     To assess the economic and financial performance of the Environmental Sanitation
Program of the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (PROSAM) on the basis of the verified costs of
Program implementation, together with the resulting economic and financial benefits, by
employing wherever possible the same conceptual bases as those used at the time that the viability
of the Program was being evaluated at the negotiating stage (1991).

Premises     The analysis of the economic and financial performance of the Program implemented
in the context of PROSAM was carried out using, as far as possible, the same analytical viability
criteria and hypotheses as those employed when the Program components were first proposed in
1991.

However, as far as calculation of the benefits of the four subprograms comprising PROSAM are
concerned, it was decided not to quantify Subprogram I (`Management') or Subprogram II (`
Structuring the basis for environmental resources management'), given that these two
subprograms were essentially aimed at institutional development of the public sector and on
account of the close linkage between their implementation and the technical viability of the
remaining initiatives. The two subprograms are therefore only mentioned in the analysis of the
overall programme from the cost point of view.

Subprograms III (`Protection and use of the supply headwaters') and IV (Environmental
recovery of the Alto Iguaçu') present clear and identifiable economic and financial benefits. In the
case of these two subprograms, specific criteria were taken into account for the detailed analysis
of each of the subprojects in the context of allocating a benefit assessment.

The financial benefits identified arise from charging tariffs and fees, clearly indicated on a
component-by-component basis. As for the economic benefits, these were assessed basically
according to the following criteria: (i) opportunity costs avoided; (ii) movements in property
prices as an objective indication of people's willingness to pay for environmental improvements
and a better quality of life, and (iii) willingness to pay for environmental improvements evaluated
on the basis of an a priori decision by society to achieve environmental standards within the
context of legal provisions (eg: with respect to water bodies). The criteria were adopted on the
basis of suitability for the type of undertakings proposed and in the light of appropriate available
information. Utilization of this type of criteria avoids double accounting (very frequently used in
other methods).

It was decided that the methodology employed in 1991 (assessment of the viability of the
Program) for quantifying the benefits arising from the PRA 03 programme (Wastewater
Sanitation) was not appropriate (re: increased price of riverine properties), and failed to indicate
people's real willingness to pay for an improvement in the water quality of the River Iguaçu. A
new methodology was therefore adopted. This new approach is based on the aggregate
assessment of society regarding willingness to pay for `intervention activities' which would
improve water quality. The approach uses as its basic hypothesis the premise that since the River
Iguaçu is classified in category II as far as water quality is concerned (CONAMA Resolution



                                                  - 83 -

20/86) - given that government bodies are obliged to conform to this standard. A priori, it could
be averred that by achieving Class II there would be little concern to invest further in the
decontamination of the River Iguaçu and therefore at Class II level the cost-benefit limit would be
equal to I. This methodology is described in the text entititled Analysis of the Benefit of Water
Decontamination as an Instrument for Decision-making in Water Resources Management: A
study of the case of the Basin of the Alto Iguaçu.

Moreover, it is worthwhile noting that a conservative stance was adopted regarding the estimate
of the benefits arising from the programs under PROSAM and in case of              doubt the least
favourable interpretation was always put on the value of a given benefit. It was assumed that the
operating costs used were the same as those employed when the viability of the intervention
proposals was assessed in 1991.

Criteria of Economic Assessment/Calculation Records The table below summarizes the
`assessment of economic benefit' criteria used in the study (details of calculation records are
provided in Table 2).




                                               - 84 -

Table I: Summary of criteria used in assessment of economic benefit

Subproject                            Criteria for assessing economic benefit
PMA-01     Reservoir and deviation    Opportunity Cost avoided by introducing an alternative solution
           channel of River Iraí      for supplying water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba

PMA-02     Occupation     and   pro-  Opportunity Cost avoided from loss of current capacity to
           Conservation    Use    of  supply water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (Benefits
           Agricultural Land          attributed proportionately - 2.8% - to the costs of the
                                      subproject).
PMA-03     Urban Infrastructure and   Opportunity Cost avoided from loss of the current capacity to
           Territorial Re-ordering in supply water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (Benefits
           the Headwaters Areas       attributed proportionately - 93.8% - to the costs of the
                                      subproject).
PMA-04     Treatment and Disposal     Opportunity Cost avoided from loss of the current capacity to
           of Effluents from the      supply water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (Benefits
           Lamenha          Pequena   attributed proportionately - 2.4% - to the costs of the
           `Lixão'                    subproject).
PMA-05     Prevention     of    Road  Opportunity Cost avoided from loss of the current capacity to
           Accidents resulting from   supply water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (Benefits
           dangerous loads -          attributed proportionately ­ 3.0% - to the costs of the
                                      subproject).
PMA-06     Forestry Recovery and      Opportunity Cost avoided from loss of the current capacity to
           Recuperation           of  supply water to the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (Benefits
           Degraded areas of the      attributed proportionately ­ 7.0% - to the costs of the
           Alto Iguaçu                subproject).
PMA-07     Green Areas                Opportunity     Cost   avoided   resulting  from   maintenance
                                      (cleaning and draining rivers), by recovery of the ciliary cover
                                      and the creation of linear parks.
PMA-08     Passaúna Environmental     Increased property prices in the areas near to the Passaúna
           Park                       Environmental Park
PRA- 01    Park/ Flood Control of     Increased property prices in the basin of the River Iguaçu,
           the Alto Iguaçu            control of floods and of the area of the Iguaçu Park built on the
                                      plain reserved for floodwaters from the Iguaçu (2/3 earmarked
                                      for this subproject)
PRA-02     Urban Drainage             - Increased property prices in the areas benefiting from urban
                                      drainage works
PRA-03     Wastewater Sanitation      Benefit quantified on the basis of the aggregate assessment of
                                      society regarding its willingness to pay for intervention
                                      activities to improve water quality
PRA-04     Urban      Solid   Waste   - No economic benefit. Program not
           implemented
PRA-05     Disposal    of   Hospital  No economic benefit. Program not implemented
           Waste




                                                  - 85 -

Subproject    Calculation Record
PMA-01         Reservoir and deviation channel of River Iraí ­ Cost of next most
               economic solution for supplying 2m3/s (investment) of water to the
               Metropolitan Area of Curitiba on the basis of obtaining water from the
               River Açungui (Campo Largo Municipality)

              Reservoir:                        US$ 35.0 million

              Feed/Deliver (50km):              US$15.0 million

              Investment in vacuum pressure lines: US$8.0 million

              Cost of energy for pumping:          US$35.0 million
              (current cost of pumping 2m3/s to a height of 350m)

              TOTAL                                 US$ 93.0 million
              ANNUAL TOTAL                         US$11.5 million

              -For the purposes of the PROSAM C/B analysis, the benefits
              proportionate to the relationship between the costs without expropriation
              (US$ 18.58 million) and the total (US$ 22.60 million) ­ 82%, resulting
              in US$ 9.540 million /year.
PMA-02         Occupation and pro-Conservation Use of Agricultural Land
               Loss avoided of the current capacity to supply water to the Metropolitan
               Area of Curitiba (3.6m3/s) due to degraded quality, conservatively
               assessed using a unit cost equal to the cost of expansion in the River
               Açungui, the most economic alternative, following exhaustion of the
               River Iguaçu (see above item).

              Annual unit cost avoided : US$11.5 million/2 = US$5.75 million
              Annual unit cost avoided for 3.6m3/s: 3.6 /US$5.75 = US$20.7 million

              Annual benefit of US$ 574.000, as seen in table below:
              _______________________________________________________
              Subcomponent       Cost                  %          Annual Benefit
                                (US$106)                                 (US$103)
              _______________________________________________________
              PMA-02             0.64                   2.8                 574
              PMA-03            21.65                 93.8               19,426
              PMA-04             0.56                   2.4                 502
              PMA-05             0.70                   3.0                 628
              PMA-06             1.61                   7.0                1445
              ______________________________________________________
              TOTAL             25.14                   100               20.700
              ______________________________________________________



PMA-03         Urban Infrastructure and Territorial Re-ordering in the Headwaters
               Areas        Annual benefit of    US$19.426.000     (See table at item
               PMA-02)
              Treatment and Disposal of Effluents from the Lamenha Pequena `Lixão'
PMA-04        Annual benefit of US$ 502.000 (See table at item PMA-02)



                                 - 86 -

A. Financial Results


                                         Appraisal Estimate


        Component                                                Cost   Benefit   B/C     IRR

 PMA-01 IRAI River Reservoir and channel                         24.20   23.81    0.98    11.7%
 PMA-02 Rural Areas                                               1.07   0.00     0.00    0.0%
 PMA-03 Urban Areas                                              13.71   17.04    1.24    15.8%
 PMA-04 Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site   0.76   0.00     0.00    0.0%
 PMA-05 Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                 0.99   0.96     0.97    11.5%
 PMA-06 Degraded River Areas                                      1.41   0.00     0.00    0.0%
 PMA-07 Recreational Areas                                       14.48   13.63    0.94    11.2%
 PMA-08 PASSAUNA Park                                             1.71   1.22     0.71    7.6%

 PRA-01 Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park                       16.61   14.85    0.89    10.5%
 PRA-02 Urban drainage                                           21.24   6.52     0.31    0.7%
 PRA-03 Sanitary Sewage                                          54.49   63.60    1.77    14.5%
 PRA-04 Urban Waste                                              18.55   18.39    0.99    11.7%
 PRA-05 Final HospitalWaste Disposal                              8.99   11.00    1.22    14.8%
        TOTAL                                                                     0.87    11.4%


                                                Actual


        Component                                                Cost   Benefit   B/C     IRR

 PMA-01 IRAI River Reservoir and channel                         24.54   35.61    1.45    20.5%
 PMA-02 Rural Areas                                               0.46            0.00    0.0%

 PMA-03 Urban Areas                                              19.51   12.65    0.65    6.2%

 PMA-04 Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site   0.71   0.00     0.00    0.0%
 PMA-05 Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                 0.85   0.88     1.03    12.6%
 PMA-06 Degraded River Areas                                      1.10   0.00     0.00    0.0%
 PMA-07 Recreational Areas                                       13.59   13.63    1.00    12.0%
 PMA-08 PASSAUNA Park                                             1.27   0.05     0.04    0.0%


 PRA-01 Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park                       25.55   66.75    2.57    30.3%
 PRA-02 Urban drainage                                           16.09   11.62    0.72    8.2%
 PRA-03 Sanitary Sewage                                          70.52   50.74    0.72    7.6%
 PRA-04 Urban Waste                                               1.92       -        -   0.0%
 PRA-05 Final HospitalWaste Disposal                              1.52       -        -   0.0%
        TOTAL                                                                     0.98    13.1%




                                                   - 87 -

B. Economic Results

                                         Appraisal Estimate


        Component                                                Cost   Benefit   B/C     IRR


 PMA-01 IRAI River Reservoir and channel                         24.20   42.58    1.76   22.6%
 PMA-02 Rural Areas                                               1.07   7.74     7.26   63.8%
 PMA-03 Urban Areas                                              13.71  118.49    8.64   120.0%
 PMA-04 Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site   0.76   2.86     3.76   36.8%
 PMA-05 Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                 0.99   4.31     4.37   53.0%
 PMA-06 Degraded River Areas                                      1.41   9.39     6.66   52.4%
 PMA-07 Recreational Areas                                       14.48   40.11    2.77   79.7%
 PMA-08 PASSAUNA Park                                             1.71   1.81     1.06   13.2%
                                                                 58.33
 PRA-01 Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park                       16.61   80.86    4.87   114.2%
 PRA-02 Urban drainage                                           21.24   129.24   6.08   77.1%
 PRA-03 Sanitary Sewage                                          54.49   45.25    0.83   0.0%
 PRA-04 Urban Waste                                              18.55   34.34    1.85   29.8%
 PRA-05 Final HospitalWaste Disposal                              8.99   2.55     0.28   0.6%
        Total                                                                     2.65   59.0%

                                                Actual


        Component                                                Cost   Benefit   B/C     IRR


 PMA-01 IRAI River Reservoir and channel                         24.54   43.19    1.76   25.8%
 PMA-02 Rural Areas                                               0.46   3.31     7.24   63.7%
 PMA-03 Urban Areas                                              19.51  112.16    5.75   67.1%
 PMA-04 Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site   0.71   2.56     3.61   36.5%
 PMA-05 Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                 0.85   3.34     3.93   51.2%
 PMA-06 Degraded River Areas                                      1.1    7.37     6.71   52.7%
 PMA-07 Recreational Areas                                       13.59   40.11    2.95   85.0%
 PMA-08 PASSAUNA Park                                             1.27   0.48     0.38   0.0%

 PRA-01 Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park                       25.55   357.74   14     227.0%
 PRA-02 Urban drainage                                           16.09   148.02   9.2    116.0%
 PRA-03 Sanitary Sewage                                          70.52   136.41   1.93   65.8%
 PRA-04 Urban Waste                                               1.92    N/A     N/A     N/A
 PRA-05 Final HospitalWaste Disposal                              1.52    N/A     N/A     N/A
        Total                                                                     4.37   98.4%




                                                   - 88 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision
               See Annex 4.1               -   -
               for Guarapiranga
               See Annex 4.2 for
               Parana



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision                            299.26                        1,101.802
  Total                                  336.66                        1,190.476




                                                - 89 -

Annex 4.1 Bank Inputs - Site Visits Guarapiranga Component

Date                                               Participants                                      Events
     Feb 1                 1991                        N/A                                    Program Identification
      29-May to 14-Jun     1991 Emílio Rodrigues, Carl Bartone, Antônio Estache e              Preparation Mission
     15 to 25-Jul          1991 Emílio Rodrigues, Carl Bartone, Adrian Demayo e                Preparation Mission
      04 to 13-Sep         1991   Emílio Rodrigues, Antônio Estache, Eduardo                 Pre-evaluation Mission
      14-Oct to 13-Nov     1991                 Emílio Rodrigues                              Pre-Appraisal Mission
       17 to 28-Feb        1992                 Emílio Rodrigues                                Appraisal Mission
        26-May to 03-Jun   1992                 Emílio Rodrigues                                Loan Negotiation
     Jun 6                 1992                 Emílio Rodrigues                              Staff Appraisal Report
     Dec-17                1992                 Emílio Rodrigues                                Loan Agreement
       10 to 18 Feb        1993                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
                                  Emílo Rodriguez, Antônio Estache, Mary Lou
      14 to 16 Apr         1993                                                  Supervision Mission Workshop sobre Licita-ções,
                                           Veizaga e Maria Clara Mejia                   Desembolsos e         Audi-toria

      15 to 20-Apr         1993                 Maria Clara Mejia                 Technical Supervision Mission (Resettlement)


       May-17              1993   Previsto      Revisado         --      --    --         Loan Agreement Efectiveness
                                 17-Mar-93     17-May-93         --      --    --
        28/29-Jun to 07-Jul 1993       Emílio Rodriguez e Manoel Mariño                        Supervision Mission
      22-27-Sep            1993                 Emílio Rodriguez                       Supervision Mission(in Washington)

       22-26 Oct           1993    Marco Antônio Oliveira e Alceu Bittencourt
                                                                                                 (in Washington)
       29-30 Nov           1993                 Emílio Rodriguez                  Overall Supervision Mission-Technical Mission

       13-17 Dec           1993                   Carl Bartone
                                                                                    (Qualidade da Água e Resí-duos Sólidos)
       Feb 9               1994                 Emílio Rodriguez                           Overall Supervision Mission

       7-9 Mar             1994                 Maria Clara Mejia                 Technical Supervision Mission (Resettlement)

                                                                                 Technical Supervision Mission (Resíduos Sólidos)
      11 and 20 April      1994                   Carl Bartone

      02 to 05, 12 May     1994        Emílio Rodriguez e Manoel Mariño                        Supervision Mission

       June 30             1994           Ivan Maglio e Alceu Bittencourt              Supervision Mission (in Washington)

      24 to 26-August      1994 Emílio Rodriguez, Manuel Mariño e Caroline Berg            Overall Supervision Mission
                                                                                 Technical Supervision Mission (Pollution and Solid
       Oct 24              1994                   Carl Bartone                                  Waste Disposal)

      30-Nov and 1-3-Dec   1994                 Emílio Rodriguez                              Missão de Supervisão
                                                                                   Technical Supervision Mission (Recuperação
       08 to 10-Dec        1994                   Daniel Gross                                       Urbana)

       06 to 08-Feb        1995                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
       Jun 30              1995                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
      14-19-Sep            1995                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
       11 to 15 Dec        1995  Emílo Rodriguez, Carl Bartone, Manoel Mariño e              Mid Term Mission (MTR)
       Jun 1               1996                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
       Aug 19              1996                 Emílio Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission

       Sep 2               1996                  Carl R. Bartone                  Technical Supervision Mission (Water Quality)


      28-Oct and 01-Nov    1996        Dirceu Yamazaki e Alceu Bittencourt                     Supervision Mission
                                                                                               Supervision Mission
      09-12 December       1996        Emílio Rodriguez e Manoel Mariño                        Supervision Mission

      29-30 Jan            1997   Daniel Gross, Orville Grimes e Dan Aronson      Technical Supervision Mission (Resettlement)

     27-29-Ago and 03 Sep 1997                  Emílio Rodriguez                               Evaluation Mission
                                  Dirceu Yamazaki, Alceu Bittencourt e Edgard
      15-16 December       1997                                                        Supervision Mission(in Washington)
                                                      Tonso
       25 to 27 May        1998 Abel Mejia, Helen Nankani, Paula Pini e Fernando               Evaluation Mission
        Oct 13             1998      Abel Mejia, Paula Pini e Adrian Cambo                      Vídeo Conference
        Oct 30             1998                     Abel Mejia                                 Evaluation Mission
       23-24 Nov           1998                     Paula Pini                                 Evaluation Mission
       Mar 24              1999                     Abel Mejia                                 Supervision Mission
       27- 28May           1999                     Paula Pini                                 Evaluation Mission




                                                           - 90 -

Jun 24        1999                      Abel Mejia                               Supervision Mission
29-30 Sep     1999           Martin Gambrill e Paula Pini                              Seminar
 1-4 Oct      1999           Martin Gambrill e Paula Pini                        Supervision Mission

29-30 Nov     1999  Antônio Carlos de Mendes Thame, Celso Pitta,     (Apresentação do Programa in Washington -
                      Dirceu Yamazaki, Antônio Teixeira, Ricardo                  Results Evaluation)

1- 2 Dec      1999      Dirceu Yamazaki, Ricardo Araújo, Alceu           Supervision Mission (in Washington)
                     Bittencourt e Atílio Mariano de Araújo Pereira

Feb 10        2000 Dirceu Yamazaki, Ricardo Araújo e Edgard Tonso          Supervision Mission (in Brasília)

Apr 6         2000                      Abel Mejia                               Supervision Mission
May 12        2000 Danny Leipziger, Abel Mejia, Jeff Gutman e Carlos             Supervision Mission
8-9 Jun       2000           Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                         Supervision Mission
21- 22-Sep    2000           Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                         Supervision Mission
                                                                    Supervision Mission (Evaluation Workshop of the
11-13 Dec     2000      Abel Mejia, Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                       Program)

5-6 Mar       2001           Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                             ICR Mission

22-24 May     2001      Abel Mejia, Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                      ICR Mission
                                                                                Water Quality Seminar




                                               - 91 -

Annex 4.2 Bank Inputs- Site Visits Alto Iguacu Component

             Date                                       Participants                                         Event
1-Feb               1991                                                                            Program Identification
29 May to 14 June   1991 Emilio Rodriguez, Mr Rolando Seroa da Motta, Messers, Bartone, M Freire     Preparation Mission
15 to 25 July       1991     Emilio Rodriguez, Mr Rolando Seroa da Motta, Messers, Bartone           Preparation Mission
04 to 13 Sept       1991     Emilio Rodriguez, Mr Rolando Seroa da Motta, Messers, Bartone           Preparation Mission
14-Oct to 13-Nov-   1991     Emilio Rodriguez, Mr Rolando Seroa da Motta, Messers, Bartone          Pre-Appraisal Mission
22 to 23-Feb        1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                                  Appraisal Mission
22 to 28-Feb        1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                               Appraisal Elaboration
24 to 28-Feb        1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                                  Evaluation Mission
26-May to 03-June   1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                                  Loan Negotiation
6 of June           1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                               Staff Appraisal Report
17 of December      1992                             Emilio Rodriguez                                  Loan Agreement
April 2-13          1993     Emilio Rodriguez, Marylou Veizaga, Antonio Estache, Maria Mejia         Supervision Mission
16-21 june          1993                           Emilio H. Rodriguez                               Supervision Mission
15-Sep              1993                   Emilio H. Rodriguez, Manuel Mariño                        Supervision Mission
Oct 4-5             1993          Emilio Rodriguez, Mr Rolando Seroa da Motta, Mariño                Supervision Mission
Dec 01-02           1993           Emilio Rodriguez, Marylou Veizaga, Maria Clara Mejia              Supervision Mission
May 10-11           1994                   Emilio H. Rodriguez, Manuel Mariño                        Supervision Mission
Aug 22-23           1994        Emilio H. Rodriguez, Manuel Mariño, Caroline Van Den Berg            Supervision Mission
Dec 1-3             1994                    Emilio Rodriguez, Gambrill,Gross                         Supervision Mission
Dec4-Dec 6          1994                    Emilio Rodriguez, Gambrill,Gross                         Supervision Mission
Feb 9-12            1995                             Emilio Rodriguez                             Limited Supervision Mission
Sept 1-2            1995                      Emilio Rodriguez, Daniel Gross
Sep 11-13           1995                             Emilio Rodriguez                                Supervision Mission
4-Oct               1995                              Daniel Gross                                   Supervision Mission
May 13-21           1996      Emilio Rodriguez, F Kriegler, Manuel Mariño, Mary-Lou Veizaga            Mid Term Review
June 3 -11          1996      Emilio Rodriguez, F Kriegler, Manuel Mariño, Mary-Lou Veizaga            Mid Term Review
Oct 21-23           1996                     Karin Kemper, Emilio Rodriguez                       Partial Supervission Mission
14-Nov              1996                     Emilio Rodriguez, Karin Kemper                          Supervision Mission
16-Oct              1996                     Karin Kemper, Emilio Rodriguez                          Supervision Mission
Jan 30-Feb1         1997               Daniel Gross, Daniel Aronson, Orvilee Grimes                  Supervision Mission
8-Feb               1997                              Karin Kemper                                   Supervision Mission
Feb 24-27           1997                    Emilio Rodriguez,Mariño, Kemper                          Supervision Mission
Jan 30-Feb1         1997               Daniel Gross, Daniel Aronson, Orvilee Grimes                  Supervision Mission
Aug 27-29           1997                             Emilio Rodriguez                                Supervission Mission
Sept1-2             1997                             Emilio Rodriguez                                Supervision Mission
May 25-27           1998                               Hynd Bouhia                                Partial Supervision Mission
Sept 9-11           1998                               Carlos Velez                                  Supervision Mission
March 24-26         1999          Carlos Velez, Franz Dress,George Ledec, Alberto Ninio              Supervision Mission
May24-26            1999                   Carlos Velez, Paula Pini, Franz Dress                     Supervision Mission
Oct19-Nov 5         1999                        Carlos Velez, Franz Dress                            Supervision Mission
31 May 23 June      2000                   Carlos Velez, Paula pini, Franz Dress                     Supervision Mission
       28-Aug       2000                              Irani Escolano                              Post-Review Procurement
     16-17 Nov      2000                       Franz Dress, Efrain Jimenez                           Supervision Mission
5-14 March          2001                  Abel Mejia, Martin Gambril e Paula Pini                         ICR Mission




                                                           - 92 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 93 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 94 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

7.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT
1.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Volume 1 -Descrição e
      Justificativ a - Cobrape Cia.Brasileira de Projetos e Empreendimentos, Outubro de 1991.
2.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Volume 2 - Detalhamento
      dos Componentes- Parte A - Cobrape Cia. Brasileira de Projetos e Empreendimentos,
      Outubro de 1991
3.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Volume 2 - Detalhamento
      dos Componentes - Parte B - Cobrape Cia. Brasileira de Projetos e Empreendimentos,
      Outubro de 1991
4.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Volume 3 - Organização
      Institucional - Cobrape Cia. Brasileira de Projetos e Empreendimentos, Outubro de 1991
5.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Volume 4 - Informações
      Complementares - Cobrape Cia. Brasileira de Projetos e Empreendimentos, Outubro de 1991
6.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga ­ RIMA
7.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga ­ EIA
8.    Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Water Quality and Pollution Control Project -
      The World Bank, June 9, 1992
9.    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Relatório Final
      Sobre Qualidade da Agua
10.   Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Relatório Final
      Sobre Urbanização de Favelas
11.   Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Relatório Institucional
12.   Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Avaliação Econômico
      -Financeira "Ex-Post"
13.   Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Water Quality and Pollution Control Project
      - The World Bank, June 9, 1992
14.   Brasil- Country Strategy Assistance (CAS), The World Bank 2002
15.   Project Status Report- (PSR) 1-32, The World Bank
16.   Constituição do Estado de São Paulo,Dispositivos sobre Recursos Hídricos TÍTULO
      VI Da Ordem Econômic CAPÍTULO IV Do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Naturais
      e do Saneamento SEÇÃO II Dos Recursos Hídricos Art. 205
17.   Lei Estadual N° 898 , de 1° de Novembro de 1975
18.   Projeto de Lei nº 20, de 1998
19.   Lei Nº 10.020, de 3 de Julho de 1998
20.   LeiNº 1.172, de 17 de Novembro de 1976
21.   Decreto nº 43.022, de 7 de Abril de 1998
22.   Lei No 9.984, DE 17 de Julho de 2000
23.   Lei Nº 9.866, de 28 de Novembro de 1997.
24.   Lei Nº 9.866, de 28 de Novembro de 1997.
25.   Lei Nº 7.663, 30 de Dezembro de 1991
26.   Lei Nº 9.433 de 8 de janeiro de 1997
27.   Lei Estadual Nº 12.726/99
28.   COBRAPE. Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga ­ Volume 4:
      Informações Complementares. São Paulo, out. 1991.
29.   COBRAPE. Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga ­ Volume 4:
      Informações Complementares. São Paulo, out. 1931
30.   COBRAPE. Gerenciamento da Fase Final do Programa Guarapiranga e Avaliação de seus
      Resultados. Manual de Procedimentos da Gerência        Regional. São Paulo, jan. 2001
31.   Consórcio CNEC/JNS. Plano de Desenvolvimento e Proteção Ambiental da Bacia do
      Guarapiranga. Produto PIII.1 - Diagnóstico da Situação        Atual e Modelo Orçamentário
      Preliminar da Gestão. São Paulo, jan. 1996.



                                                     - 95 -

32.  BIRD. Report n° 10523-BR. Staff Appraisal Report ­ Brazil ­ Water Quality and Pollution
     Control Project. Jun. 1992
33.  SABESP. SAM-75. Estudo de Revisão e Atualização do Sistema Adutor Metropolitano.
     São Paulo, mai. 1995.
34.  SABESP. Relatório de Gestão Empresarial. São Paulo, mar. 2000.
35.  Conselho Estadual de Recursos Hídricos de São Paulo. Simulação da Cobrança pelo Uso
     da Água. São Paulo, jul. 1997.
36.  Recursos Hidricos e Saneamento na Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Pualo: Um desafio do Tamanho
     da Cidade, Agua Brasil Serie 3, Monica Porto, Banco Mundial.
37.  Guarapiranga, Urban and Environmental rehabilitation on the city of Sao Paulo, Marcos Carrillho,
     Brasil, 1998
38.  Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Relatorio de Avaliacao Ex-post, Marco
     2003
39.  Programa de Saneamento Ambiental da Bacia do Guarapiranga - Relatorio Final, Marco 2003
40.  Termos de Referencia para contratacao de projectos de urbanizacao- Volume I- Gerenciamiento da fase
     final do programa Guarapiranga e avalacao de seus resultados- Julho/2001.
41.  Termos de Referencia para contratacao de projectos de urbanizacao- Volume II- Gerenciamiento da fase
     final do programa Guarapiranga e avalacao de seus resultados- Julho/2001




                                                 - 96 -

7.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT
1.    Bizzoni, M., 2000; Comparação do desempenho dos modelos QUAL-2E e MIKE 11 na Região
      do Alto Iguaçu, Dissertação de Mestrado Programa de Mestrado em Engenharia Hidráulica da UFPR.
2.    Chow, V.T., 1959; Open-Channel Hydraulics, McGraw-Hill: International Student Edition.
3.    Dziedzic, M., 1997; Projeto HG-101 - Estudos de Qualidade da Água no Rio Iguaçu e no
      reservatório do aproveitamento hidrelétrico de Salto Caxias, Relatório Mensal de Atividades
4.    Fischer, H.B., List, E.J., Koh, R.C.Y., Imberger, J. and Brooks, N.H., 1979; Mixing in Inland
      and Coastal Waters, Academic Pres
5.    LACTEC, 1998. Instituto Tecnológico do Laboratório Central de P&D ­ LACTEC, LAC,
      LAC QAP; Estudo de Viabilidade Ambiental do Aproveitamento Energético do Rio Chopim
      ­ Qualidade das Águas Superficiais, Novembro 1998.
6.    Silva, M. H. N. de L. e, 1999; Análise e Modelagem Numérica da Qualidade da Água em Rios.
      Dissertação de Mestrado, Programa de Mestrado em Engenharia Hidráulica da UFPR.
7.    SUDERHSA, 1997; Qualidade de Águas Interiores do Estado do Paraná, 1987-1995.
8.    Sherman B Codeiro; Impactos Positivos Resultantes da Construcao da Barragem Irai (Parana),
      SANEPAR, Curitiba, 2002
9.    Lei 12.726/99 - Sistema Estadual de Gerenciamiento de Recursos Hídricos
10.   Lei12.248/98- Sistema Integrado de Gestao o Protecao aos Manaciais
11.   Consehlo Estadual de Recursos Hidricos (Decreto n 2.316/0)
12.   Comites de Bacias Hidrograficas (Decreto n 2.315/00)
13.   Participacao de Organizacoes civis de recursos hidricos (Decreto N 2.316/0)
14.   Competencias de Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos (Decreto N 2.317/00)
15.   Outorga de direitos de uso de recursos hidricos (Decreto n 4.646/01)
16.   Fondo Estadual de Recursos Hidricos (Decreto n 4.647/01)
17.   Cobranca pelo direito de uso de recursos hidricos (Decreto n 5.361/02)
18.   Avaliacao Economica e Financiera do Programa, Consultores Asociados, May 2003
19.   Analise do Impacto do PROSAM sobre a Qualidad da Agua na Regiao Metropolitana
      de Cruritiba, PROSAM 2003
20.   Sischer, HB., List, E.J Koh, R.C.Y., Imberger, J. and Brooks, N.H., 1979; Mixing in Inland and
      Coastal Waters, Academic Press
21.   LACTEC, 1998. Instituto Tecnologico do LboratorioCentrla de P&D- LACTEC, LAC, LAC
      QAP; Estudo de Viabilidade Ambiental do Aprovamiento Energetico do Rio Chopin- Qualidade
      das Aguas Superficiais, Novembro 1998
22.   Silva M.H.N de L.e, 1999; Analise e Modelagem Numerica da Qualidad da Agua em Rios.
      Dissetacao de Mestrado, Programa de Mestrado en Engenharia Hidraulica da UFPR.
23.   Relacao das Pendencias de Pagamiento do PROSAM, May 2003
24.   Indicadores de Monitoramento, Atualizacao dos criterios, da metodologia de acompanhamento e
      das metas, PROSAM 2003
25.   Relatorio Trimestral de Situacao Outubre/Novembro/Dezembro de 2001-Memorando
      Tecnico 034-02-UGP-PROSAM
26.   SUDERHSA, 1997; Qualidad de Aguas Interiores do Estado do Parana, 1987-1995
27.   Relatorio de Progreso July-December 2000
28.   Ltr fr SRHSO UGP-005-00 Relatorio de Progreso do Programa Guarapiranga,
      Juhlo a Dez 1999- 3505-BR
29.   RPT memo for UGP- Prosam 067-99 re indicadores monitoramento, quadro avalicao resultados
      programa 3505-BR
30.   RPT memo fr Prosam 33-99 UGP- PROSAM relatorio situacao semestral (Outubro 98-Marco 99)
      LN 3505
31.   Resumo Executivo Programa Estadual de Investimetnos da Bacia do Rio Paraia do Sul-
      Rj Outubro 1998
32.   RPT re relatorio smntese palno desenvolvimietno e protecao ambientalda Bacia do Guarapiranga
33.   Relatorio final R4, ctn 183 95 NN- PE- 588-ES-95 especific. Tecnicas sistema identific (3505-BR)



                                                    - 97 -

34.  Relatorio Trimestral de Situacao, Outubro, Novembro, Dezembro de 2002 com Memorando
     Tecnico 015-03- UGP-PROSAM
35.  RPT relatorio de Progresso Vol 1 (Julio 94)
36.  Relatorio bimestral de situacao (Novembro-Dezembro 1999)
37.  Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Water Quality and Pollution Control Project - The World Bank,
     June 9, 1992
38.  Brasil- Country Strategy Assistance (CAS), The World Bank 2002
39.  Project Status Report- (PSR) 1-32, The World Bank
40.  Bizzoni M.,A83; Comparacao do desempenho dos modelos QUAL-2E e Mike 11 na Regiao do
     Alto Iguacu, Dissetacao de Mestrado Programa        de Mestrado em Engenharia Hidraulica de UFPR
41.  Chow, V.T., 1959; Open- Channel Hydraulics, Mc Graw-Hill: International Student Edition
42.  Dziedzic, M., 1997; Projecto HG-101- Estudos de Qualidad da Agua no Rio Iguacu e no Reservatorio
     do Aproveitamento hidrelectrico de Salta Caxias, Relatorio Mensual de atividades- 06/97, COPEL




                                                   - 98 -

Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

8.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT

Objective      The survey of beneficiaries aimed to identify changes in the quality of life of those
families benefited under the Guarapiranga Basin Environmental Sanitation Program. The overall
aim of the survey was to assess the level of satisfaction of the residents in urbanized areas and of
those who had been resettled or relocated to new homes. The purpose of the survey was to assess
both positive and negative aspects of the performance of the Program in order to form a basis for
rescheduling activities in those areas degraded by irregular settlement/occupation.

Methodology         The survey aimed mainly at identifying the level of satisfaction of the residents
with the changes that had been effected. The questionnaire contained self-contained (`Yes-No')
questions and a number which required qualitative responses. The report attempted to make a
comparison between previous and current living conditions. Two focus groups were subsequently
organized which brought together local leaders from the urbanized areas and people who had
been resettled inapartment blocks. In the course of these meetings it was possible to assess in situ
the actual contents of the survey with a selection of local residents and so facilitate understanding
of a number of concerns which were not apparent from the survey itself. The survey and
community focus group meetings provided a qualitative assessment of the activities/interventions
undertaken by the Program. This took into account the following: improvements in sanitation
conditions in the slums, modifications to the urban layout, population density, domestic/household
living    conditions, health    conditions,  law    and    order   (public  safety),    life  in  the
community/community solidarity, self-confidence within the community, ability to relate to
surrounding neighborhoods, income generation opportunities, improvements in the quality of life
brought about by urbanization, resettlement and relocation of families and the sustainability of the
various interventions carried out.

Improvement of sanitary conditions          Residents who were interviewed confirmed that water
and sewage services had improved by a factor of 74% and 85% respectively; that 90% of all
dwellings were fitted with a hydrometer and that 82% of all dwellings were connected to the
wastewater network. This achievement reflects the process of natural growth of the slums which
were urbanized under the auspices of the Program . As regards stormwater drainage, only 39% of
residents reckoned that this was collected in the underground network, while 47% responded that
the water simply ran off on the surface. As for garbage disposal in inappropriate locations, 54% of
those interviewed affirmed that the problem still existed, as did that regarding the presence of
harmful rodents ( 58%).

It can be concluded that the Program made an effective contribution toward controlling open-air
disposal of wastewater and clandestine drinking water connections. Both of these aspects
registered substantial improvement. Nevertheless, the problem of drainage, disposal and
accumulation of garbage in inappropriate locations and the presence of harmful rodents persists. It
is vital to remember that the Program did not make arrangements for investment within homes
aimed at regularizing stormwater drainage. As for garbage accumulating in inappropriate places
and the resulting proliferation of harmfulrodents, this is due to the absence of an efficient garbage



                                                - 99 -

collection system specifically tailored for the slums, as well as the need for improved and
expanded environmental education for slum dwellers.

Changes to the urban pattern         87% of residents interviewed affirmed that vehicle access had
definitely improved while 59% said that noted improvements in pedestrian access. Improvements
were also confirmed in recreation areas and 93% of interviewees said that they were satisfied with
the channeling works carried out on streams/creeks in the areas. Elimination of `risk situations'
was also evaluated positively by the population: 83% said that the problems arising from flooding
were being dealt with and a further 83% said that the problems caused by landslides had
ameliorated. The data showed that effective change had taken place in the urban pattern of the
nuclei and that more disciplined space occupation, and a reduction of risk situations, were now
apparent.

Increasing population density           The survey showed indirectly that `population turnaround'
persisted in the slums as well as a trend for new dwellings to be formed. 9% of interviewees said
that had come to live in the slum following urbanization. A further question indicating an increase
in the population of the areas concerned the reasons why residents chose to carry out work on
their homes: 4% said that the purpose of such refurbishment was to make space for `new
additions' to their families, while 17% admitted that it was to provide for accommodation for
relatives. At the same time, increased real estate prices were cited by 88% of interviewees as the
reason why units were being put up for sale. There was a clear tendency to accommodate new
people in the dwelling units (21%), resulting in buildings being extended - in general done
vertically given the fact that most of the areas were already densely occupied by buildings.

Housing conditions According to focus-group leaders, the Program provided a stimulus to
people to undertake work on their homes. The survey showed that 45% of those interviewed had
improved their homes and 53% had invested as much as R$2,000 in such work. The main reason
given for expenditure on homes was to improve living conditions (73%).

Health conditions 75% responded that health conditions of slum families had improved, while
24% said that they were the same and 12% reckoned that health conditions had deteriorated.
Questioned about cases of waterborne diseases, or any illness as related to quality of life in the
nucleus during year 2000, 10% of interviewees said that they had encountered a number of
diseases : skin problems 3%; verminous diseases 2%; diarrhea 2%; hepatitis 1%; dengue 1% and
bronchitis 1% (caused by dampness). While the survey pointed to substantial improvements in
health conditions in the urbanized areas, problems related to the lack of hygiene and poor quality
dwelling spaces still persist.

Public safety     It was hoped that improved vehicular and pedestrian access would contribute to
better public safety conditions within the slums. However, improvements failed to occur across
the board in all the urbanized areas. Of the residents interviewed, 27% affirmed that the situation
had indeed improved, while 27% responded that it was the same and 38% reckoned that it had
deteriorated. 8% failed to give a response. While the Program had introduced physical
improvements in the slums, nevertheless the systematic and effective presence of the official
authorities in the slums was called for. At focus group meetings, local leaders suggested that one



                                                 - 100 -

of the solutions would be to press for joint action by the state and municipal police. Other
suggestions proposed were improvements to public lighting and the erection of steel railings at
the entrance to alleyways in order to prevent them from becoming places for illegal drug dealing.

Community life and participation        Slum nuclei are characterized by a low level of community
organization and participation to resolve common problems. Before the inception of the Program,
9% of residents affirmed that they belonged to community organizations. After conclusion of the
works, 91% responded that new associations had been set up but that only 13% fully participated
in them. 60% complained that difficulties had arisen from the use of collective facilities and only
31% were prepared to get involved in resolving such problems.

As for community participation during the works stage of the Program, 34% of the residents in
urbanized areas responded that they participated effectively, while 49% said they had made an
occasional contribution. It was asserted in the focus groups that community leaders had grown in
stature and possessed greater credibility vis-à-vis both the population and the local authorities.
The Program certainly reinforced the role of local leaders but community participation in the
associations is still weak. One suggestion proposed was that training should be given to leaders to
enable them to improve their performance within the community.

Self-confidence of the community and links with surrounding neighborhoods              With regard
to problems with neighboring areas, 12% of interviewees confirmed that these indeed existed.
Local leaders in the focus groups commented that the recreation areas and the streets of a number
of slums were being used by people from other areas around and that one of the more significant
benefits arising from the Program was that slums were gradually being transformed into real
`neighborhoods'. Urbanization had brought changes in family habits, while 62% of the population
thought that the appearance of the slums had improved, with 83% considering that the place had
improved to the extent that they felt confident about receiving friends and relatives there
-reinforcing the conclusion that the Program activities had contributed towards improving the
self-esteem of the community as a whole. Other relevant aspects mentioned in the focus groups
were that the Program had brought government bodies into closer touch with the communities
and members of the communities were becoming aware of their status as citizens. It was noted
that residents had begun to feel that they now had a stake in the areas that had benefited from the
Program activities.

Opportunities for income generation         As regards family income, 4% of respondents declared
that they had undertaken improvement works in their homes in order to generate income and 3%
of the population said that their incomes had improved following urbanization. Nevertheless the
percentage remains very low. It was expected that as streets were opened up, the fact of residents
having a fixed abode would to some extent facilitate their access to the employment market.
According to interviewees, living conditions could be improved with the development of
jobs/income-generating programs. If people were to become better established in the area as a
result of being employed there, this would stem the high population turnover, the resulting illegal
occupation of other areas and the formation of new slums.

Resettlement and relocation of families              Respondents evaluated the resettlement and



                                               - 101 -

relocation of families as `favourable'. 88% of relocated families and 77% of resettled families
considered that their quality of life had improved. 77% of the relocated residents and 74% of the
resettled families said that the Program had met their needs in a satisfactory manner. Nevertheless,
it was important to point out that certain aspects required fine-tuning especially as regards the
resettlement of residents in apartment blocks (Conjuntos Habitacionais, CHs). It was claimed that
around 25-35% of the families resettled incurred adaptation problems either as the result of their
dislike of living in apartments or that they lacked the economic and/or cultural wherewithal to
assume financial commitments (eg on a home) or that they were not satisfied in their new areas
for a variety of deficiencies (lack of a school or creche, poor public transport etc.). Indebted
residents customarily transfered their apartments irregularly to third parties and often returned to
their original homes in the slums. Indebtedness and the cultural problem involved in being unable
to adapt to community life, together with the question of drugs consumption and criminality -
often originating in the slum itself (resettled residents) made life in the CHs unsustainable
according to statements made at the focus group meetings. This situation was repeated in some of
the other CHs surveyed, which suggests that the selection process involving families to live in the
CHs needs to be reviewed. A prior assessment of the economic and cultural circumstances of
families to be resettled in the CHs is needed to avoid accusations of helping to build `vertical'
slums. On the other hand, if prior selection of potential residents (ie: choosing those with the
`correct' profile) and improved mechanisms were introduced to facilitate housing swaps within
the slums,     it might be possible to ensure that families which chose to assume financial
responsibility for a home would experience real improvement in their quality of life.

Sustainability of the interventions       Sustainability of interventions can be evaluated from three
points of view: conservation of the works by residents; maintenance of the areas and investments
by public bodies; and costs recovery.

As regards action by residents, 71% of interviewees claimed that residents were maintaining the
works that had been carried out. 4% said that conditions in the urbanized areas were still being
improved. 82% confirmed that they were connected to the wastewater network. Nevertheless, the
problem of garbage disposal in unsuitable places and the lack of drainage connections to the
appropriate networks indicated a need for more investment in environmental education programs
and appropriate follow-up.

The performance of the public authorities in maintaining and preserving the works is deficient.
Questioned about improvements that could be made to enhance quality of life in the nuclei,
residents listed the following: street-cleaning, unblocking wastewater networks and galleries, lack
of public street lighting and the official naming of streets. The absence of a `presence' by the
public authorities in some urbanized areas was indicated by residents'concern about (i) the public
safety issue and (ii) population pressure on the nuclei resulting in extensions being made to
buildings with no regard for planning enforcement or inspection by the municipal authorities.

Finally, as for cost recovery, families are indeed paying for water consumption - 84% claim that
they receive water bills. Other costs were not charged by the municipal authorities in cases
where `intervention' areas had not been officially recorded with the land registry authorities.




                                                - 102 -

8.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT
The execution of the resettlement subcomponent was in accordance with the design and
methodology presented by the Appraisal Document. As had been identified, population
resettlement was a critical component in the program to protect water quality and public health,
requiring redesign of the occupation pattern of land close to water sources. Resettlement
benefited families living in flood-prone areas, deprived of land titles and basic services. In the
resettlement areas, families acquired access to safe housing, regular land use, legal documentation
and basic services.

The Appraisal Document estimated a need for resettling 1,400 families. The total number of
families effectively resettled was 1,434 :

               Resettlement area                         Number of
                                                         families
               Bonilaure                                 625
              Trevisan                                   375
              Ancora                                     264
              Timbu                                      170
               Total                                     1434

The results obtained from the execution of resettlement activities were assessed by the Federal
University of Paraná, an independent entity. The University team applied a methodology to
identify beneficiaries' satisfaction with resettlement, particularly concerning improvements in the
quality of life achieved in the areas where         resettlement had taken place.The methodology
included the organisation of focus groups in the four resettlement areas.

The following are the main conclusions and recommendations regarding the satisfaction level of
resettled families.

Conclusions:

·       The level of collaboration among the several public and civil organizations involved in the
implementation of the resettlement activities was very high and positive. The resettlement
activities concerned federal government, state and municipal organisations, as well as civil society
bodies.
·       The main objectives of the plan were achieved, such as improvement of the quality of life
of the resettled population and improvements made in the environmental quality of the fragile
areas from where the families were relocated.
·       The participation level of resettled families in defining and planning resettlement activities
was high - a fact which made for the reduction and/or avoidance of a number of usual problems in
resettlement processes. It also led to opportunities being created for families to feel that they were
an integral part of the project (and therefore wanted it to be successful).
·       Ex-post surveys carried out with resettled families demonstrated a good level of
satisfaction. Families drew attention to the following main positive aspects of the resettlement


                                                 - 103 -

process:
·       More educational equipment available;
·       Prospects for residents to remain longer in the neighbourhoods, thereby forging improved
bonds of friendship and mutual support ;
·       Regular land titles and documentation issued;
·       Access to neighbourhoods with urban planning;
·       An improvement in the quality of the material and planning of the dwellings;
·       The good quality of the plots compared with those of the area of origin which had been
damp and subject to flooding;
·       Access to basic infrastructure including water, lighting, sewage, healthcare,
communications and policing.

Negative aspects during the resettlement process included the following:

   The sale of certain resettlement plots by families who presented the following reasons: (i) that
   they were unable to adapt to the changes in social relationships and to the shopping facilities
   of the new area, (ii) they encountered greater difficulty with public transport and (iii) the
   availability of good prices that could be obtained for the resettlement lots.

The highest level of dissatisfaction was in the Ancora development. This was mainly due to
changes in the commercial and social environment, the fact of being more remote and the time
needed for travelling to perform day-to-day activities, as well as difficulties encountered by the
population in settling down during the first few months of the new neighborhood's existence.

Recommendations:

·       The expropriation or relocation processes should only be initiated after resources for
concluding the process are assured;
·       Once begun, the expropriation and/or relocation process should not be interrupted on
account of the high level of conflict and the social impacts involved;
·       The social registry must effectively set out limits for inclusion of new families and clearly
define the quality-of-life parameters for families in order to ensure that appropriate solutions are
identified for their resettlement;
·       A channel of communication must be maintained with the resettled families;
·       A discussion forum between the agents involved in the expropriations and resettlements
must be maintained;
·       Funding mechanisms for house-building must be given precedence over handing over
homes built by others. The possibility of families being able to build their own homes greatly
increases their level of satisfaction with resettlement.




                                                  - 104 -

Family satisfaction index:

     Resettlement       Unsatisfactory No change   Living
     area               (%)            (%)         conditions
                                                   improved (%)
     Timbu              5              20          95
    Bonilaure          29              32          71
    Ancora             48              24          52
    Trevisan           17              20          83
     Total              26             26          74




                                        - 105 -

Additional Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

9.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT

EVENT:                 Concluding assessment of the Guarapiranga Program with a group of
                      intervention participants and executor institutions

SUBJECT:                  An assessment of the results of the Guarapiranga Basin Environmental
                      Sanitation Program

DATE:                  11 December- 2000

TIME:                  8: 30 ­ 12: 30 hrs; 14: 00-17: 30 hrs

LOCATION:             (i)   Auditorium of the Institute of Administration Foundation ­ FIA,
                      University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo (SP);
                      (ii) FIS- Butantã Educational Unit, Rua José Alves Cunha Lima, 172 (near
                      USP ) São Paulo, SP
_________________________________________________________________________

Objectives      The main aim of the event was to evaluate and discuss the results and achievements
of the Program with executors and stakeholders in an effort to formulate a final general account
of the outcome of the activities carried out and the strategies employed. A further specific
objective of the meeting was to consider the principal problems and lessons learned in the course
of the Program, assessing in particular the benefits generated from compliance with the targets
originally set for the Program. The event was an opportunity to identify and discuss the principal
challenges and key questions regarding future maintenance and sustainability of the interventions
which in turn would impact on the environmental quality of the headwaters area.

Main subjects discussed The Workshop was organized in two main sections: in the morning
session participants focused on the performance of the Program with regard to key issues
involved. The afternoon session provided an opportunity for more general discussion and debate
about the outcomes of the Program. The UGP supplied a series of Reference Documents to
illustrate the presentations and assist discussion. These were distributed together with other
material for the use by participants. It was made clear that the general public should be informed
of the event and the progress achieved by the Program's activities. Three lines of discussion were
particularly important: (i) management of the water basin, (ii) the slum urbanization process and
(iii) aspects of water quality both in the tributaries and the Guarapiranga reservoir.

Following opening remarks by Mr Abel Mejia of the World Bank, the UGP, represented by its
Coordinator-General Dr Dirceu Yamazaki, presented an overview of progress made during the
execution of the Program, drawing attention to principal gains, inter alia (i) the bolstering of
inter-institutional contact between executors and the range of agents involved; (ii) the slum
urbanization process, and (iii) new water treatment and environmental quality technologies. He
made particular mention of the contributions made to the Program by each executor.



                                                 - 106 -

The Housing Secretary of the Municipality of Sao Paulo, Dr Paulo Teixeira, said that the PMSP
was determined to make every effort to continue the Program and the activities hitherto
developed to improve the standards in the poorest areas of the Guarapiranga Basin. Dr Alceu
Guérios Bittencourt, representing the UGP, and Mrs Elizabeth França of the Prefecture of Sao
Paulo (Municipality), referred to the main challenges and lessons learned in the course of the
Program, especially as regards the urbanization process in the slums. The latter subject was
subsequently discussed more broadly in the course of the day. The presentations and the debates
produced a consensus that an initiative such as the Guarapiranga Program was economically
viable particularly when the reduced cost of treated water resulting from the activities was taken
into account. It was also noted that the local population had experienced a marked improvement
in its quality of life.

One question concerned `who should pay for the process of slum urbanization?' It was agreed
that slum urbanization was a viable option and justifiable from the housing policy standpoint, but
that it was not a particularly cheap option. Nor was it risk-free. In summary, the process called for
ongoing and effective monitoring of the areas under intervention. A key achievement concerned
the    standards of slum urbanization      set by the Guarapiranga Program. These had become
reference standards for future interventions in environmentally-critical or socially-vulnerable areas
(eg: pockets of poverty in the areas around the headwaters). Difficulties had been experienced in
achieving these standards, not least due to the impediments arising from current legislation to
protect the headwaters. Nevertheless, Workshop participants acknowledged the fact that the
exercise of citizen's rights by slum residents constituted one of the main planks for the viability of
slum urbanization programmes. The main aims of the Guarapiranga slum urbanization subprojects
comprised: 100% sanitation facilities, access to urban equipment and insertion of the community
into the `formal' life of the city.

Discussion also centered on the quality of the actual interventions/activities effected under the
Program and issues such as cost analysis (average costs, typologies of interventions, budgetary
parameters etc). Attention was drawn to the `beneficiary survey' of the local population,
coordinated by UGP.

Other key questions arising during discussion included: (i) the importance of urban `intervention
standards' in the slums; (ii) the need for sustaining the interventions in view of the limited financial
and institutional capacity of the municipalities to maintain, enforce and monitor the structures and
equipment provided; (iii) the viability of the interventions in view of the different political,
economic, technical and operational limitations regarding legalization or formalization of the
activities; (iv) the improvements made in the urban environment as the result of integrated
intervention programs and initiatives (in this case slum urbanization); (v) the importance of `social
support/monitoring' during and after the works, and (vi) public spaces were now regarded as
important assets for the local community since the recovery of degraded areas, which had
enhanced the scope for social integration and leisure activities. Regarding new initiatives reference
was made to: (i) the need for a metropolitan housing policy which took into account typically
regional problems such as those encountered in the headwaters areas; (ii) the importance of
strategies and programs for generation of employment and income with a view to the effective



                                                 - 107 -

social inclusion of the population of low income areas; (ii) the need for an integrated approach to
address the lack of access to public services by the slum population and, finally (iv) the need for
interaction with the housing and citizenship-building movements.

As for water quality and improved sanitation, the main questions at the Workshop concerned the
so-called `separate wastewater/stormwater system' and whether or not it provided a suitable
solution for the wastewater problem in the slums. Participants commented that although the
separate system was important, treatment systems in the natural water bodies were also crucial.
Obtaining the full cooperation of slum residents for the separator procedure remained a challenge.
Meanwhile, the situation regarding water quality of the tributaries and the reservoir remained
equally important. Questions were raised about the present condition of the reservoir and the
prospects for its future development.

The UGP stated that the situation today (reservoir and tributaries) could be considered `stable'.
Many key interventions had still not produced the desired outcomes but improvements were
nevertheless expected in the reduction of pollutants entering the water. The quality of the water in
the reservoir would be permanently under operational control since it had not been possible to
recoup the quality standards existing in the reservoir prior to urban occupation - a fact which the
Program had consistently made clear since inception. Questions were also asked about whether
the advanced treatment technique in the ETA was coherent with the Program, and justifiable.
Answer: the technical improvement of the ETA was justified on account of the need to improve
the technical/operational procedures of water inflow and storage based on studies carried out
within the context of the Program concerned with increasing the efficiency of the ETA and
improving the potability of the water for consumers.

Finally, aspects related to management of the Guarapiranga Basin were discussed, following a
presentation by the planning co-ordinator of the UGP, Dr Ricardo Araujo. A short description of
the legislation that existed before the Program commenced was given and an account of the
efforts made towards replacing or altering current legislation. Reference was also made to efforts
being made to introduce a workable management structure for the river basin.

With reference to institutional and management progress, participants commented that the PDPA
played an important role in efforts to amend legislation. Furthermore, an information management
system based upon on the use of GIS, MQUAL and SIQUA was required. Looking to the future,
the following were needed: (i) each of the river basins in a critical condition should possess its
own legislative structure; (ii) political and administrative decentralization of territorial
management is needed; (iii) the linking of the management systems of the headwaters to those of
water resources, water quality and land use more broadly; and (iv) the possibility of introducing a
PDPA for each of the sub-basins of the Alto Tietê.

Major doubts were expressed about the resources available for financing basin management ­ the
question revolved around the expectation of Bill No 20/98 being enshrined in a law introducing
provisions for charging for the use of water resources. This topic was addressed by Dr Rui Brasil
of the State Secretariat of Water Resources, Sanitation and Public Works. Representing the State
Secretary, Dr Brasil stated that the Bill was proceeding through the State Legislature and that a



                                              - 108 -

number of definitions as regards charge levels and future payees had been appended. The viability
of a Basin Agency was also raised, as the executive arm of collegiate management fora
(Committee and Sub-Committee) . It was generally agreed that this should exist: its democratic
and decentralized structure would, for example, assist in the implementation of management
guidelines. In this respect it was agreed that according to State Law 10.020/98 - authorizing the
government to participate in the establishment of the Founding Agencies of the Basin (Fundacão
Agencias da Bacia) - there was suffiecient justification for the Agency to be established by means
of a `Statutory Memorandum of the Foundation Agency of the Basin of the Upper Tietê', to be
sent for approval by the Upper Tietê Committee (drafting coordinated by the Special Commission
appointed by Deliberative Act CBH-AT no 07/98 of 5 August 1998). One of the key points was
the drafting of a paper in support of a specific law governing the Guarapiranga Basin. This would
comprise a series of technical innovations (pollutant targets, land control/use etc), institutional
innovations (definition of management instruments such as MQUAL and PDPA) and
political-administrative innovations (responsibilities for environmental licensing and legalization
and regularization of use of water etc. ).

 Conclusions.     It was agreed that one of the basic objectives of the Guarapiranga Program was
to improve the quality of life of the population residing in the Basin area and to influence and
enhance the urban standards. It was also proposed that a housing policy should be designed within
the context of the metropolitan area. The Guarapiranga Program had developed at a time of
economic stagnation and a worsening of social indicators in the area. This situation evidently
undermined some of the Program's results. Increasing population pressure on new `occupation'
areas had been a major constraint. In spite of the unfavorable circumstances, the achievements had
been formidable. For the first time, integrated ongoing action between the State and municipalities
had taken place and would receive a boost from the impending legislation to protect the
headwaters. It was also agreed that the Program was the first coordinated initiative of the
government for the benefit of a population group which to an extent found itself marginalized (on
account of its irregular occupation of the areas). Finally, the Program had made an important
contribution to setting standards for urban interventions in areas that were extremely vulnerable
from an environmental and social point of view.




                                                - 109 -

Additional Annex 10. Population Ressetlement

Initial prospects for resettlement.      The following is a brief account of the development of the
Population Resettlement Component within the Slum Urbanization Program of the Environmental
Sanitation Program of the Guarapiranga River Basin. It covers the basic guidelines for
resettlement laid down in the 1992 Appraisal, the parameters governing population relocation, a
description of the resettlement requirements of the executors, the initial policies adopted,
modifications carried out in the course of the Program and, finally, an account of the resettlements
and relocations carried out under the Program up to December 2000.

The relocation of families under the auspices of the Guarapiranga Program arose from the need
to clear areas in order to effect major slum urbanization schemes and implement sanitation
infrastructure, together with efforts to contain areas of risk. A total slum eradication policy was
adopted only in very few cases, due mainly to the impossibility of connecting all dwellings to the
sewage network given the risk of landslides or buildings collapsing.

Initial demand for dwelling units for resettling the population under the aegis of the Guarapiranga
Program was determined on the basis of preliminary surveys carried out by the PMSP and CDHU.
The latter were able to indicate the slum `nuclei' which they considered to be most appropriate for
intervention activities, plus an estimate of the number of families needing to be relocated within
each nucleus - this amounted to 10% of the total population of each slum. The estimate was based
upon the executors' previous experience of major urbanization projects. Detailed studies
providing precise numbers were not available. The 1992 Appraisal Report indicates a requirement
to relocate 3,700 families.

Parameters governing relocation The parameters governing relocation under the Guarapiranga
Program were as follows:

·       Since the bulk of relocations arose from slum urbanization work, the number of
relocations required depended on the type of projects developed for each area. At the outset, it
was not possible precisely to determine real demand. Actual demand for relocation only became
apparent as work progressed on the urbanization of groups of slums.
·       While the number of relocations largely depended on the kind of urbanization projects
designed for individual slums, the Guarapiranga Program chose to adopt a policy of keeping
relocations to an absolute minimum during urban improvement work. This meant that during the
execution of the Program efforts were made to redeploy families within the existing slums. This
was made possible by constructing dwellings in areas that had already been identified by the
urbanization engineering designs.
·       In addition to the physical limitations, drafting of the urbanization engineering designs had
to take into account the views of the slum dwellers themselves. These negotiations focussed on
making maximum use of `free areas' and on discussing the new street alignment process for laying
down the sewage network, as well as on relocating and resettling local residents.
·       It was apparent that the final number of relocations in a given slum would only become
known at the conclusion of the urbanization intervention. The final figure depended on the
physical limitations arising in the course of the works and on the results of the agreements reached



                                                 - 110 -

with the resident population.

Resettlement requirements by the executors             CDHU carried out an analysis of resettlement
requirements in 1993 in the municipalities of Embu, Itapecerica da Serra and Embu Guaçu. 77
slum areas were identified. From this total, 29 slums were selected for priority extension of the
sewage network by SABESP. In 1994, the PMSP initiated a detailed study identifying 180 slum
nuclei, of which 139 were judged eligible for intervention and for which the engineering design
was subsequently drawn up.

New data led to a rescheduling of the activities under the 1995 Mid Term Review. This estimated
the relocation of 2,370 families in the Sao Paulo municipal area and 938 families eligible for
relocation in Embu, Itapecerica da Serra and Embu Guaçu ­ a total of 3,308 families to be
removed and relocated.

In 1998, at the conclusion of the engineering designs, when the final rescheduling of the
resettlement programme was done, it was agreed that the total relocations of families in the Sao
Paulo municipality in fact amounted to 2,370, with 534 in the remaining municipal areas.

At the conclusion of the Program itself, 2,839 families had been relocated ­ 1,764 families in
apartment blocks (Conjuntos Habitacionais, CHs)(262 under the auspices of PMSP and 1502
under CHDU), 869 families were relocated to properties constructed within the slum areas (654
by PMSP and 215 by CHDU) and 206 families went to live in accommodation belonging to other
residents in the slums who had chosen to assume the financing of apartments in the CHs (the `
chessboard' system).

Modus operandi         At the outset of the Programme, it became clear that the conventional
procedures for building housing units and providing subsidized finance for relocated families
would encounter limitations:

·       The plots available in the areas targeted presented a series of difficulties: high costs,
unfavorable physical conditions and constraints placed upon them by the current headwater
environmental protection legislation.
·       The resident population was extremely poor and substantial subsidies would be required to
attend to their needs.
·       The deadlines for constructing the new units were too short.

The following modus operandi was chosen to address some of the above problems:
·       Ordinary subsidized housing finance was to be made available for units constructed by the
CDHU or for housing units within the normal private property market that displayed cost
advantages in comparison with the properties built directly by the CDHU. In the above cases, the
State Popular Housing Finance System (Sistema Estadual de Habitação Popular) would apply.
·       Renting with an option to buy. Under this scheme the units constructed by the CDHU
were to be offered for rent, given that the real final costs were incompatible with current CDHU
business policy.
·       The Credit Card system. This was a credit operation designed to provide finance for



                                                - 111 -

mortgages to acquire property in the formal property market. The system was also extended to
individual financing for the purchase of plots and /or `self build' construction materials.

The above alternatives were based on the premise of minimum disruption to families. In order to
ensure that the proposed investments remained sound, those families with access to sufficient
funds to cover the loans were awarded first priority under the above schemes. At the same time,
further schemes were developed to respond to the requirement for `internal' relocations within the
slum nuclei:

·       Relocations per se : these consisted of the building of new dwelling units in plots that had
been made available as a result of the urbanization works in the slum areas
·       The so-called chessboard arrangements: these applied to families with less than one
minimum wage and consisted of relocation to accommodation already existing in slums where the
`owners' were interested in leaving the slum and taking on the financial commitments involved in
living in one of the CJs.

The following chart shows the number of dwelling units offered (by municipality and by executor-
PMSP or CDHU):

Dwelling Units by Municipality

                                                                          "Social

                                 New Dwelling Units                      renting"/
                                                                          Credit
  Municipalities                                                           Card         Total
                     Conventional    Conventional        "Social"
                     Applications    Applications         renting           DU

                        CDHU             PMSP                            READY

    Sao Paulo             868              500              1138           400          3106
       Embu               129               -                160           306           495
  Itapecerica da                                              -
       Serra              370               -                              277           647

   Embu-Guacu             86                -                 -             37           123
       Total             1453              500              1489           980          3871




                                               - 112 -

In addition to the above alternatives approved in 1993, it became necessary to draw up a
Supplementary Resettlement Program given that certain undertakings that had been originally
planned were not completed by the CDHU. This scheme offered a variety of options for acquiring
housing:

·      `Chamamento empresarial'. This consisted of a program developed by the CDHU in 1994
under which private businesses submitted a project (CDHU units or own projects covering
300-600 housing units) and undertook to build on their own land in accordance with a budget
submitted by tender. The advantage of this system was that the land, the project and the final
building costs were determined by contract and the costs defrayed on a stage-payment basis,
thereby substantially reducing operational costs.
·      `Chamamento Pequenas Empresas': This was a program similar to the foregoing,
designed for smaller building schemes (groups of plots).




                                              - 113 -

Alternatives - 1994 Resettlement Plan

Alternatives                          Supply         Cost DU
                                                      ($US)
                                     Typology         No. de
                                                     DUHand
                                                       over
                                                     dateLoca
                                                       tion
Conventional
Applications
   CDHU:                               Apts          288Jan/9
 Jardim Sao                                           5South
     Luis                                            Zone17.5
                                                         00
     Voith                             Houses        410Jul/96
                                                      North
                                                       Zone
                                                      15.200
   Itajuibe                           Houses         170Oct/9
                                                       6East
                                                     Zonen.a
Jardim Vitoria                        Houses         129Mar/9
                                                     6Embun.
                                                         a
  Complex 1                          Houses /Apts    88/80Dec
     (I.S)                                           /95Itapce
                                                      rica da
                                                     Serran.a
  Complex 2                          Houses /Apts    106/96Ju
     (I.S)                                           n/96Itpac
                                                      erica da
                                                     Serran.a
  Complex 1                           Houses         86Dec/95
     (E.G)                                           Embu-Gu
                                                      acun.a
Subtotal
1.453




                                        - 114 -

Conventional
Applications
  PMSP: IV                                      Apts                               152Feb/95
  Centenario                                                                        South
                                                                                    Zonen.a
  Chacara do                                   Houses                              220May/9
     Conde                                                                          5South
                                                                                    Zonen.a
 City Jaragua                                   apts                               128Dec/9
                                                                                    5West
                                                                                    Zonen.a
Subtotal 500



Credit Card
          Credit CardHouses or Apts 920Jun/94 to Apr 96Max: 12.600 a 16.000
"Social" renting
                      TuparoqueraHouses174Jul/95South Zone20.800
                         Elias MasApts664Dec/95South Zone23.700
                     Capao RedondoHouses180Apr/96South Zone15.100
                          AnisioHouses320Jul/96South Zone17.500
                           Jardim VitoriaApts160Mar/96Embun.a
Subtotal 1.498
Subtotal 4.381

Modifications to the resettlement policy        In the course of the Program, new housing units
were also constructed within the confines of the slums as an alternative to resettlement outside the
areas. This was frequently considered to be the best option, ie: one which made the least negative
impact on the resettled residents. The requirement for modifications to the resettlement policy
was driven by the following:

·       Plots of land that had been initially earmarked by the CDHU for building CHs were not in
the event acquired (Alaor 1 and II);

·       Pioneering concepts (credit cards, the chamamento empresarial initiative for small
undertakings, etc) failed to deliver expected returns;

·       Contracts for IBRD projects in areas that had been expropriated for the purposes of the
Program were not in the event finalised (Capão Redondon, Tuparoquera) or funding was diverted
to other public works projects (Elia Maas);

·       The typology of the CDHU Chamamento Empresarial Program was modified , ruling out
this option for dealing with slum families;


                                                 - 115 -

·       The Conjuntos Habitacionais initially put forward by the PMSP (IV Centenario, City
Jaraguá and Chácara do Conde) proved to be unviable;

·       Housing units built under the auspices of the Program were illegally occupied (`invaded')
and were rendered unavailable for resettlement purposes (CDHU: Conjunto Jardim Rosana, 572
units; and PMSP: Conjunto IV Centenario, 266 units)

Resettlements and relocations effected       Total of 2,839 families was resettled ­ 1,764 families
in Conjuntos Habitacionais) (262 under the auspices of PMSP and 1502 under CHDU), 869
families were relocated to properties constructed within the slum areas (654 by PMSP and 215 by
CHDU) and 206 families were relocated in rooms within the slums under the chessboard system
by the PMSP (127 families) and CDHU (79 families).




                                              - 116 -

Additional Annex 11. Water Quality

11.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT
Background to the Program            The main impetus for the creation of the Guarapiranga Program
stemmed from the need in the early 1990s for measures to be taken to maintain the water quality
of the Guarapiranga Basin and to seek to halt the degradation of the headwater, thereby
preserving the water body and ensuring its continued use as a public water supply.

The Program was conceived with the general objective of preserving the water quality of the
headwater, maintaining its operating conditions, controlling and bringing order to land occupation
and improving the quality of life of the resident population, particularly as regards the housing and
sanitation infrastructure.

    The specific objectives of the Guarapiranga Program included:

·       Stemming the main pollution factors affecting the natural water bodies
·       Upgrading the standards of urban occupation
·       Providing a better quality of life for the resident population
·       Improving the operating standards of the public services infrastructure
·       Environmental protection and rehabilitation
·       Containing inappropriate land occupation and encouraging compatible uses
·       Development of water treatment, water quality, land use planning, etc., technical
instruments
·       Implementing an integrated management system for the river basin

The methodology devised to prioritize the proposed interventions and to gauge the effects of the
intervention activities on water quality consisted of developing a correlation model between land
use and water quality (a `pollution matrix') based on data secured from SABESP and CETESB
monitoring exercises. From the outset of the Program this straightforward model proved to be an
indispensable impact evaluation method. It was used successfully over the years of project
execution and fine-tuned in the course of subsequent development of MQUAL.

The Program interventions were based on a systemic vision encompassing the following:

·       Activities in the territory covered by the basin
·       Activities directly affecting the natural water bodies
·       Activities in the water supply treatment system
·       Management activities

The pollution matrix highlighted the following key outcome: expectation of a 33% - 45%.
reduction of phosphorus loads entering the reservoir. As regards water quality, studies showed
(with the relatively unsophisticated technical/analysis instruments available at the time) that the
lake would remain in a mesothropic state and that continuous care and maintenance measures
were called for indefinitely.




                                                 - 117 -

 Results of the Program       Within the context of the four objectives outlined above, the results
of the Program directly related to water quality are significant:

Activities in the river basin territory     The following activities aimed to ensure compatibility
between land use and the area around the headwater covering: enlargement and optimization of
the wastewater system, slum urbanization, upgrading the urban infrastructure, collection and
disposal of solid waste and the planning and construction of parks. All these resulted in the
potential for a reduction of of 150kg of phosphorus from the 360kg entred the natural water
bodies daily. The percentages are very much in line with those planned under the original
Program.

A number of major problems remain to be addressed: (i) slum urbanization turned out to be more
complex and more demanding of resources than was estimated at preparation; (ii) although it has
been possible to prevent new areas falling under high density human occupation, population
growth in the basin has by far exceeded all expectations; (iii)          separating stormwater and
wastewater in problematic urban areas (eg: most of Guarapiranga) and has proved to be an
extremely difficult task. The challenge faced by the authorities to reduce the wastewater discharge
into the drainange systems is substantially greater than at first envisaged in the Program.

The pollutant loads entering the tributaries increased in the course of           Program operation,
although improvements were noted in some tributaries. This calls for further analysis. Since
almost all the wastewater systems came on stream as from December 2002, careful monitoring to
compare the water quality of the tributaries with the efficient operation of the wastewater system
is a priority over the next few years.

Direct activities in the natural water bodies      Given the lack of information and experience at
the time of project preparation, the Program failed to specify interventions in the natural water
bodies, recommending instead that a series of preliminary studies should be carried out. These
were based initially on an inspection of the key database containing the results of SABESP and
CETESB's monitoring activities. The studies contributed substantially towards a better
understanding of the problems as well as to the formulation of proposals to deal with them. A
number of measures are currently at the trial stage and others have been earmarked for action.

A prototype structure to inactivate nutrients by flotation has produced the first results in the
tributaries. Solutions have been proposed for reducing pollution loads in the constructed and
natural wetlands systems, already constructed and operating. On the basis of detailed efficiency
and    cost-benefit assessments, the above solutions might well apply in Guarapiranga since the
non-point and residual loads in the basin's natural drainage system constitute a major problem
requiring attention at the next phase.

As for the reservoir, progress has been made towards a more complete understanding of the
problems. Furthermore, improvements have resulted from the application of algicides. The latter
will continue to be a water management priority over the next few years in the light of problems



                                               - 118 -

of toxicity encountered in the copper compounds used. One of the major findings of the studies
carried out under the Program was the occurrence of light stratification in the reservoir resulting
in bottom anoxia. This can be closely associated with algalblooms. To overcome the problem, the
use of a forced air circulation pilot project was specified, to be used in addition for dosed
application     of  algicides.  Although    no    technical   consensus    existed   during    project
implementationfor its use, a decision should be taken to bring this pilot project on stream in a
subsequent phase of interventions.

Activities in the water supply treatment system               The Program already planned for the
adoption of advanced treatment techniques, proposing the setting up of ozonization units. The
latter proposal was subsequently amended following the completion of a preliminary treatability
study which outlined a sequence of interventions. The top priority interventions were
implemented by the Program. Activated charcoal systems were put in place and are now
operating, together with the new pre-chlorinators and the application of potassium permanganate.
The efficiency gains and operational flexibility of the treatment system proved to be substantial.
Technical upgrading of the treatment system is foreseen over the next few years.

Water Management             Water management activities revolved around the development of a
series of technical methods for monitoring and assessing water quality and its relationship with
land use in the basin. These systems/models are: the Geographical Information System (SIG) ;
the Water Quality System (SIQUA) and the Mathematical Correlation Model concerning Land
Use and Water Quality (MQUAL).

Water Quality at the End of the Program            Over recent years, water quality indicators in the
reservoir have been relatively stable, following a downturn in quality at the beginning of the
Program. The full effect of the removal of the loads resulting from Program activities will be
apparent over the coming years and the impact on the reservoir will be evaluated over this time
period.

The limnological studies carried out in the course of the Program fully confirmed the initial
analyses, viz: the delicate nature of the reservoir calls for permanent care and increased technical
expertise in its operation. the high endogenous loads (accumulated pollutants in the sludge layer)
play a decisive role in the evolution of the water quality. This signifies that that simply reducing
loads is not sufficient. It follows that the strategy that has been adopted involving long term
effort, cumulative know-how and the quest for operating improvements is the only way to ensure
that this vital headwater is preserved for potable and recreational use for the metropolitan area.

In terms of the system itself there is no doubt that water quality today is currently better. The
combination of the achievements of the Program ­ from the river basin interventions to those at
the treatment plants -     has endowed the system with efficiency and flexibility which were
unavailable before the Program commenced. This has been confirmed by the fewer number of
complaints about water quality made by consumers to the SABESP hotline.

Main Interventions in the Basin Territory             In terms of water quality, interventions in the
basin territory were of two types : (i) identification and characterization of the pollutant loads and



                                                - 119 -

(ii) the implementation and optimisation of the collection, transport and treatment infrastructure
of these loads.

The most strenous efforts in this respect concerned ways of keeping household effluents
(responsible for the bulk of pollution in the reservoir) from reaching the basin water courses.
Relevant activities involved urban rehabilitation and the enlargement and improvement of the
wastewater system.

Urban rehabilitation initiatives were focused on urbanizing groups of slums. Rehabilitation
included: the stabilization of hillsides; water supply, drainage and wastewater networks; the
removal and resettlement of slum families (eg: those in risk areas or lacking adequate sewage
disposal facilities), in the municipal districts of São Paulo, Embu, Itapecerica da Serra and
Embu-Guaçu; and the improvement of the road/street infrastructure and drainage in degraded
urban areas as well as efforts to contain erosion and ensure residents' access to garbage
collection. The result of these activities was the harnessing (collection and treatment) of the
household effluent of 80,000 people.

The wastewater system was improved by expanding wastewater collection and disposal for more
200,000 people. 58% of the population of the Basin benefited - up to 69% in the most densely
populated areas. Improvements were also carried out to existing sewerage systems. Activities
included building 385 km of wastewater collection networks, building and repairing domestic
connections, bringing on-stream       interceptors, trunk-collectors and mains and, finally, the
construction of wastewater pumping/lifting stations and wastewater Treatment Plants.

The foregoing activities allowed the average flow of collected and treated/exported wastewater to
increase from 477 l/s, as observed at the beginning of the Program to 1,000 l/s by the end .

Municipality                                Export at        Export in 1998 Export at end
                                            Beginning of                       of Program
                                            Program (l/s)    (l/s)             (l/s)
São Paulo - Left Bank                              360              460             578
São Paulo - Right Bank                             117              197             292
Embu and Itapecirica - Left Bank                     -               -               87
Total exported                                     477              557             957
Embu-Guaçu (Treatment)                               -               -               48

As regards household garbage, collection infrastructure was set up in the slums designed to afford
access to garbage collection facilities. Furthermore, initiatives were taken to bring collection,
treatment and final disposal systems into line with environmental requirements in the municipal
districts of Embu and Itapecirica da Serra. Appropriate equipment (trucks, waste bins, etc.) was
purchased to facilitate garbage collection and public cleansing activities in the Embu, Itapecirica
da Serra and Embu-Guaçu municipalities.

Six public parks were established, the banks of the Guarapiranga dam were planted with 540.000
seedlings, trees were planted in urban areas and the ciliary forests recovered. These initiatives


                                               - 120 -

ensured that such areas could be used for purposes that were compatible with the headwater such
as environmental education, leisure activities etc. The areas also enhanced the quality of the
urban environment, with a corresponding reduction in the pollutant loads.

As a result, effluents reaching the reservoir were reduced, contributing to the maintenance of
water quality. The aforementioned activities are of course not sufficient to guarantee water
quality. The wastewater infrastructure needs to be expanded and optimised in order to increase
collection and disposal of the loads. Solutions also need to be found for reducing the remaining
loads in the water courses and to foster further activities for enhancing operational control of the
system.

Main Interventions in the Water Bodies               The systemization of water quality and land use
monitoring data at the beginning of the Program led to the formation of a critical mass of
information that was able to identify and subsequently foster follow-up discussion and detailed
planning of the direct intervention activities in the water bodies. Activities included the following:
water quality monitoring; a limnological diagnosis; specific studies such as quantification of the
purification capacity of wetlands; evaluation of the non-point loads; nutrient de-activation in the
tributaries; forced air circulation; and control in the application of algicides.

In addition to increasing knowledge on the physical and biological processes that occur in the
water bodies, these activities sought to control nutrient availability in the water mass. Priority was
focused on phosphorus since its presence had been identified as an inhibitor of large algal blooms
(especially of the `blue-green' group), which constitute the principal risk to being able to
continually use the reservoir as a raw water source for potable supplies to acceptable permitted
standards.

Monitoring of water quality is carried out by SABESP and CETESB. The data collected
demonstrate the evolution of the phosphorus concentrations entering the reservoir (re: SABESP
monitoring). Average phosphorus concentration increased up to 1999 but began to recede
subsequently. It is not yet possible to identify the benefits of the reduction of the pollution loads
as the result of initiatives taken under the Program.

Naturally-occurring resolubilization of phosphorus from the bottom sediments of the reservoir
plays an important role in the enrichment of the water. Research shows that the reservoir
sediments appear to contain high amounts of phosphorus and it is a distinct possibility that the
internal load of the reservoir takes over the process of eutrofysation when the external load
decreases.

This invites the following prognosis: after the phosphorus loads brought down by the tributaries
have been reduced, returning the reservoir to a more favorable state in terms of algal blooms,
other interventions need to be implemented gradually, and with solid monitoring and evaluation
systems in place, on account of the part played by the internal phosphorus load. In view of this,
monitoring of the dynamics of resolubilisation of sedimentary phosphorus should be undertaken.




                                                  - 121 -

·       Complementary studies related to water quality (UGP 93-94) assembled for the first time
data covering the tributaries, the reservoir and potable treatability of the Alto da Boa Vistawater
treatment plant (WTP). Direct intervention activities were identified, discussed and plans drawn
up in detail aimed at affecting water quality improvements and ensuring enhanced safety of
operation. The key conclusions and intervention activities that were not accounted for in the
original Program are, inter alia:
·       Establishment of nutrient de-activation systems at the mouth of the tributaries as a device
for controlling loads entering the reservoir, particularly loads of non-point (diffuse) origin;
·       Controlling algicides dosing/application in the reservoir, including bench tests, dosing
optimization and monitoring results and impact;

·       Examining the links between thermal stratification and anaerobiosis in the reservoir by the
use of "iso-oxygen" and "iso-temperature" curve analysis methodology;

·       The use of forced air circulation to inhibit the algal blooms (which otherwise cause odor
and bad taste) during anaerobiosis periods at the bottom of the reservoir;

·       Alteration of the PAC dosage point in the WTP , thereby raising efficiency by extending
its contact time with the raw water.
·       Using a pilot WTP for the evaluation of treatment alternatives, including ozonization.

The limnological diagnosis (SMA 96-98) was based on a specific monitoring exercise which over
a one-year period increased the systematic monitoring of the basin. This included sediment,
ecotoxicity and pollutant analyses. The data secured from the monitoring exercises was
systematically organised, leading to key recommendations for managing the reservoir:

·       Reduction of the external load (mainly household wastewater) as the first step towards
recovery and improvement of water quality;
·       Adoption of urban containment measures in the basin;
·       Closer monitoring and control of point and non-point loads;
·       Establishment of wetlands and/or `pre-dams' for reducing loads;
·       Finding alternatives to copper sulphate for algal inhibition in the light of the hazards
involved in using this algaecide;
·       Adoption of water treatment technologies to ensure removal of possible toxins;
·       The use of forced air circulation was considered inappropriate for the reservoir;
·       Fine-tuning phytoplankton analysis methodology in order to obtain quantitative data to
improve understanding of the dynamics of the phytoplankton community;
·       Surveys of fish consumption of toxins to determine risk doses;
·       The study of biological control of algae through increased planktotrophic fish farming.

Diffuse (non-point) pollution load evaluation studies (SMA 96-98) sought to quantify loads
entering the water courses through continuous monitoring in seven sub-basins. Structures were
installed for flow-measurement and collection of water samples. This method produced data on
load size according to the source and time of year (see table below). Given the very good results



                                                - 122 -

obtained, it is recommended that this methodology should be systematically used in monitoring
the basin.




Type of Source           Dry period Rainy period           Annual
                                                           average
Domestic wastewater          96%              42%              62%

Urban Diffuse
(non-point) load              3%              40%              27%

Rural Diffuse load            1%              18%              11%


The studies of constructed and natural wetlands (UGP 98-99) were based on water quality
sampling campaigns along the Embu Mirim and Parelheiros rivers under different hydrological
conditions.    These included the use of tracers. A number of other intervention alternatives
designed to guarantee the preservation of the wetlands and enlarge their purifying capacities were
also put forward. The constructed wetlands option was also examined as an alternative for
reconstituting and increasing pollutant removal capacity at the inflow points of the reservoir. In
this respect, a pilot study for the Bacia de Bonito Pedras was developed. It is recommended that
these studies should proceed and a constructed wetland system installed.

In addition to the `wetlands' nutrient containment pilot project, structures for de-activating
nutrients in creeks has been an identified requirement since the beginning of the Program. For this
purpose, a removal unit was set up in the Guavirituba creek (SABESP 2000). This unit was
originally conceived to extract nutrients by sedimentation but this was later replaced by the
flotation technique. Ongoing monitoring is required to assess the efficiency of the unit for
phosphorus removal and identify water quality changes in the reservoir.

Given that anaerobiosis in the bottom of the reservoir is responsible for the highest
resolubilization of sedimentary phosphorus and the resulting increase of blue-green algalblooms, a
forced air circulation pilot project was recommended. This did not materialize due to problems
with the bidding process. It is recommended that use of this reservoir management technique be
re-evaluated in order determine its effectiveness and technical feasibility.

High copper levels have been identified in the sediment of the reservoir, mainly along the stretch
near to the raw water intake. The copper originates from the algaecides used to combat the
continuing algalblooms. SABESP has developed an algicides application program which includes
rationalising spatial and temporal application together with an assessment of the performance of
different algaecides - resulting in substantial reductions of amounts of algaecides used.

The series of studies and initiatives has enhanced knowledge of the ecosystem of the reservoir and
its tributaries. Monitoring and evaluation of water management activities need to be intensified. It
is, for example, recommended that better communication between the technical staff of the


                                                 - 123 -

various water management institutions should be encouraged in order to spread the benefits of the
information and experience acquired. This would help to underpin water management decisions
especially regarding major alterations in water quality ( eg: the proposed transfer of water from
the Taquacetuba river to the Guarapiranga reservoir).

Main Interventions in the Water Treatment Plant            The purpose of the activities undertaken
in the WTP was to identify, recommend and establish technologies and operational procedures to
ensure effective treatment of the Guarapiranga water, for distribution in accordance with potable
water standards.
Treatability studies were carried out with a pilot WTP (SABESP 97-98) installed at the Boa Vista
ETA. These studies basically focused on gaining maximum benefit from the treatability process
aimed at the removal of the compounds MIB and Geosmina (affecting water taste and odour).

A number of different treatability processes were examined from a technical and economic point
of view. Options included oxidization, coagulation/flocculation, decantation, filtration and
absorption through activated charcoal. Implementation alternatives were classified in three
time-frames: short, medium and long-term, depending on the development of water quality in the
headwater.

The systems involving removal of the compounds causing taste and odor problems and
pre-oxidization (short-term recommendations) were brought on stream with Program funding: (i)
powdered activated carbon (SABESP 1.999); (ii) chlorination and (iii) application of potassium
permanganate (SABESP 2.000). The pilot WTP was also used to assess the quality of PAC
suppliers (SABESP 2.000) from a technical/cost standpoint.

The implementation of these systems led to substantial improvements in the treatability process at
Alto de Boa Vista WTP. This enabled SABESP to increase treatment efficiency and the quantity
and quality of the water supplied to consumers, even during a prolonged drought (towards the
end of project implementation) when extremely low water levels were registered in the reservoir.

Technical Instruments for Management             The Geographical Information System-SIG (UGP
95-98) provided the basic information used in the land use/water pollutants studies. 1:10.000-
scale SIG maps (cartographic, natural environment and socio-economic) were indispensable for
understanding the different land occupation and intervention scenarios in the basin. They also
made a useful contribution to discussion in the institutions and executing agencies involved in
project implementation as well as in the quantification of pollutants arising from land occupation.
The purpose of the Water Quality Information System-SIQUA (SABESP 97-2.000) was to
organize the data and information generated by different bodies in a networked computer system
and ensure more efficient water quality control as a result. The system enables users to access
water quality data on-line, to consult the database and to interpret results with the aid of statistical
analyses, graphs and reports. This system, already in operation in SABESP and being installed
for other users,   is the main instrument used for following up the results of water quality
monitoring in the reservoir, tributaries and WTP.

The key function of the mathematical model "Land Use and Water Quality"-MQUAL (UGP



                                               - 124 -

95-96) is to identify linkages between land use, land occupation and land management in the basin
and the quality of water supplied for public consumption. The overall aim is to assist
decision-making and to provide optimal information and expertise regarding the implications of
each option available in the management of the water system. MQUAL aims to furnish responses
to the following:

·       the future quality of the headwater (occupation of the river basin, installment of sanitation
systems and the introduction of control activities) in the event of hypothetical alternatives being
deployed;
·       new land-use policies, clearly identifying the specific contributions to water quality by
each land-use category, including priority preservation and recovery areas;
·       granting licenses to large firms for waste discharge in the basin and employing an
appropriate instrument to assess the impact of their activities on water quality;
·       proposed new measures of environmental monitoring, based upon detailed knowledge of
the basin.

MQUAL was conceived as a planning and management instrument. Its structure was designed to
effect gradual upgrades as new information and knowledge became available and capable of being
used. A forward-looking strategy was adopted to evaluate relevant future developments in line
with ecosystem knowledge available from existing data.

The technical instruments were (and continue to be) introduced with satisfactory results, although
users need to familiarize themselves with their use and broaden dissemination of results. The
water basin managers are responsible for encouraging full use of the instruments, which in turn
could have a substantial positive impact on water quality management.

Points Suggested for Recommendations

·       To combine removal of the concentrated pollutant loads with (in particular) slum
urbanization and the introduction of wastewater systems in densely populated areas.
·       High levels of efficiency in the operation of the `separated' (ie: wastewater
andstormwater) approach in urban areas such as Guarapiranga have proved more difficult to
achieve than initially anticipated. A key priority of the next phase must be to focus on improving
operating standards and better monitoring of the separate collection systems, together with water
quality monitoring in the water courses of the respective sub-basins.
·       An ongoing strategic objective is to render the system sustainable over the long-term. This
depends on: (i) bringing the new territory management system into line with the state law applying
specifically to the basin; (ii) the introduction of measures to encourage use of the basin for
purposes that are compatible with the headwater; and (iii) working towards metropolitan housing
policies more broadly to reverse the massive population migration to fragile outlying areas as in
the case of the upper reaches of Guaripiranga.
·       Controlling the non-point loads and residual wastewater loads flowing into the natural
water bodies calls for tributary-targeted load-reducing initiatives to be boosted during the next
phase. It is vital to monitor the prototypes already in operation, in order to secure efficiency and
cost-benefit parameters that will form the basis of future decisions.



                                                 - 125 -

·       Given the need to control internal loads, reservoir management techniques will be of
significant future importance. Minimization of toxic substances must be a priority. Techniques
such as forced air circulation need to be re-evaluated in order to assess whether pilot projects are
indeed required. Monitoring/studying the new conditions of the reservoir resulting from the
transfer of waters of the Taquacetuba is also needed.
·       The introduction of advanced treatment techniques in the WTP should continue, subject to
completion of the necessary preliminary detailed cost-benefit analyses.
·       The use and upgrading of water management technical tools should be encouraged so that
they become truly effective instruments for the purposes for which they were designed.




                                               - 126 -

11.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPONENT
The environmental benefits from activities undertaken by the Program have led to improvements
in the sanitation sphere particularly as regards the water quality of the region's water bodies.

While the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba (MAC) is fortunate in possessing an extensive natural
drainage network, measures were needed to ensure preservation of the headwaters and the
recovery of a number of polluted rivers.

The environmental benefits were measured against two benchmarks: increased oxygen levels in
the water and the reduction of the quantities of organic matter discharged into the rivers,
measured by Biochemical Oxygen Demand. The PROSAM (Environmental Sanitation Program of
the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba) negotiation was based on a diagnosis of river conditions in
MAC. Meanwhile, the environmental objectives of the Program were formulated with a view to
achieving certain water quality indicators in the River Iguaçu.

Simulations were developed using the SIMOX model (CEPIS, 1973)1, taking into account
projected growth for the area, with and without implantation of the Program. The results showed
that in the event of Program not being implemented, the most critical stretches of the River
Iguaçu would possess dissolved oxygen concentrations of under 1 mg/l, while levels would rise to
approximately 4 mg/l if the Program were put into operation as initially planned. Without the
Program, the levels of biological oxygen demand (BOD) would surpass 100 mg/l, whereas with
the Program2 they would be at around 25 mg/l . The indicators presented in CONAMA
Resolution 20/86 were adopted as a desirable target in this respect. These indicators specified that
dissolved oxygen should exceed 5 mg/l and the biochemical oxygen demand should be less than 5
mg/l (although in reality the BOD simulations have come nowhere close to the levels specified).

The above improvements play an important role in the recovery of the rivers and reduction of
water treatment costs, as well as in boosting actual water availability. A number of PROSAM
activities were designed with these factors in mind. While the bulk of the activities had no direct
effect on water quality improvement they were indirectly responsible, as catalysers of more direct
activities, for a number of improvements.

The impact on water quality of the various activities can be summarised as follows:

Protection of Headwaters: activities to preserve areas where most of the water for the MAC
originates. These included plans for constructing parks and reforesting areas contiguous to the
rivers (helping to preserve the flood-meadows and avoid erosion and the silting-up of river
banks). Plans were also made to preserve agricultural land by avoiding soil loss and controlling
pollution from the use of pesticides. Other important activities to protect the headwaters involved
land re-ordering and efforts to control land occupation and land use in general - through the
halting of irregular settlements, inducing orderly resettlement and taking corrective measures in
potentially polluting settlements.


Recovery of Rivers and Degraded Areas: recovery activities involved the building of wastewater



                                                - 127 -

networks and treatment plants, correction and improvement of the drainage capacity of rivers and
galleries and enlargement and improvement of the urban solid waste collection, removal and
disposal systems. As a result, inappropriate situations were corrected and point and non-point
source pollution of the region's rivers reduced.

Management of the River Basin: activities aimed at developing a detailed, adequately-funded
water resources management model supported by a solid institutional framework, avoiding the
need for new loans/investments, and with a clear mandate to correct further environmental
problems caused by population growth in the area. This model formed the basis of the State
Water Resources Law and its complementary legal/technical architecture and provided a new
concept of water resources management applicable to Paraná State as a whole.

Once the components of the Program had been defined, details of how its effect on water quality
would be monitored (by systematic checking of the quality indicators) were set out in the
Contract Document.

During the initial negotiations for selecting evaluation indicators for the Program, three
parameters for determining water quality were decided jointly with the World Bank:

·       Dissolved Oxygen;

·       Biochemical Oxygen Demand; and

·       Total Coliforms.
Targets were set for these parameters over the period of Program execution (Table 1).

Environmental Indicators ­ Loan Contract/Addendum 7              Table 1
Parameter   Executive           Unit       1992   1993     1994     1995   1996    1997   Target
            Agency              (a)
Total       COMEC               NMP/10      -        -    >20.000  20.000 10.000  5.000      5.000
coliforms                       0 ml
Dissolved   COMEC               mg/l        -        -       -       2       2       6         6
oxygen
Biochemical COMEC               Mg/l        -        -      15       10      5       3         3
Oxygen
Demand
Obs: (a) "mg/l" = milligrams per liter. NMP/100 ml = most probable amount in 100 milliliters.

COMEC (MAC Coordination Office), an executive body, was initially responsible for liaison with
SUREHMA (Superintendency for Water Resources and the Environment), the state body
responsible at the time for monitoring the environmental indicators.

SUREHMA was abolished in 1995 following administrative restructuring and its functions
absorbed by SUDERHSA (Superintendency for the Development of Water Resources) and IAP
(Paraná Environmental Institute). SUDERHSA took on responsibility for inter alia the oversight
and quality control of surface and underground waters and IAP assumed charge of environmental



                                              - 128 -

inspection/enforcement including the monitoring of water quality in the State of Paraná.

The Loan Agreement with IBRD does not stipulate a timeframe or location for monitoring the
above indicators. SUREHMA however established a collection point (maintained by IAP) at the
mouth of the River Belém (ETE SANEPAR - AI20). During the life of the Program, sampling
periods tended to vary but a maximum of one sample per month was taken. Since the above
targets concern concentration data it would have been necessary to specify a reference flow value.
This was not in fact done.

In the June 1996 Half Term Program Review, efforts were made to correct this omission given
that the data was based on long-term average flow in a single location. Revision and rescheduling
of the final targets was also requested and the parameter "total coliforms" was substituted for
"fecal coliforms", as the former was highly restrictive in terms of the final value presented (see
Table 2). Since the number of total coliforms is generally 3 to 5 times higher than that of fecal
coliforms, analyses of the latter should present values in some cases lower than 2.000 NMP/100
ml. This target for urban rivers is overly rigid when current pollution levels in large cities are
taken into account. Furthermore, indicators warning of the presence of fecal coliforms assume
greater importance when measuring the quality of the water body.


Environmental Indicators - Half Term Review /Addendum 7                            Table 2
Parameter Executive        Unit       199    1994      1995      1996   1997    1998 Final
             body          (a)         3                                                Target

Total        SUDERHS NMP/1             -       -      >20.00 10.000 8.000 5.000 5.000
coliforms    A             00 ml                         0
Dissolved    SUDERHS mg/l              -       -         -        2        3      4      4
oxygen       A
Biochemic SUDERHS mg/l                 -       -        15        15      10     10      10
al Oxygen A
Demand

Obs: (a) "mg/l" = milligrams per liter. NMP/100 ml = most probable amount in 100 milliliters.

A further amendment resulted in relocating the collection point from the mouth of the River
Belém (AI20) to Ponte Umbarazinho (AI24), since the construction of the overflow channel of
the River Iguaçu was likely to cause flow variations at the former point and interfere in the
sampling results. The new point was selected below the junction of the two channels, where it is
expected that the effects will in due course be reflected in the parameters.
For water quality control, the Dissolved Oxygen (DO) indicator is the least susceptible to
variations caused by the testing methods, precisely because this is determined in situ. However, in
common with other methods, this procedure is subject to climatic and hydrological fluctuations
eg: since concentration parameters are employed, these are directly linked to the amount of water
draining off at the time the sample is collected or read.




                                               - 129 -

The urban river basins tend to reflect more rapidly the fluctuations caused by rainfall variations
given the presence of sizeable impermeable areas. Water quality is obviously affected - marked by
a rise in pollutants which would otherwise be filtered through and/or retained in the ground.

Although our system of wastewater disposal is founded on the concept of "total separation"
(different conduits for rainwater drainage and sewage disposal) and despite the efforts of
SANEPAR and of the Curitiba municipal authorities, so-called "secret discharges" (ie: use of
ordinary drainage systems for discharging sewerage) are acknowledged as a fact.

These practices are however becoming less common as the result of infrastructural improvements,
environmental education and intensive inspection and enforcement measures. Many of the effects
of these discharges can nevertheless still be detected in the water quality, ie: high levels of BOD,
low levels of DO and high coliform concentrations. These levels are directly influenced by the
quantity of water into which the discharges are made. During periods of high rainfall pollution
levels tend to be less critical than in the drier months.

Draught can also affect water quality. Sediment and pollutants tend to accumulate during long dry
periods and are washed down with the first rains. Water samples analysed following the first
rainfalls are therefore likely to present more critical values than those taken under normal
conditions. Subsequent rainfall will lead to more water available for dilution. When pollutants
have had insufficient time to accumulate in the water the samples tend to indicate better results
than under normal conditions. Furthermore, if the same pollution loads are maintained, different
climatic conditions (temperature and atmospheric pressure) will present different water quality
parameters for the same collection point, given that climate has a direct influence on the
associated chemical and biological processes.

Statistical analysis is better able to resolve the problem of estimating the average value of a
parameter at a given point.

A number of changes in the number of samples to be tested and in the sample collection points
was proposed 3. It was suggested that a total of 12 samples a year in a single location was
insufficient to obtain an estimate reflecting the average conditions of the Alto Iguaçu stretch.

Based on statistical data, it was suggested that other collection points and alternative sampling
frequencies should be introduced. This would produce an estimate of the averages resulting from
PROSAM        activities,   using    confidence    level  (a   traditional  statistical concept). In
sampling-definition studies, the employment of 95% confidence value estimates is the norm,
although two other percentages were in fact used (90% and 80%).

For fecal coliforms, the evaluations can be estimated on the basis of Resolution CONAMA 20/86
provisions which entail a rejection rate of up to 20% of total samples (never less than five a
month). The maximum value of the samples not discarded is the value considered as
representative of the number of fecal coliforms in the chosen location .

The statistical procedures proposed sought to respond to the following question: what number of



                                                  - 130 -

samples was needed in the course of a year to obtain an estimate of the average value of a water
quality parameter with a given confidence level?

The behavior of the parameter arises from the quantification of its average and population
standard deviation on the basis of a historical data series going back to 1992. In this way it is
possible to arrive at an approximate population average with a probability of success (confidence
level) in accordance with confidence limits (Figure 1).




Figure 1 - Normal Distribution and Confidence Limits (upper)

This reasoning presupposes that:

·       the data analyzed in the case of the BOD and DO series are adjusted to one normal
distribution;
·       the samples are not interdependent;

The first premise was verified by analysing the series of data and applying a hypothesis test,
verified positively by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov criterion.




The second assertion is valid, since it is not assumed that the fluctuations in the values are
strongly influenced by the flows, which in the case of the Iguaçu River basin and and tributaries
have no marked seasonal variation.

According to Sanders et. al. (1983) 4 , this leads to the ratio between the population variance (·2),
sampling variance (s2) and the number of samples (n), given by Equation 1:


                s2 = 2
                      n        (1)

producing a confidence interval as follows:



                                                 - 131 -

               [x - Z s,x + Z s  ]
                       2        2      (2)

               where,
                                                    1   n
                                                        xi
                x is the sampling average given by  n  i=1  ;

                Z
                  2 is the standardized normal variable expressing the probability of a      given
          confidence level;

              s is the standard sampling deviation ;

With the population average (·) in terms of the specified limits:


                x - Z s  µ  x + Z s
                      2              2        (3)

Substituting equation (1) for equation (3) and rearranging the terms to provide the number of
samples needed , we have the following:

               n     Z     2
                        2
                    µ  - x     (4)

This expression is valid for a sampling location and a sampling parameter.
The denominator of this expression is numerically equal to half a confidence interval (R), the
specification of which is more common in terms of the sampling studies.

In the case of PROSAM, where the sample is collected and two tests are carried out with
different parameters, Sanders et. al. (1983) suggest the adoption of the following expression:

                1  1  µK     =  1 K
                                  R
                2 K
                           i           j
                      i=1       K j=1         (5)

where:

             K = the number of parameters;

             · = the population averages of the parameters;

                                                         R j = 2  Z   

               R j= the confidence intervals, given by              2  n .

Adapted to the PROSAM case, where DO and BOD need to be controlled, the minimum number


                                               - 132 -

of samples is given by:


                n = 2  2  Z
                              (OD + DBO )2
                            2 (µOD + µDBO )           (6)

An estimate can thus be obtained regarding the number of samples needed to provide a value for
the average of the parameter in the location, with a given confidence level.

Other collection points have been added to that already used (Ponte Umbarazinho (AI24)) in the
monitoring process : ETE SANEPAR (AI20), Ponte da BR-277 (AI04) and Guajuvira (AI14).
These IAP stations, located along the River Iguaçu, are well placed to demonstrate the effects of
pollution development along the stretch which traverses the Curitiba Metropolitan Area.

The minimum number of samples needing collection over one year to fulfil the selected
parameters is shown at Table 3:




Annual Number of Samples                                                      Table 3
          Station                             Annual number of samples for confidence level
                                                                    95%90%80%
          AI04-Ponte BR-277                                             16127
          AI20-ETE SANEPAR                                              826035
          AI24-Ponte Umbarazinho                                     513622
          AI14-Guajuvira                                                342415




It was decided to use a confidence level of 90% and associated frequencies. With the numbers of
minimum samples, after calculating the average values of the parameters (temporal average), the
data presented an average value for the area (spatial average), weighted by the incremental basins
at each station.

The information obtained for the stations selected for monitoring by the Program raised the
question of how to combine the average values of the parameters at the different stations into a
single value representative of the area as a whole.

To overcome this difficulty, it was proposed to weight the average values at each station on the
basis of the incremental areas of the basin. This proposal is sketched out at Figure 2:




                                               - 133 -

Figure 2 - Stations and Areas

The medium value of the parameter is given by Equation 1:


                     xN

                          iAi
                x =  i=1

                       A
                       N

                           i
                      i=1       (7)

For the Alto Iguaçu, the incremental areas are as follows (Table 4):

Incremental Areas                                                     Table 4

           Station                                             Incremental Area (km2)
           AI04 - Ponte BR-277                                                  110
          AI20 - ETE SANEPAR                                                  704
          AI24 - Ponte Umbarazinho                                            516
          AI14 - Guajuvira                                                    974
           Total                                                               2.304



Taking into account the incremental area as a weighting factor is reasonable insofar as it concerns
(i) the effects of self-cleaning - the bigger the area, the more substantial the amount of runoff in
the river channel/ the more effective the cleaning process and (ii) the increased load of point or
non-point pollution. Larger areas obviously account for bigger pollution loads.

Equation 7 can thus be rewritten in the light of weighting factors (Equation 8):

                     N
                x =  xi fi
                    i=1

                onde fi =  Ai
                           A    (8)



                                                - 134 -

The weighting factors (fi) for each station are presented below (Table 5):

Weighting Factors                                               Table 5

Station                                                         Factor
AI04 - Ponte BR-277                                               0,0477
AI20 - ETE SANEPAR                                                0,3056
AI24 - Ponte Umbarazinho                                          0,2240
AI14 - Guajuvira                                                  0,4227
Total                                                             1,0000



The average value for the area determined on the basis of the above is in line with the objectives
of the Program as set forth in the Loan Agreement.

Using this approach, an effort was made to minimize the influence of climatic and hydrological
factors by assessing a given number of samples throughout the year. The above-mentioned factors
tended to be repeated. They therefore complied, year upon year, with the targets specified in the
Program.

Annual average values were obtained which exhibited the trends of water quality parameters
during the years that the Program was in operation. Table 6 gives the averages for each year
(although pre-1998 sampling frequencies conforming to suggested statistical criteria were not
available).




                                               - 135 -

Annual averages                                                                          Table 6
                                Year          Dissolved Oxygen (mg/l)        Biochemical Oxygen Demand (mg/l)
                                1992                        1,54                              20,6
                                1993                        2,40                              14,6
                                1994                        1,33                              29,2
                                1995                        2,53                              17,2
                                1996                        2,65                              10,7
                                1997                        2,21                              13,6
                                1998                        3,76                              10,1
                                1999                        2,27                              16,0
                                2000                        2,02                              22,8
                                2001                        2,58                              12,2
                                2002                      1,68                                31,9



The values shown in Figures 3 and 4 also reflect the objectives of the Program and the values
which comply with specifications of CONAMA Resolution 20/86 (Class 2).

Average Annual DO values                                                              Figure 3


                         6.00


                                Limite de Classe 2 (CONAMA/86)
                         5.00



                         4.00
   (mg/l)
                        2
         O                      Meta Final do Programa
          de
                         3.00



                         2.00
            Concentração


                         1.00



                         0.00
                            1991   1992       1993     1994   1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001   2002  2003

                                                                          Ano




                                                                   - 136 -

Average Annual BOD values                                                                   Figure 4

                      35.00



                      30.00



                      25.00


     (mg/l)
           O         220.00

            de

                      15.00


              Demanda         Meta Final do Programa
                      10.00


                              Limite de Classe 2 (CONAMA/86)
                       5.00



                       0.00
                          1991     1992       1993    1994    1995  1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003

                                                                           Ano

It is clear from the above graphs that the trend towards improvement was reversed from 1998
onwards.

A further line of study adopted during the Program was to examine river-based water quality
models in order to try and understand movements in the environmental patterns of the area,
following the example of similar activity carried out at the diagnosis phase.

The SIMOX Model was utilised in 1994 in support of the decision5 in subproject PMA-03
indicating which territorial re-ordering activities in the headwaters areas merited highest priority in
the sub-basins. The river basins of the Piraquara and Pequeno Rivers were selected as those best
suited to infrastructure development. In terms of improvement of water quality, the activities in
the basins forming the Iraí reservoir evidently produced better indices of water quality.

The population of the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba increased substantially (this was not
accounted for when the PROSAM activities were first mooted). At the same time, the River
Piraquara basin was the target for a number of irregular settlements given its convenient location
as a base for people working in Curitiba and the surrounding area. A number of industries were
selected for location in the basin of the Pequeno River. These may not contribute directly to the
increase in pollution but do so indirectly on account of (i) their location in irregular areas and (ii)
their role as potential magnets for inward migration from the surrounding areas.

Irregular land occupations in the metropolitan areas have demonstrated the substantial difficulties



                                                                   - 137 -

faced by governments to limit water-related environmental pollution. While government
intervention has been generally correct and efficient, official activities have nevertheless failed to
remain in tune with the dynamics of the process. As a result, these activities have not achieved the
desired objectives or effectiveness. It is to be hoped that the measures taken to improve water
resources management in accordance with the State Water Resources' Law will give a
much-needed boost to these activities, taking account of the gravity of the environmental
problems requiring action. In addition to official management, it is to be hoped that activities in
support of overall planning and of the present management model will lead to enhanced
involvement by society in efforts to bring water pollution under control.

The implementation of hydrodynamic simulation and water quality models of the River Iguaçu,
developed in SUDERHSA under the aegis of subproject PEB-08.2 (Simulation Models for Water
Resources) , synthesized in model MIKE 11, constitute an important analytical tool for MAC
planning purposes. A demonstration of the capacity of these instruments for analysing the
problems of the MAC and prioritizing solutions was carried out in the Alto Iguaçu Basin
anti-Pollution Plan6. This was a broad-based and complex scheme aimed at (i) reviewing the
problems of human occupation expansion in the basin and the resulting demands on water
resources and (ii) indicating the most beneficial investment inputs to maintain water quality.
Geoprocessing techniques available to official bodies such as COMEC and SUDERHSA will
assist in drafting development plans and should allow rapid analysis of the impacts on water
quality while at the same time avoiding erroneous and less-than-effective resource preservation
activities.

Modelling of water quality was also an important tool in the formulation of the methods designed
for granting authorisation for water use. The WHICH-2E Model, made available to SUDERHSA
under the State Water Resources Law, was used to gauge the impacts on water quality by users
granted licenses in the Alto Iguaçu basins. It therefore became possible to verify the uses to
which water was being put, from both a quantitative and qualitative standpoint, by licensees. This
approach is technically the most appropriate and represents an important and innovative concept
in national terms. Falling within the remit of the State Water Resources Law, plans are being
made to incorporate it in the proposed PROSAM `legal diploma'.

Doubts have been raised about whether PROSAM activities were genuinely effective in containing
water pollution, enhancing water quality and improving consumer supply. In addition to verifying
water quality parameters (done by regular monitoring) a way to approach the problem is through
the use of water quality model simulations. In 2002 a study attempted to ascertain the situation of
the MAC in the event of PROSAM activities not being implemented. This study was based on
water quality simulations using the WHICH-2E Model. Population growth was simulated in the
main sub-basins of the Alto Iguaçu and water quality checks were made along the river's main
water course.

Improvements in the water quality are checked against the Water Quality Index (WQI), initially
introduced by the National Sanitation Foundation and adopted by SUDERHSA to measure the
quality of water bodies in the State of Paraná8. This index provides a joint assessment of a series
of water quality variables, resulting in a rating for the water body overall. Figures 5 and 6 indicate



                                                - 138 -

the WQIs in the River Iguaçu for 1999 and 2020 (with and without PROSAM).

Quantifying PROSAM activities in 1999 conditions                    Figure 5


                           Parâmetros de Qualidade da Água - 1999 - Rio Iguaçu


        100


        90


        80                                                                  IQAs sem PROSAM


        70
                                                                            IQAs PROSAM

        60


        50
    IQAs


        40


        30


        20


        10


         0
           0    10        20        30        40           50        60          70       80    90

                                           Distância do Iraí (km)




                                           - 139 -

Quantifying PROSAM activities in 1999 conditions                                                                         Figure 5


                                                      Parâmetros de Qualidade da Água - 1999 - Rio Iguaçu


      100


       90  ohniziarI              oneuqeP                            avaugniri
                                                                              M
       80                                                                                                                  IQAs sem PROSAM


       70              latimlaP          abutA  méleB     ahlidaP                                 iugiraB        anúassaP                    edreV
                                                                                                                           IQAs PROSAM

       60


       50
  IQAs


       40


       30


       20


       10


        0
         0                      10                   20             30               40                  50    60               70        80          90

                                                                                   Distância do Iraí (km)




Quantifying PROSAM activities in 2020 conditions                                                                         Figure 6




                                                                                       - 140 -

                                                       Parâmetros de Qualidade da Água - 2020 - Rio Iguaçu


       100


        90  ohniziarI              oneuqeP                             avaugniri                                           IQAs sem PROSAM


                                                                                M
        80
                        lati
        70                  mlaP          abutA  méleB     ahlidaP                                  iugiraB        anúassaPIQAs PROSAM        edreV


        60


        50
   IQAs


        40


        30


        20


        10


         0
          0                      10                   20             30                40                  50    60               70       80         90

                                                                                     Distância do Iraí (km)




These graphs demonstrate that the implementation of PROSAM brought significant gains to the
area but without producing a definitive solution to the water pollution problems of the
Metropolitan Area of Curitiba. Investments and activities need be taken forward on a continuing
basis in order to ensure sustainable development with minimum environmental degradation.
Participation by civil society is also indispensable for meeting the principal objectives eg: better
sanitary conditions ­ including correct use of the wastewater and drainage networks - in urban
areas. Finally, the firms holding sanitation service concessions should                                                               encourage the local
population in the correct usage of the sewage/drainage networks. These concessionaires have a
prime responsibility to minimize the effects of pollution on the environment and - in line with the
recommendations of the river basin's established management system ­ to reduce the need for
further major investments to contain water pollution.




                                                                                         - 141 -

Additional Annex 12. Positive Impacts Resulting from Construction of the Irai Dam

 The main positive impacts resulting from building the Iraí Dam and filling the respective
 reservoir ( ie: flood control and public water supply) were highlighted by the occurrence of
 natural phenomena during the final stage of construction of the dam. A brief background
 description of the features of the dam precedes the description and quantification of these
 impacts.

 Introduction       The Iraí Dam Project, drawn up by COBA for SANEPAR, was accompanied
 by a prior environmental impact study of the dam construction and filling of the reservoir.
 Potentially negative impacts in the course of construction included exploitation of existing
 deposits and problems arising from filling the reservoir (eg: water quality).

 The natural phenomena which occurred at the end of the construction stage drew attention to
 and greatly enhanced the positive impacts of the project. The latter concerned mainly flood
 control along the downstream River Iraí and improved public water supply for the population
 of the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba.

 Other positive impacts of the project were the establishment of a leisure facility in the area (the
 reservoir/lake), the introduction of environmental education conservation programmes and the
 opportunity to conduct studies on various species of fauna as well as on archaeological
 discoveries in the areas adjoining the reservoir.

 Brief Description of the Dam         The Iraí Dam is located on the River Iraí (a tributary of the
 River Iguaçu) , near to the city of Curitiba. The Iguaçu is one of the largest rivers in the state
 of Paraná, with a water basin of 113 km2 to the north-east of the Metropolitan Area of
 Curitiba. Annual average precipitation and flow are respectively 1350mm and 47.3 hm3. The
 reservoir covers an area of 14.6 km2 and possesses a detention storage volume of 58hm3.

 The purpose of the Iraí Dam is essentially to increase the water supply for Curitiba, regularize
 the river flow and protect downstream areas from flooding. Its discharges also help surface
 water to be captured downstram of the dam. The dam has an outflow of 1500 l/s with a 95%
 guarantee. The construction is 20m high, with a crest width of 1220m of which 1000m
 correspond to a surface water table flow zone. Construction of the dam involved overcoming a
 series of difficult geo-technical conditions at the design stage and concerning the definition and
 installation of its hydraulic capacity, as well as problems that arose during actual construction.

 The valley in which the dam has been built consists of large amounts of heterogenous material
 ­ featuring eg: widespread low resistance and high permeability/deformity levels. The rock
 substrata is very close to the surface of the central area of the flow (at about 5-6 metres down),
 surrounded laterally by depths of up to 30-35 meters. In the flow area, a layer of soft alluvial
 clay about 3-4 metres thick is also in evidence, covered with organic material (peat) and
 overlying polluted sand and residual migmatitic soil over the rock mass.

 The materials that were planned to be used as ballast in the construction of the dam were to be



                                               - 142 -

found in deposits on the two sides of the Guaribotuba and Tinguis formations. These possessed
a highly varied granulometric composition and consistency given that the bulk of content in
natural water was around 10-20% in excess of the optimum compaction level. Elsewhere the
material from the Guaribotuba formation had been classified as expansive with very low
residual resistance. This was confirmed in the course of construction work at Iraí.

Technical and economic conditions were improved as the result of on-going detailed studies of
the basic project and during the follow-up and management stages of the works. A series of
procedures to maximise performance was adopted, including:

- redefinition of the areas of extraction of clay materials, thereby minimizing the discrepancy
between the level in natural water and optimum compaction level and creating conditions to
correct it more readily. The materials from the Guaribotuba formation were rejected for use as
ballast in the new dam and were in the event used only for access and pre-drying work.
Construction of the dam itself was carried out solely with material from the right side shoulder.
The latter was subsequently re-landscaped and planted with native species.

- deepening the foundations and therefore improving stability and ensuring future maximum
utility of a dam of its kind;

- optimisation of the upstream and downstream slopes. Incorporation of sandy materials from
the excavations and the creation of a nucleus of selected material which permitted enhanced
tolerance in the use of the bulk of fine ballast materials.

- optimization and simplification of the associated hydraulic structures, obtaining maximum
benefit from the specific geo-technical conditions of the area located in the middle of the flow
where the rock mass was shallow by constructing an unusual single structure integrating all the
hydraulic elements ­ the spillway, the water inflow allowing greater flexiblity at different levels
and the deep discharge at the base of the structure .

- the influence of "El Niño" at the construction phase made the already bad meteorological
conditions worse, with frequent and heavy rainfall on most days. This made it necessary to
resort to a variety of technical procedures particularly those related to drying out clay
materials. A number of additional simplifications and amendments were also made to help
alleviate the difficult building conditions which made it impossible to use the fine materials at
the required times.
Positive Aspects of the Undertaking         The construction of any dam, providing it is correctly
planned, produces many positive impacts resulting from storing surface water of the areas
where the dam is built. The main benefits are of an economic, social and appearance
(landscaping) nature.
One justification for building the Iraí Dam became obvious during the final stage of the
project, in 1999 and 2000, when it it proved to be outstandingly useful in the light of the
climatic and hydrological phenomena that occurred at that time.

 Flood Control         One of the reasons for building the Iraí Dam was to reduce the risk of



                                              - 143 -

downstream flooding which used to affect the local population.
In January 1999, the region experienced very heavy rainfall, virtually unknown in normal years.
According to the records of SANEPAR, similar amounts of rain in past years had caused very
serious damage and over 1500 families had been regularly forced out of their homes as a result.

The records showed that rainfall of 80 ­ 90 mm over a 2-3 day period used to flood an area of
15000 m2 in Jardim Wiesópolis and Vila Maria Antonieta in the municipality of Pinhais ­ liable
to affect about 15,000 inhabitants. In January 1999, the Iraí dam (at an advanced stage of
construction) was able to deal fully with the amount of water resulting from the surge caused
by the high rainfall, and no flooding occurred in the critical areas downstream from the dam.
The studies and plans produced for the hydraulic structures were sufficient to ensure that such
flood disasters will not recur in the region.

Water Supplies        The main objective of the new dam was to create a reservoir to store raw
water for increasing the supply of water for the Curitiba Metropolitan Area, for which
SANEPAR was responsible.

The discharge sluice-gates were closed for the first time on 26th June 1999 and the process of
filling the reservoir commenced. In December of the same year, 6 million m3 had accumulated
in the reservoir and by the end of the rainy season (summer 1999/2000), a total of 18 million
m3 had been captured despite that fact that the sluice-gates had been partially opened to ensure
that water continued to enter the river downstream from the dam.

At the beginning of 2000, a prolonged dry season lasting for almost five months affected the
entire Basin of the Alto Iguaçu. Rainfall amounted to a mere 254.2 mm, obviously insufficient
to maintain the water supply straight from the Iraí and Iguaçu Rivers. Water-rationing would
have needed to be introduced in these circumstances, with resulting inconvenience for the local
population. The fact that the Iraí Reservoir was able to supply 15 million m3 of raw water was
therefore of fundamental importance. The reservoir contributed with an average flow of 1.15
m3/s for the entire five month drought and was able to maintain supplies for a population of
500,000.

In addition to the positive social impact of the dam, it is interesting to compare the price of
each m3 of water treated and distributed by SANEPAR with the total cost of the dam (about
R$15 million). The investment in the dam succeeded in producing a high economic return over
its first year of operation.

Creation of the reservoir also encouraged SANEPAR to implement environmental education
programs for people living in the region. This reflected a growing concern with preserving the
headwaters which had hitherto suffered from the dumping of waste, old trees etc and
particularly from sewage reaching the water courses through the rainwater conduits.

Studies carried out for EIA/RIMA identified the need to improve knowledge about a number
of animal specimens (principally birds) and to introduce a record of the archaeological
discoveries made in the river basin in the course of the works on the dam. These studies,



                                             - 144 -

benefiting the natural and cultural heritage of the region, were conducted at the behest of (and
with follow-up by) SANEPAR - which contributed the necessary funding under the auspices of
the project.

Finally, it is worth referring to the leisure facilities created by the existence of the reservoir,
especially those relating to water sports. Given the proximity of the facility near to Curitiba, a
large number of requests by sports associations and federations have been made to use the lake
for sporting purposes. Given the number of applications, the Environmental Institute of Paraná
(IAP) made SANEPAR responsible for drafting suitable plans for the use of the lake and its
immediate surroundings - with the overall objective of preserving it and ensuring compatible
use. These initiatives are currently being studied by SANEPAR and decisions should be made
by January 2002. Although it is too early to predict the outcome, everything points to
authorisation being given for water sports that cause no pollution to the water resource - such
as sailing, rowing, canoeing and windsurfing.




                                             - 145 -

Additional Annex 13. Irai Dam and Maquchinho-da- Varzea


The Irai Dam subproject is part of the Brazil - Parana Water Quality Pollution Control Project (
PROSAM), for which Loan 3505 was approved by the Bank in 1992. The US $27 million
subproject was intended to provide potable water for the city of Curitiba and downstream flood
protection. The Irai Dam was a key investment supported by the loan , which it was going to
regulate the supply of drinking water for some 700,000 people in Curitiba and provide some flood
protection for thousands of poor people residing in low-lying (and flood prone)areas. In 1992 the
IAP (environmental agency) gave SANEPAR (the state water company) an installation license for
construction to Irai Dam.

Construction started in June 1997 and was underway until June 19 1998, when it was suspended
in response to a written request by the World Bank. The request was to suspend all work that
could affect the survival of the Wet Tall-grass Tapaculo (Scytalopus iraiensis) known locally as
Macuquinho-da-Varzea, a recently discovered and threatened bird species. At the time, the only
known viable population of Scytalopus iraiensis were almost entirely within only 17 hectares (ha)
of floodplain grassland (known locally as Varzea) of the 1400 ha inundation zone of the future
Irai Reservoir. Because other viable population of Scytalopus iraiensis were not known, it was
feared that completion of the Irai Dam could seriously threaten the survival of this unique species.


In response to several letters addressed to Mr. Wolfensohn from international conservation
NGO's expressing concern about the Irai Dam and the threatened bird, the Bank in July 1998
publicly distributed a 3 page fact sheet and cover letter, and stated: "The World Bank shares your
concerns about ensuring the survival of this threatened species. We have agreed with the State
Government of Parana that the Irai dam will not be completed, and the reservoir will not be
flooded, unless the conservation of an ample population of this species can be ensured in a well
protected habitat of sufficient size and quality. " The fact sheet provides further details including:
"The World Bank intends to support the completion of the Irai Dam and filling of the reservoir
only if and after satisfactory progress has been made in the on ground establishment of one or
more compensatory protected areas with habitat of sufficient size and quality to ensure the long
team survival of the species. It is expected that the compensatory protected areas would have
adequate physical demarcation, basic infrastructure and equipment, personnel for protection and
management, management plan and a reliable funding source for recurrent operating costs."

Consequently in an effort to protect this newly discovered species, the Government of Parana and
the World Bank took the decision that SANEPAR should suspend all Irai Dam construction
activities. Following discussions in early July 1998, the World Bank and the Government of
Parana decided to carry out a rigorous conservation Study of Scytalopus iraiensis, which was
intended to search intensively for additional populations of Scytalopus iraiensis away from Irai
basin, so that a Compensatory Protected Area (CPA) with an adequate population of the species
could be established under this project before the Irai reservoir was filled. This study was carried
out by highly qualified, independent professionals, organized in several field teams (including one
team with the scientists who discovered the species). Each field team was trained in how to
identified Scytalopus iraiensis in the field (especially by voice). The study took place from July to


                                                - 146 -

December 1998.

The study found out that Scytalopus iraiensis species is extremely difficult to see, as it stays
hidden in tall, wet grassland. Given its habits, it was understandable why the bird had remained
unknown to science until that time. The conservation study was divided in two phases. Phase I of
this study was to assess this species actual distribution and habitat, along with estimated
population densities within the occupied habitat. If phase I was successful in finding additional,
viable populations of Scytalopus iraiensis outside the population densities within the occupied
habitat phase II of the study prepared an specific proposal for the legal establishment and on the
ground implementation of a suitable Compensatory Protected Area (CPA), which could not be
smaller than the natural habitat that was lost because of the project. The study obtained the land
tenure, socioeconomic, and all the relevant ecological information about one or more of the sites
in order to produce a detailed written response.

Furthermore SANEPAR removed all the non-native trees planted in natural grassland areas
around the shoreline of the future Irai Reservoir, so it would ensure the survival of these remnant
grassland patches. The State Environmental Agency (IAP) has agreed to take all necessary
measures to limit any further extent of sand mining in the reservoir area to a maximum of nine
hectares, and to ensure that any such mining did not advance any closer to the identified
Scytalopus iraiensis habitat. Beyond nine hectares, any additional sand mining in the Irai reservoir
area could only take place in the future after all of the specific measures needed to ensure the
survival of the birds in a suitable protected area were made.

After finalizing Phase I, they found an additional 15 sites where this bird occurs. Assuming that
birds occurs at "average" densities within appropriate habitat at verified sites, the total world
population of this species was very roughly estimated at about 4,700 birds. None of these 15 sites
have legal protection, all the known populations of the species were vulnerable to habitat loss,
burning, sand mining, new infrastructure, or other pressures.

During the first quarter of 1999, a group of scientist drawn from the original study team carried
out a further search for additional population of Scytalopus iraiensis. They found the "Vila Velha
State Park" that comprises 3,245 ha, of which 77 ha form contiguous area of varzea occupied by
Scytalopus iraiensis, it was estimated that a population of 160 versus about 133 birds in the Irai
Dam's future inundation zone. In March 1999, a World bank mission visited the park and found
that it had adequate physical demarcation, basic infrastructure and equipment, personnel, and a
management plan. Given that the population was larger than that at risk from flooding caused by
the Irai dam and given information from the ornithological study team that the Scytalopus iraiensis
total population was probably well in excess of the 5,000 individuals verified to date, the mission
concluded that the Irai dam was not going to have a significant impact on the species survival.

Based on existing information, the world population of Scytalopus iraiensis is likely to be 7,500
individuals, and potentially several times higher (since much of the apparently suitable varzea
habitat within the Tibagi and Iguacu river basins of Parana has not yet been studied.) The original
area of varzea floodplain grasslands in Parana has been authoritatively estimated at about 75,000
hectares, of which an unknown (but clearly much reduced )proportion still remains in good



                                                - 147 -

condition. The remaining varzea habitat is vulnerable to further loss and degradation, as only a
small proportion presently has official protection (within the Vila Velha State Park and potentially
several other, as yet unstudied, protected areas).

Although Scytalopus iraiensis species is listed in the current Red Data Book for Latin America
birds, it would seem appropriate (based on the available information) to consider the species as
globally threatened. Nonetheless, completion of the Irai dam would cause the loss of probably less
than 1% of the population of this species through the permanent flooding of its habitat. Thus, in
the World Bank's analysis, the Irai inundation would not amount a significant conversion of
Parana's varzea ecosystem in general, nor of the tapaculo's habitat in particular. The bank thus
considered PROSAM project to be in compliance with its natural habitat Policy (OP 4.04).The Bank's
natural habitats policy (OP 4.04, formerly Wildlands OPN 11.02, in effect since 1986) essentially
precludes Bank support for projects which would cause significant conversion loss or degradation of
critical natural habitats, which are defined to include "sites that are critical for rare, vulnerable, or
endangered species" (OP 4.04, Annex A, Para 1 B(ii)). However , this policy allows Bank support for
projects which would cause significant conversion or degradation of non critical natural habitats, providing
that the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the bank, most typically support for the
establishment or strengthening of an ecologically similar compensatory protected area. Based on the
findings of the Phase I, the natural habitat to be flooded by the Irai Dam is not critical to the survival of the
Wet Tallgrass Tapaculo, (or other known threatened species), but it is nonetheless significant.

The construction of the Irai dam was reinitiated after the conservation study of the Scytalopus
iraiensis showed that the construction of the dam was not a threat to the survival of the bird,
therefore the Bank gave a no objection for initiating the fill of the Irai Reservoir. On this basis,
SANEPAR was authorized to begin filling the Irai Reservoir subject to a series of commitments
that provide protection for the Vila Velha State Park and a 44 ha. area in Piraquara. In addition,
SANEPAR assume the responsibility to support the creation of 65 ha. private nature reserve
(RPPN) adjacent to the Piraquara protected area. Irai dam subproject civil works advance rapidly
after this incident, and in July 1999 all works were completed.




                                                     - 148 -

Additional Annex 14. Institutional Arrangements

14.1 GUARAPIRANGA COMPONENT


               Components                      Executing Agency               Operation and Maintenance/Continuity of Program


Subcomponent 1
Water and Sewerage Works
1.1.  Sewage interception treatment and        SABESP - Cia. de
                                                                              SABESP - Cia. de Saneamento Básico do Estado de
      final disposal                         Saneamento Básico do
                                                                                                    São Paulo
                                              Estado de São Paulo
1.2.  Rehabilitation of existing sewage        SABESP - Cia. de
                                                                              SABESP - Cia. de Saneamento Básico do Estado de
      system                                 Saneamento Básico do
                                                                                                    São Paulo
                                              Estado de São Paulo
1.3.  Interception and pumping of the          SABESP - Cia. de               SABESP - Cia. de Saneamento Básico do Estado de
      Guaravituba and Itupu flows            Saneamento Básico do                                   São Paulo
1.4.  Automation and control of sewage         SABESP - Cia. de
                                                                              SABESP - Cia. de Saneamento Básico do Estado de
      pumping                                Saneamento Básico do
                                                                                                    São Paulo
                                              Estado de São Paulo
1.5.  Rehabilitation and improvement of        SABESP - Cia. de
                                                                              SABESP - Cia. de Saneamento Básico do Estado de
      the"Teodoro     Augusto      Ramos"    Saneamento Básico do
                                                                                                    São Paulo
      water treatment plant                   Estado de São Paulo
Subcomponent 2
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
2.1.  Rehabilitation of existing systems
                                               UGP - Unidade de
      cleaning equipment                   Gerenciamento do Programa              Embu e Itapecerica da Serra Municipalities

2.2.  Cleaning Equipment                       UGP - Unidade de
                                           Gerenciamento do Programa              Embu e Itapecerica da Serra Municipalities

Subcomponent 3
Urban Rehabilitation
3.1.  São Paulo Municipality                PMSP - Prefeitura do Município de
                                                      São Paulo                      PMSP - Prefeitura do Município de São Paulo

3.2.  Embu Municipality                     CDHU - Cia. de Desenvolvimento                    Embu Municipality
                                                Habitacional e Urbano
3.3.  Itapecerica da Serra Municipality     CDHU - Cia. de Desenvolvimento        Embu e Itapecerica da Serra Municipalities
                                                Habitacional e Urbano
3.4.  Embu-Guaçu Municipality               CDHU - Cia. de Desenvolvimento
                                                Habitacional e Urbano                         Embu Municipality

3.5.  Slum Resettlement                            PMSP e CDHU                                     PMSP e CDHU
Subcomponent 4
Environmental protection
4.1.  Reforestry                            SMA - Secretaria do Meio
                                                                                     SMA - Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
                                                     Ambiente
4.2.  Parks and recovery of Mining areas    SMA - Secretaria do Meio
                                                                                     SMA - Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
                                                     Ambiente
4.3.  Technical       Assistance        for
                                            SMA - Secretaria do Meio
      Agricultural activities, forestry and                                          SMA - Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
                                                     Ambiente
      fisheries
Subcomponent 5
Waterbasin Management
5.1.  Studies and basic data collection             UGP e SMA                                           N/A
5.2.  Training and Technical Assistance             UGP e SMA                                      UGP e SMA

5.3.  Operations and management
                                               UGP - Unidade de
                                                                               UGP - Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa
                                           Gerenciamento do Programa

5.4.  Operational Equipment                      SABESP e SMA                                   SABESP e SMA
5.5.  Project Management
                                               UGP - Unidade de
                                                                                                        N/A
                                           Gerenciamento do Programa




                                                                  - 149 -

14.2 ALTO IGUACU COMPOMENT


                                   COMPONENTS                                   EXECUTING MID TERM
                                                                                 AGENCY  REVIEW
PGP-01   Management of the Project                                              UGP      SEPL
PEB-01   Technical Assistance and Training                                      COMEC    -
PEB-02   Institutional Proposal Alto Iguacu Basin                               COMEC    SEPL
         Information Systems
PEB-03.1 Remote Sensoring                                                       COMEC    -
PEB-03.2 Land Use Information and Monitoring Systems                            COMEC    COMEC
PEB-03.3 Environmental Audit                                                    ONG      SEPL

PEB-04   Drainage Master Plan                                                   COMEC    SUDERHSA
PEB-05   Definition of Economic Activities in the Basin                         COMEC    -
PEB-06   Land Use Planning and Institutional Organization                       COMEC    COMEC

PEB-07   Engineering Studies of Future Water Sources                            SANEPAR  SANEPAR
         Supervision and Monitoring
PEB-08.1 Inspection/enforcement and monitoring of land use                      COMEC    -
PEB-08.2 Monitoring and simulation in water resources                           COMEC    SUDERHSA
PEB-08.3 Analytical Laboratory                                                  COMEC    SEMA
         Environmental Education
PEB-09.1 Environmental Education- Government of Paraná                          COMEC    SEMA
PEB-09.2 Environmental Education - Municipal Prefecture of Curitiba             PMC      PMC

PEB-10   Eco-Museum development-Institutional Modernization                     SANEPAR  -
PMA-01   IRAI River Reservoir and channel                                       SANEPAR  SANEPAR
PMA-02   Rural Areas                                                            COMEC    COMEC
         Urban Areas
PMA-03.1 Urban Infrastructure and Territorial Re-ordering in Headwater Areas    COMEC    COMEC
PMA-03.2 Urban Infrastructure and Territorial Re-ordering in Headwater Areas    -        SANEPAR
         Treatment and Disposal of Lamenha Pequena disposal site                COMEC    COMEC
PMA-04.1 Treatment and disposal of effluents from the Lamenha Pequena "Lixão
PMA-04.2 Treatment and disposal of effluents from the Lamenha Pequena "Lixão"   -        SUDERHSA
PMA-05   Heavy Duty Transport accidents prevention                              COMEC    COMEC
PMA-06   Degraded River Areas                                                   COMEC    IAP
PMA-07   Recreational Areas                                                     PMC      PMC
PMA-08   PASSAUNA Park                                                          COMEC    COMEC
         Alto Iguacu Flood Control and Park
PRA-01.1 Parque e Controle de Cheias do Alto Iguaçu                             COMEC    COMEC
PRA-01.2 Parque e Controle de Cheias do Alto Iguaçu                             -        SUDERHSA
PRA-02   Urban drainage                                                         PMC      PMC
PRA-03   Sanitary Sewage                                                        SANEPAR  SANEPAR
         Urban Waste
PRA-04.1 Urban Waste                                                            COMEC    COMEC
PRA-04.2 Urban Waste                                                            -        SUDERHSA
PRA-05   Final Hospital Waste Disposal                                          PMC      PMC




                                                        - 150 -

- 151 -

