Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3503 BR
Loan Agreement
(Water Quality and Pollution Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 28, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3503 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1994, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
Page  2
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of 
Article III, Section 3 of 
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Brazil, Banco Central do Brasil, 
established by Lei No. 4.595, dated December 31, 1964, of the Borrower;
(b)
"Cruzeiro" means a unit of the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(c)
"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject which has been approved by the 
Bank after reviewing the information to be provided by the Borrower on such Subproject 
pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Financial Agency Arrangement" means the arrangement between the Borrower 
and the Financial Agent referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(e)
"Financial Agent" means a financial institution operating in Brazil, 
acceptable to the Bank, selected by the Borrower to participate in the execution of 
the Project;
(f)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovac§o da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in  the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;
(g)
"Grant" means a grant provided for under a Subsidiary Agreement; 
 
(h)
"MBES" means Ministerio do Bem-Estar Social, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Social Welfare;
(i)
"PMU" means Project management unit, the technical unit to be established 
and maintained at MBES by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(j)
"SNS" means Secretaria de Saneamento, the Secretariat for Water and 
Sanitation of MBES;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"State" means any of the following States of the Borrower: Alagoas, 
Amazonas, Pernambuco, Santa Catarina, S§o Paulo or any other State accepted by the 
Bank for purposes of the Project; and "States" means two or more of them;
(m)
"Subproject" means a specific program to be carried out by a State under 
the Project, including studies and acquisition and utilization of equipment as 
required to achieve the  objectives of the Project; and
(n)
"Subsidiary Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each of the States pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreements; and  "Subsidiary Agreement" means one of the Subsidiary 
Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
Page  3
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of nine million dollars 
($9,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during 
such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
Page  4
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end and without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower, through MBES, shall under the Subsidiary Agreements cause the States to 
perform all their obligations therein set forth and shall take, or cause to be taken, 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,  services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the States to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower, through MBES, shall make available as grants portions of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the States (in the amounts set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement) under subsidiary agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each of such States containing terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
After two years from the date of this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
MBES, shall reallocate among the States the undisbursed and uncommitted amount of the 
Loan reasonably determined by the Bank as available for purposes of the Project 
(including the deposits in the  Special Account but excluding amounts subject to 
special commitments pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) as provided in 
paragraph (2) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate  or waive any of the Subsidiary Agreements or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the 
Bank shall be utilized in the procurement of goods and consultants' services, as 
applicable, required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain in MBES, at least until the completion 
of the Project, the Project Management Unit (the PMU), with staffing, responsibilities 
and functions (including the qualifications and experience of its manager), 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide, promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PMU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
Page  5
General Conditions, the Borrower through the PMU shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year, a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank reasonably requests on the execution of the Project, and 
the compliance of the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement, and of the States under the Subsidiary Agreements.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MBES, shall:
(a)
cause the studies included in the Project to be carried out under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, where appropriate, the 
preparation of draft plans of action or programs to meet the objectives of the 
Project;
(b)
promptly upon the completion of each such study, furnish or cause to be 
furnished to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, including any 
programs or plans of action to put them into effect;
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings, 
recommendations and programs or plans of action; and
(d)
cause the respective State to prepare, taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon, programs or plans of action based on such recommendations, as 
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower, through SNS, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with:
(a)
a description of the program or studies included in the Subproject and of 
the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(b)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall enter into arrangements with the Financial 
Agent, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the participation of such Agent in the 
transfer of the proceeds of the Loan to the States under the Subsidiary Agreements.
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, 
suspending or waiving the Financial Agency Arrangement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
States and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
Page  6
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
MBES, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if the events 
specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) hereof, shall have occurred or be 
continuing, the suspension by the Bank of the  Borrower's right to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account in respect of Project expenditures may be limited by the Bank to 
withdrawals related to the relevant State or States:
(a)
any of the States shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the States will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that, any event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that at least one Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the 
Borrower, through MBES, and one State;
(b)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(c)
that the PMU has been established and staffed in terms satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
Page  7
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
from the Borrower and the respective State, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
for each of the States referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and such State and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the State  in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
from the Borrower, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by 
the Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date September 28, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 5ä andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MEFP
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia,
Brazil
With copies to:
(i)
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 8ä andar
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1506 MFAZ BR
(ii)
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e Coordenac§o
   da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
(iii)
Ministerio do Bem-Estar Social
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "A" - 7o andar
70054 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
Page  8
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Joailce Maria Monte de Azevedo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)     Goods                        500,000       100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures and
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures (ex-
                                                   factory cost)
(2) (a) Consultants'               8,200,000        85% of local
        Services except                             expenditures for
 for the PMU                                 services of
                                                    consultants
    (b) Consultants'                 300,000        domiciled within
        Services for                                the territory of
        the PMU                                     the Borrower and
                                                    100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures for
Page  9
                                                    services of
                                                    other consultants
                                   _________
        TOTAL                      9,000,000
                                   =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures of a State other than that 
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, unless: (i) the Bank 
shall have received duly certified copies of the Subsidiary Agreement entered into by 
such State; and (ii) an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of each of the parties to the agreement 
above, that such Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all 
parties
thereto and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms; and (b) 
a Subproject, unless it is an Eligible Subproject.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop a cost effective approach to water 
pollution control in Brazil and assist the States in the preparation of economically 
and environmentally sound and sustainable water pollution control and waterbasin 
management systems in the most  polluted areas of the country.
The Project, which is subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and 
the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve the objectives mentioned in the 
above paragraph, consists of the execution of Eligible Subprojects in the most 
polluted areas of the States.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1997
450,000,000
through   October 15, 2006
And on April 15, 2007
450,000,000
 
Page  10
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the  Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
Page  11
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank 
that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at 
least 50% of the value 
of the completed goods.
 
(ii)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied  in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B  bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more and the first two contracts for goods procured in each calendar year 
by each State pursuant to Part C of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
Page  12
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the States in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ or cause the States to employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
Page  13
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,  the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank hall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreements
I.
Loan Allocation
 
(1)
The amount of the Loan shall be allocated among the States as follows:
 
          State              Dollar Equivalent
          Alagoas                  1,200,000
          Amazonas                 1,200,000
          Pernambuco               1,600,000
          S§o Paulo                1,600,000
          Santa Catarina           1,600,000
Page  14
          Unallocated              1,800,000
                                   9,000,000
                                   ---------
(2)
The full amount of the Grants (as set forth in paragraph 1 above) shall be 
available to each State for a period of one year from the date of this Agreement, and 
any amounts of the Grants not committed in terms satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank after such one year period shall be made available to other States willing to 
continue participating in the execution of the Project in amounts and terms 
satisfactory to the Bank.
II.
Other Obligations
 
(1)
States shall carry out the Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial, environmental and 
public utility practices.
(2)
In order to assist the States in the carrying out of the Project, each State 
shall employ qualified and experienced consultants, such consultants to be selected as 
provided in Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement;
(3)
(a)
Each State shall undertake to insure, or make adequate provision for the 
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be 
payable in a currency freely usable by such State to replace or repair such goods; and 
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each State shall cause all goods and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for Eligible 
Subprojects being carried out by each such State.
(4)
With respect to each Eligible Subproject being carried out by each State, each 
such State shall: (a) as applicable, furnish to the Borrower and, if so requested, 
make available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, 
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules 
for each such Eligible Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or additions 
thereto; (b) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the 
progress of each such Eligible Subproject (including the cost and the benefits to be 
derived from each such Eligible Subproject), to identify the goods and services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in each Eligible 
Subproject; and (c) enable the authorized representatives of the Bank and the Borrower 
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in each such Eligible 
Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any 
relevant records and documents in respect of each such Eligible Subproject.
(5)
Each State shall furnish to the Borrower, two months after each semester, a 
progress report containing all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request 
through the Borrower concerning each EligibleSubproject carried out or being carried 
out by it, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it, the expenditure of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(6)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, each State shall prepare a report satisfactory to 
the Bank and the Borrower on the execution
of the Eligible Subproject carried out be each State.
(7)
Each State shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with appropriate accounting practices consistently applied the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of each Eligible Subproject and to be audited as 
provided in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
(8)
The Borrower shall have the right to suspend disbursements under a Subsidiary 
Agreement if a State shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
such Agreement.
Page  15
