Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY V
Report No. 7083-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER PROJECT FOR MJNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
June 10, 1988
LA1 Department
Latin American and the Carribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1987
Currency Unit = Cruzado CZ$
U';$1         = CZ$71.17
CZ$           = US$0.0140
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABES         -   Asociacao Brasileira de Engenharia Sanitaria e Ambiental
(Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineering)
BNH         -   Banco Nacional de Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEF          -   Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
EVG         -   Global Feasibility Study
FAE         -   State Water and Sewerage Fund
PAHO        -   Panamerican Health Organization
PLANASA     -   Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
MHU          -   Ministerio da Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambeiite
(Mininistry of Housing, Urban Development and Environment)
NTL         -   National Tariff Law.
SANASA      -   Sociedade de Abastecimento de Agua e Saneamento, S.A.
(Campinas Water Supply Company)
SFS         -   Sanitation Financing System
SWCs        -   State Water Companies
PROSANEAR   -   Water and Sanitation Program for Low Income Urban
Population



FO OFFICIAL Ui  ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW INCOME AREAS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE SECTOR ................................................      1
Background.                                                      1
Sector Policies and Institutions.                                2
Past and Projected Sector Investment in Urban Areas              3
Experience Under Previous Loans and Current Strategy             4
IT. THE PROJECT.                                                       5
Background.                                                      5
Project Objectives                     .5
The Borrower .......      ......... ....................         7
The Beneficiaries ....... ................................       7
Project Description.                                             8
Eligibility and Selection Criteria Under the Low-Income 
Component.                                                     8
Service Standards.                                               9
Project Cost .10
Project Financing .11
Financial and Operating Performance of the Borrower .
and Beneficiaries .11
Status of Project Preparation .13
Project Implementation .13
Project Supervision .14
Procurement .14
Disbursement .16
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing .16
Auditing .16
Project Justification .17
Demand for Services .17
Internal Rates of Return ..................................   18
Tariff Structures and Affordalility .19
Urban Poverty Impact .21
Environmental Impact .21
Project Risks .22
III. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .22
This report is based on the findings of an apprilsal mission which visited
Brazil from October 11 to 30, 1988. The mission was comprised of Messrs.
Emilio Rodriguez (Engineer), Robin Bates (Economist); and Luis Chang
(Engineer), Carlos Velez (Economist) and Charles Todd (Financial Analyst) -
Consultants.
This documtnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES
2.1  Project Cost Estimates ............. .. ..............       10
2.2  Project Financing Plan ......       .......................  11
2.3  Project Cost by Procurement Method .................    15
3.1  SANASA's Costs, Tariffs, and Subsidies at .
December 1986 .................. ..................        20
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage           24
2.   Description of the Campinas Component and the 
Technical Assistance Program for Prosanear    .......    25
3.   Project Cost      .................... ...................   30
4.   Past Investment under PLANASA             ..                 31
5.   List of Conditions for Low-Income Areas ............
Financing Agreements ............. .. ..............       33
6.   Requirements for Applications for FinancingF.
under the Low-Income Project Component ...... ....         34
7.   SANASA Institutional Assessment .......... ..........    35
8.   CEF Organization Chart ............. .. ..............       38
9.   Actual and Projected Financing Statements for .
SANASA    ...................... .....................     40
10.  CEP Financial Performance ........... .. .............       45
11.  Tentative Loan Disbursement Schedule ...............    47
12.  Monitoring Indicators ............. .. ...............       48
13.  Economic and Social Analysis .......... .. ...........    49
14.  Project File .................... ...................        56
MAP
IBRD No. 20428R - Water Sector Project for Low-Income Areas
and Municipalities



- ili -
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW INCOME AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Caixa Econom.ca Federal (CEF).
Guarantor:          Federative Repub,ic of Brazil.
Beneficiaries:      States, 41unicipalities, State 'ater Companies (SWCs) and
Autonomous Municipal Entities, under the Low-Income
project component and the water utility of the city of
Campinas, SANASA, under the Municipalities pro4ect
component.
Amount:             US$80.0 million equivalent: US$50.0 million fcr the low-
income component; US$30.0 million for the SANASA
component.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:              From the CEF to the Beneficiaries: the same as those of
the Bank loan to the CEF, plus a spread to cover the
financial intermediation, administrative costs, and the
foreign exchange risk, which the Borrower will bear.
Project
Description:        The project consists of two main components: (a) low-
income areas which will improve health and environmental
conditions by providing water and sanitation services to
the extremely poor urban families (earning less than one
minimum salary/month); and (b) an expansion of the City
of Campinas water supply to eliminate existing water
rationing, the first municipality receiving financing
under the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA). The low-
income areas sector component consists of: (a) a group
of subprojects benefitting approximately 200,000 and
700,000 low-income urban population with water and
sewerage services, respectively: (b) provision of
complementary sanitation services; and (c) technical
assistance program for PROSANEAR and to increase the
evaluation and supervision capabilities of CEF. The
Campinas component consists of works to improve and
expand the city's water supply system to meet demand
through 2002 benefitting more than 860,000 people.



- iv _
The project will help establish an operating and
financing system for the above programs and assist in
the development and dissemination of low-cost
technologies and active community participation. It
will also promote efficiency in the utilization of
financial resources by the application oi appropriate
subproject selection criteria.
Risks:              There is a risk in the execution of the project due to
the innovative character of the low-income program.
Inter-institutional coordination is required to smoothly
integrate drainage and solid waste into the water and
sewerage aspects of the project. To minimize this risk,
CEF has created a special unit to guide the operations.
There is uncertainty over the inflation outlook for
Brazil and its effects on the SWCs' financial
performance. Tariff adjustments in real terms are
politically difficult to implement in a highly
inflationary economy. To minimize this risk CEF,
reached agreement on plans for financial recuperation of
the SWCs which started in 1987.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign       Total
-_____ -USS Million --------
Low-income component                     55.80       30.34       86.14
Campinas component                       54.69       26.91       81.60
Engineering & Supervision 5?              5.51        2.86         8.37
Base Cost                               116.00       60.11      176.11
Physical contingencies 5Z                 5.80        3.01        8.81
Price contingencies                       3.82        2.00        5.82
Total Project Costs                  125.62       65.12      190.74
Financing Plan
Bank                                     14.88       65.12       80.00
CEF                                      40.36         -         40.36
Local Government                         21.00         -          25.00
Campinas Municipality                    27.24         -         27.24
SANASA                                   18.14         -         18.14
Total                                125.62      65.12       190.74



v 
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year   1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994
-------- US4 Mill'on  -------------------
Annual         35.68    18.08       11.68      6.88      5.20      2.48
Cumulative     35.68    53.76       65.44    72.32      77.52     80.00
Rate of Return:    13 2% for the low income component.
8.42 for the Campinas component.



BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01     Brazil's total population grew from 93 to 136 million (2.52 p.a.)
between 1970 and 1985. Its large and rapidly growing urban population,
nearly 100 million in 1985, presently represents 732 of the country's
total. Cities are expanding at more than twice the rate of overall growth,
so that the country is expected to have 82Z of its population living in
urban areas by the turn of the century. Rural population growth rates have
declined over the past two intercensal periods and are expected to be
negative over the next 15 years.
1.02     Since 1970, Brazil has made remarkable progress in extending wiater
services to over three million persons per year, the large majority of them
urban. Coverage in urban areas has increased from 51Z in 1970 to over 822
is 1985. It should be noted as well that priorities in Brazil were
directed to water connections, leaving sewerage, sewage treatment, and
other sanitary services well behind. Sewerage, limited to the core of the
metropolitan areas and selected medium-size cities, reached 342 of Brazil's
urban population in 1985. Waste-water disposal through septic tanks helped
increase this coverage to 512. The volume of sewage adequately treated
and/or disposed of in Brazil was estimated at 34% of the total.
1.03     Service deficits are heavily concentrated among the low-income
population, which represents more than half the residents in the largest
cities. of the 5.9 million urban households not linked to water networks
or without indoor plumbing in 1980, 72%, or more than 21 million persons,
earned three minimum salaries or less, the Bank's standard for poverty in
Brazil. Basic sanitation, defined as an acceptable means cf disposal of
human wastes either through sewerage connections or sanitary septic pits,
is an even more acute problem among the urban poor. Over 7.8 million urban
households were using either rudimentary latrines or had no service at all
in 1980. Of this total, 662, or 25 million persons, were in the poverty
group. Although the largest percentage of the urban poor lives in the
northeast, the largest absolute numbers are to be found in the cities of
the south and center.
1.04     Investments in water and sanitation have helped improve the
quality of life over the past two decades. The 402 increase in water
supply service levels in the 1970's was estimated to have been the major
source of a 27% drop in the infant mortality rate to 77 per thousand live
births. However Brazil's infant mortality rate still compares unfavorably
with Argentina (30), Uruguay (48), and Chile (55).



2
Sector Policies and Institutions
1.05     The notable increase in urban service levels is the result of
efforts made under the National Sanitation Plen (PLANASA) and its
Sanitation Financing System (SFS), led by the National Housing Bank (BNH).
In 1985, sector policies and the institutional setting started to be
affected by the country's political reforms and the economic crisis. BiNN
moved into a newly created Hinistry of Housing, Urban Development and
Environment (MHU). In November 1986, BNH was abolished and its operations
merged with the Caixa Ec' nomica Federal (CEF). PLANASA operating
procedures and personnel were transferred intact. By the same token, MHU
was given the responsibility for the establishment of sector policies,
including, inter-alia, sector goals and tariffs and to trigger Government
policies to decentralize sector decisions to municipalities and to extend
sanitation programs to the urban poor using Government grants. In 1986,
MHU launched a Water and Sanitation Program for the Low-Income Urban
Population (PROSANEAR) and promoted the preparation of the proposed
project. In October, 1987, CEF was transferred to MHU.
1.06     The major source of funding for PLANASA and its SFS is the
Employee Indemnity Fund (FGTS), which is financed by an 8Z payroll
contribution from all employees covered by labor legislation. Planning and
programming at the federal level is carried out Ly CEF.  Programming at the
State level, project preparation, project implementation, and operations of
water systems are carried out for most municipalities on a concessionary
basis by State Water Companies (SWCs). Some municipalities outside the
PLANASA system operate their own water and sewerage systems.
1.07     Each State has a State Water and Sewerage Fund (FAE) which
channels state funds to individual projects. All funds flow through an
appointed financial intermediary in each State, which acts as agent for FAE
and CEF. Under PLANASA, each SWC prepares an annual global feasibility
report (EVG) which sets forth service level objectives and an investment
and financing program for a five-year period. On the basis of these
studies and each State's commitment to provide one-half of the financing
for the investment program, the apex institution enters into PLANASA
agreements with each State. Each SWC selects subprojects and prepares
feasibility studies, including an analysis of alternatives, for approval by
CEF. The SWC then prepares final designs under CEF financing. After
review and approval, CEF signs a contract (CTN or CTE) with the SWC to
finance the works. The SWCs receive financing for the full investment
cost. For many companies, heavy debt financing of works has created
extremely high debt service requirements. Interest rates on loans are
positive, ranging from 2%-10.5% plus monetary correction, and provide a
sufficient spread to CEF. PLANASA also provides financing for
institutional development programs, for which CEF has been lending US$100
million annually.
1.08     PLANASA goals reflect:  (a) an emphasis on sewerage investment;
(b) Federal Government policy to provide basic sanitation services in low-
income urban areas and an increased reliance on government grants to carry
out this policy; and (c) inclusion of municipalities which have not joined
the SWCs, for financing. PLANASA investments in water supply and sewerage



-3-
are expected to result by 1990 in 4 million new water connections and 4
million new sewerage connections, expanding coverage in urban areas to 87t
for water supply and 44Z for sewerage. The new water connections would
keep pace with population growth. The new sewerage connections would
result in an appreciable increase in service levels.
1.09     The financial condition of the SWCs deteriorated in l9i5-86 and
most of them were not in compliance with Drovisions of the National Tariff
Law (NTL) and the Bank's financial covenants. Under the legislation, the
SWCs' revenues should cover the sum of operating costs, depreciation and
debt service. The maximum allowed rate of return is 122 on operating
investment. Full attainment of the NTL objectives would permit a high
level of cost recovery in the sector in comparison with other countries.
The main reason for the poor performance of the SWCs was the reluctance of
the Central Government to increase tariffs in the second half of 1985, and
the Plano Cruzado tariff freeze of February 1986. In 1987, tariff
increases exceeded cumulative inflation and generated real ir.creases with
respect to December 1966 levels averaging 127%. Water tariffs are approved
by the Ministry of Finance.
1.10     In recognition of the financial situation of the SWCs, CEF
proposed to the SWCs the preparation of financial recuperation plans. The
plans agreed upon between CEF, the State, and the SVC, provide for
breakeven cash flow in 1987-88 and attainment of the NTL provisions in
1989. The in - agreements of ongoing Bank operations were amended to
incorporate -inancial covenant the compliance by the SWC9 with the
financial rec.p ration plans.  The plans require real tariff increases,
enhanced coll -ions, improved operating efficiencies, and--in some cases-
-debt rescheduling and/or capital contributions. All SWCs submitted
financial recuperatic.n plans to CEF. CEF submitted to the Bank evidence
showing that 13 of the SWCs--including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Minas
Gerais--complied with the 1987 goals in the financial recuperation plans.
1.11     The incorporation of innovative technologies, the probable
participation of municipalities which currently do not take part in
PLANASA, and the active involvement of the residents in the preparation and
execution of subprojects, will require the simplification and even more
decentralization of CEF methods and procedures and greater capacities in
technical and social skills in state and municipal water companies. On the
cost recovery side, the most urgent priority is to increase the level of
tariffs sufficiently to bring the SWCs into full compliance with the NTL.
Nevertheless, the Brazilian authorities are paying atte-tion to both the
degree of and mechanisms for cross-subsidies in the sector: improvements in
the present structure of water and sewerage tariffs will facilitate the
financing of services to the urban poor. This is intrinsically a long-term
exercise but the proposed Project, along with other steps (see para. 2.46),
will help to test some of these policies and procedures.
Past and Projected Sector Investment in Urban Areas
1.12     With the exception of investment made in cities that have not
joined PLANASA, this program has been almost the sole source of financing
for water and sanitation in urban areas. PLANASA investments for 1977-85



-4-
totalled US$9.1 billion (February 1986 prices), with US$6.4 billion
invested in water q-pply and US$2.7 billion in sewerage. BMH provided
US$6.0 billion (66:); the states provided US$2.5 billion (27Z); and the
remainder US$600 million (72) came from other sources. PLANASA investment
represented more than 80X of the water and sewerage sector investment.
PLANASA annual investment showed a substantial drop of about 55% in 1983,
reflecting Brazil's economic difficulties. This trend was reversed in
1984, 1985 and 1986 (Annex 4).
1.13     Planned investment in PLANASA for 1987-89 totals US$2.4 billion
(February 1986 prices), with US$1.4 billion in water supply and US$1.0
billion in sewerage. CEF would provide US$1.0 billion (42%); the States
US$1.0 billion (42Z); with the remaining US$400 million (162) coming from
other sources. PLANASA investment would represent 842 of total water and
sewerage sector investment and is planned to grow 61 annually in US$
equivalent. In addition to urban water and sewerage investment in PLANASA,
major investment is planned for rural water supply and sanitation, storm
drainage, pollution control and solid waste collection and disposal. There
is no formal estimate of the investment needs for these items. With
respect to PROSANEAR (para 1.05), its financing system and funding needs
would be determined by MHU/CEF during implementation of the project, which
constitutes a pilot operation for the program. Prospects for continued
development in the decade are good, but achievements of the planned sector
investment hinges on resolution of the serious financial constraints at the
national level.
Experience undet Previous Loans and Current Strateg
1.14     The Bank has made loans amounting to US$1,033 million for 11 water
supply and sewerage projects in Brazil. In addition to expanding the water
supply and sewerage network, Bank-supported projects have contributed to
the strengthening of sector institutions, the establishment of the NTL, the
standardization of procedures and decentralization of sector activities to
regional offices, and the setting-up of a uniform accounting system. Basic
data, including the current status of each operation, are summarized in
Annex 1. Nine complete operations benefitted fourteen states; and the main
project objectives were achieved, despite delays attributed to, inter alia,
the inadequate institutional capabilities of some SWCs (mostly during early
s' ges of PLANASA implementation) the failure of the States to provide
timely counterpart financing, and measures taken by the Government to slow
down public investment. A FY83 Sector project (Loan 2249-BR) is proceeding
apace and is fully disbursed with the exception of US$1 million allocated
for a technical assistance program. Despite the delays and the severe
macro-economic situation confronting Brazil, progress has been impressive,
reflecting the competence of urban water supply and sewerage subsector
management. After delays to loan effectiveness, a FY85 Technical
Assistance Rural Water Project (Ln. 2532-BR) is slowly progressing.
1.15     On November 21, 1986, by Decree Law 2291, the Government of Brazil
abolished BNH, the Borrower for eight of the above Bank loans and executing
agent for the pilot comoonent of the project under Loan 2532-BR, and merged
its operations with CEF. The Bank evaluated the new institutional set-up.
Based on this evaluation, CEF was found to be able to assume the
responsibilities transferred frem BNH and the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
have been amended.



-5-
1.16     Bank involvement and support of the sanitation sector are critical
at this juncture, now that CEF has assumed its new role as Brazil's sector
apex technical and financial institution, atnd MHU has begun strengthening
its policy role. The successful implementation of PLANASA has shown that
the present institutional and program approach is correct and should be
maintained. It provides ample scope for continued investments in water and
sanitation, including services to the urban poor and to small rural
communities, and in water pollution control. The Bank should continue
lending in the sector to help consolidate the gains it has helped produ e
in the past. Lending should continue to follow a sectoral pattern to
increase efficiency and to ensure the consistency of sector and macro-
economic policies.
1.17     The current economic crisis in Brazil demands an intensification
of efforts to make investment even more efficient and to re-establish
financial viability to the sector at all levels. A clear division of labor
between MHU, which is responsible for setting sector policies, and CEF,
which now has the responsibility for the implementation of PLANASA, should
be established, and strategies devised to expand the programs to
independent municipalities (like Campinas) and to the urban poor. The
institutional arrangements for the project and the project responsibilities
and procedures have been carefully designed in order to er-ure an adequate
coordination during project implementation between MHU-CEF, like the one
achieved during project preparation. The Government and especially the
sector authorities expect an intense Bank participation in the solution of
the above short- and medium-term tasks. The Second Sector Loan, under
preparation, would be instrumental for this endeavor.
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.01     The Project is the first stage of a long-term program to extend
water, waste water, and solid waste services to poverty areas of urban
centers (PROSANEAR) and to expand water and sewerage systems in cities with
municipally owned and operated water utilities. The Bank loan is a
combined operation: sectoral for PROSANEAR, and a project loan for the
municipality of Campinas in the State of Sao Paulo. Four Bank missions
assisted CEF with project identification and preparation since the
Government requested Bank participation in early 1986. The project was
appraised in October 1987 and the Loan, negotiated in Washington in May,
1988.
Project Objectives
2.02     The main project objectives are:
(a)   to improve the health and environmental conditions of the extreme
low-income population (402 of which is earning less than one
minimum salary) living in the peripheral areas of the cities, by
providing water, waste water services, and in-house sanitary
installations, by improving solid waste collection, and by
drainage;



-~~~~~~~6
- 6 -
(b)   to satisfy urgent demands for drinking water in the city of
Campinas, including service to low-income consumers;
(c)   to assist the Government in establishing an appropriate system to
finance and implement subprojects in the peripheral urban areas
and to extend PLANASA to autonomous municipdlities; and
(d)   to provide efficiency in the utilization of financial resources by
the application of appropriate subproject selection criteria, and
the use of low cost technologies.
2.03     The low-income project component will benefit about 200,000
persons with water services and 700,000 with sewerage. While this
represents only 12 and 32 respectively of the estimated demand for new
services in low-income areas, the Project has been conceived as a small-
scale operation which is experimental in character. The Project will be
used to test innovative approaches and technologies; and financing, cost
recovery, and cross-subsidization mechanisms would be thoroughly examined
during implementation in order to reduce the need for federal budgetary
funding in sector projects.
2.04     The low-income project component includes a comprehensive
technical assistance program for PROSANEAR, which would be carried out by
CEF. The objectives of the program are: (i) to assist the Beneficiaries in
the preparation and execution of subprojects and in the operation of the
systems; (ii) the development of methodologies to deal with integrated
sanitation projects in low-income areas covering, inter-alia, institutional
arrangements, finances, cross-subsidy and recovery mechanisms, and
community participation; (iii) the development of appropriate technologies
for water and waste disposal services; (iv) the PROSANEAR related training
of the staff of SWCs and municipal entities; and (v) the integration of
actions with hygiene and health related aspects. In addition, the program
includes consultant services to increase the evaluation and supervision
capabilities of the sanitation directoriate at CEF. The program, amounting
to US$1 million, includes three sections: (i; technical assistance to
executing agencies; (ii) supervision and evaluation of subprojects; and
(iii) studies and research. A Project Unit, created at CEF during
preparation of the proposed project, will be responsible for the technical
assistance program (paras 2.23 and 2.25). This unit is well established
and staffed with qualified personnel. A more detailed description of the
program, implementation schedule and costs is in Annex 2.
2.05     The Campinas component will permit the testing of operational
procedures and financial mechanisms within PLANASA for operations with
municipal water utilities which are currently independent of PLANASA. The
water utility of Campinas (SANASA), a financially and technically sound
institution, would make a good candidate for such testing. The Project
will also provide essential support for SANASA's urgent efforts to maintain
and expand its service: about 43Z of the population which will benefit from
the Campinas component would be the urban poor.



7
The Borrower
2.06     CEF will be the Borrower of the Project as well as one of the
financing sources. The Project would be supervised through the sanitation
directorate which includes about 100 qualified staff and has been very
successful in the implementation of PLANASA. CEF was created by Decree Law
759 dated August 12, 1969, as a Government-owned entity which is
administratively and financially autonomous.  It is the country's largest
savings and loan institution. It reported to the Ministry of Finance until
October 1987 when, under a ministerial reform, it was transferred to the
restructured MHU. The Ministry approves CEF's annual budget and investment
program. CEF is also subject to the National Monetary Council's banking
regulations and to supervision by the Central Bank of Brazil.  Its
governing body consists of a Board of Directors which is appointed by the
President of the Republic. It is administered by a president, three line
vice-presidents and eight directors, all headquartered in Brasilia. It
operates 26 State agencies with 2,100 branches in nearly all major cities
in the country. Summary information on CEF and its organization chart are
in Annexes 8 and 10.
The Beneficiaries
2.07     The project beneficiaries will be:  (i) under the low-income
component, States, Municipalities, SWCs and autonomous municipal entities;
and (ii) for the city of Campinas component, the Campinas water utility
(SANASA).
2.08     Under the low-income component, CEF will onlend Bank loan proceeds
and provide counterpart financing to the Beneficiaries which would execute
the works and operate the systems through entities complying with
eligibility criteria agreed on during Loan negotiations (para 2.11):
concessionaire SWCs where they exist or autonomous municipal entities in
the remaining cases. The Bank has had a long and satisfactory experience
with the SWCs under previous and ongoing operations. The SWCs are owned by
their State governments; headquartered in the State capitals; and
responsible for services in the capital city and as many as several hundred
small- or medium-sized cities. Organizational structures are considered
appropriate. Technical operations and the maintenance of eristing systems
are generally satisfactory. Commercial organization and procedures are
adequate. Service regulations are in force and billings and collections
are, for the most part, satisfactory. The planning process is
satisfactory.  All SWCe use the uniform accounting system introduced by BNH
in 1976 and retain external auditors who must be registered with CEF.
Increased emphasis has been placed on institutional development programs to
further strengthen the SWCs. The program is also open to municipal
entities which are not part of the SWCs. These municipal entities wnuld
be, in most cases, well-established water utilities in large urban centers.
Financial and operating requirements under the Loan are simiEar to those
for the SWCs.



-8-
2.09     The water utility of Campinas, SANASA, was created in 1973 as an
autonomous public entity, wholly owned by the municipality. Its articles
of incorporation permit it, inter alia, to establish appropriate tariffs
for its services and to have its annual financial statements audited by an
external auditor. SANASA is governed by a Board of Directors appointed by
the Mayor of Campinas. Its operating management consists of a president
and our department directors. SANASA has adopted the PLANASA system of
accounts and has accepted and uses Bank procurement guidelines. SANASA's
institutional structure and procedures are satisfactory. Billing and the
payroll are computerized. Accounting, financial, technical and personnel
records are partially mechanized and acceptable. Project planning is
satisfactory; major expansion is carried out by consultants and
contractors. Operations and maintenance are reasonable. An institutional
overview is attached (Annex 7).
Project Description
2.10     The project comprises:
(a)   A Sector Component for Low-Income Areas, consisting of: (i) a
group of eligible subprojects which will benefit approximately
200,000 and 700,000 low-income urban customers with water and
sewerage services, respectively; (ii) complementary sanitary
installations (i. e., in-house sanitary installationr, solid waste
collection, and storm drainage); and (iii) consulting services for
a technical assistance program to be implemented by CEF for the
Beneficiaries, and for research of water and sanitation projects
in low-income areas and to increase the evaluation and supervision
capabilities of CEF (Annex 2); and
(b)   the Campinas water supply component, consisting of installations
to improve and expand the city's water supply system to meet water
demands up to the year 2002 and including: (i) the construction of
a 2.4 m3/s water treatment plant; (ii) the provision and
installation of seven large pipelines with a total extension of 29
km; (ii) the construction of six water reservoirs with a total
capacity of 28,600 m3; and (iv) a program for the reduction of
unaccounted-for-water, including the installation of production
and consumption metering, water distribution system survey and
mapping, a water leak control program, and the improvement of
SANASA's commercial system. Reduction of the overload on the
existing system will improve water quality and improve and extend
service, particularly to poor consumers living in peripheral
areas. A detailed description of the Campinas component is in
Annex 2.
Eligibility and Selection Criteria Under the Low-Income Component
2.11     Before sub-project financing, the Beneficiaries should submit
_idence that the SWCs or autonomous municipal entities responsible for the
construction of the works and operation of the systems are in compliance
wi:h the following: (a) the provisions of the NTL (para. 1.09) or a



-9-
financial recuperation plan satisfactory to CEF and the Bank, the latter
including compliance with the NTL by 1989 at the latest; and (b) the
preparation of separate Project accounts audited by external auditors.
During Loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a) the SWCs and municipal entities will meet the above eligibility
criteria prior to becoming Loan beneficiaries; and (b) the Borrower will
ann" sly review compliance by each project beneficiary, prepare proposals
satisfactory to the Bank for compliance or suspend the new financing of
subprojects, if necessary.
2.12     The following selection criteria will be applied to all
subprojects: (a) they should be located in marginal areas in cities with
populations of more than 50,000; (b) at least 40% of the families to be
served should have an income of less than one minimum salary; (c)
subprojects must comply with suitable technical and environmental standards
and represent the least-cost alternative for providing water, sewerage,
drainage or sanitation services; (d) water and sewerage subprojects will
have a per capita construction cost of less than 12-OTN (US$98) and 17-OTN
(US$140), respectively;1 (e) recipients will be able to pay in accordance
with tariff schedules in effect by the water utilities; and (f) investments
on in-house sanitary installations, drainage, and solid wastes should not
exceed in aggregate 10% of the total cost of the low-income component. Any
city in Brazil with the above characteristics would be eligible to
participate in the PROSANEAR program. Assurances were obtained during Loan
negotiations that the above selection criteria will be applied to all
subprojects.
Service Standards
2.13     Systems for water supply and waste disposal would be based on
appropriate technologies similar to those which have already been
successfully applied in some cities of Brazil. A summary review of these
technologies in use is in the Project File. Service standards under the
project will consist of water supply by house connections and sanitary
sewage disposal through public or individual systems. Water would be
supplied, in most cases, from the water distribution system serving the
city. Public standposts would be used only as temporary solutions in areas
where the low population density makes extension of the water distribution
network impractical. Most water utilities are reluctant to use standposts
because of the difficulties in: ensuring proper maintenance and avoiding
spills and water contamination; recovering costs from users; and preventing
illegal connections. Sewerage extensions would be connected to the
existing sewerage system or would consist of independent systems with or
without treatment facilities. Standards would be kept to a minimum but
would be in accordance with proper management practices and the habits,
expectations and ability to pay of the benefitted population. Annex 6
outlines the information required for a subproject financing application.
1/ The OTN (National Treasury Bond) was equivalent to US$8.20 in December,
1987.



- 10 -
Project Cost
2.14     Project costs are detailed in Annex 3 and summarized in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Pivcect Cost Estimates
(USS Million)
Local     Foreign    Total
Water Subprojects                               7.14       5.18      12.32
Sewerage Subprojects                          41.61       22.72      64.33
Drainage, Solid Waste, in-house
installations                               6.59        2.03       8.62
Technical Assistance Program                    0.46       0.41       0.87
Total Low-Income Component              55.80       30.34     86.14
Water Treatment Plant                          18.91       8.56      27.47
Water Transmission Pipelines                   26.83      14.82      41.65
Water Reservoirs                                3.27       1.47       4.74
Unaccounted Water Control Program               5.68       2.06       7.74
Total Campinas Component                54.69       26.91     81.60
Engineering & Supervision 5Z                    5.51       2.86       8.37
Base Cost                                    116.00       60.11    176.11
Physical Contingencies 5Z                       5.80       3.01       8.81
Project Cost at December 1987 Prices         121.80       63.12    184.92
Price Contingencies                             3.82       2.00       5.82
Total Project Cost                     125.62       65.12    190.74
The total cost of the project (excluding interest during construction and
direct taxes) is estimated at US$190.7 million equivalent, i.e. US$100
million for the low-income component and US$90.7 million for the Campinas
component. The foreign exchange requirement is estimated at US$ 65.0
million. Costs are based on December 1987 prices, and include 5% for
engineering supervision and administrative expenses, and 52 for physical
contingencies. Price contingencies of US$5.8 million or 3% of 1987 project
costs are based on estimated international inflation of 12 in 1988 through
1990, and 3.52 thereafter. Costs for the low-income component are based on
estimated average per capita costs of US$70 and US$105, for nonconvern:ional
water and sewerage projects, respectively. Costs for the Campinas component
are based on final engineering designs and actual contractual prices for the
construction of the water treatment plant and a large transmission pipeline.
The local component includes about US$1.0 million equivalent of indirect
taxes on industrial products. Consulting fees for studies, engineering
designs and supervision are based on average salaries for locally recruited
experts in Brazil.



Project Financing
2.15     The project financing plan is presented in Table 2.2
Table 2.2 Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Entity                 Low-income        SANASA            Total
2                2                X
Bank                         50.0        50      30.0     33      80.0     42
CEF                          25.0        25      15.4     17      40.4     21
Local Governments            25.0        25         -      -      25.0     13
Campinas Municipality           -         -      27.2     30      27.2     14
SANASA                          -        -       18.1     20      18.1     10
Total                       100.0    100.0       90.7  100.0    190.7    100
With regard to the low-income component, the Bank will contribute US$50.0
million (50Z of total component costs) to cover its estimated foreign
exchange cost of US$35.0 million and US$15.0 million in local costs; the CEF
will finance an additional 252 of the component's cost and will make the
Bank loan proceeds and its counterpart funding available to the
Beneficiaries as follows: (a) the Bank loan proceeds, under the same terms
and conditions as those of the Bank loan, plus a spread to cover the
financial intermediation, administrative costs, and the foreign exchange
risk, which the Borrower will bear; and (b) the 25Z counterpart financing,
under standard PLANASA lending terms. The remaining 252 will be provided by
State and local governments in the form of cash, materials, or labor. With
regard to the SANASA component, the Bank will contribute US$30.0 million
(332 of total component costs), to cover the estimated foreign exchange
cost; CEP will provide US$15.4 million; the municipality of Campinas will
finance US$27.2 million (302 of total component costs, which will be repaid
in three years following project completion with the same interest rate as
the Bank loan; and SANASA would finance US$18.1 million or 202 of
component's cost from internal cash generation. CEF lending and relending
terms are similar than those detailed above for the low-income component.
Assurances were obtained from CEF during Loan negotiations on the timely on-
lending of loan funds, and on the assumption of the foreign exchange risk.
Financial and Operating Performance of the Borrower and Beneficiaries
2.16     CEF, Borrower will:  (a) provide overall supervision of the project
and financial and operational monitoring of the beneficiaries; (b) en-lend
Bank loan funds to the Beneficiaries: and (c) provide counterpart financing
to the Beneficiaries.



- 12 -
2.17     The Government has designated CEF as successor to cll BNH's
responsibilities under Bank loans where BNH acted as Borrower. CEF, which
now works under the general guidance of MHU, was established in 1969. It
principal activities include mortgage lending as well as some commercial
operations. It is the largest single source of home financing in Brazil
with over US$14 billion in assets. CEF has more than 800,000 individual
mortgage loans and more than 20 million savings accounts. Its operations
are highly decentralized, with more than 2,100 branches and 38,000 full-time
employees. CEF has positive interest spreads and generates positive net
income. Bank missions have evaluated the financial, institutional,
technical and administrative capacities of CEF following its merger with BNH
and have concluded that CEF would be able to assume the responsibilities
transferred from BNH. The transfer has been completed and the required Loan
Assumption Agreements are effective.
2.18     CEF's primary sources of funds are: (a) savings; (b) the Employee
Indemnity Fund (FGTS), an 8% payroll contribution from all non-civil service
entities; and (c) repayment of principal and interest on loans made by both
CEF and former BNH. Prior to the incorporation of BNH, CEF had an operating
profit margin of about 5Z on total assets, although increasing rates of
inflation eroded its net profit margin on assets from 2.22 in 1982 to 0.4%
in 1985. With the incorporation of BNH, the operating margin dropped to
2.2% in 1986, primarily due to the inclusion of the BNH loan portfolio, most
of which was for public housing at very low real interest rates; and CEF's
net margin was reduced to less than 1/2 of 1Z, due principally to the one-
time absorption of losses of about US$30.0 million related to inappropriate
indexing of BNH sanitation loans. Nonetheless, CEF is a financially sound
entity with an equity of 62 of total assets; with the one-time loss of BNH
already absorbed; and with management carefully scrutinizing its cost
structure to endeavor to increase its overall profitability. (Annex 10)
2.19     SANASA's financial results for 1984 through 1986 and its estimated
finances through 1995 are in Annex 9. Its operating results were positive
in each of the past three years and it would have had net profits in 1984
and 1985, except that substantial charges were made against income for
overdue pension contributions. SANASA had historically low tariffs,
primarily because the city of Campinas had grant-funded all major
investments.. During project preparation, SANASA was advised by CEF to
increase its tariffs so that its annual revenues would cover operating costs
and debt service and make a substantial contribution (202) to its major
investment requirements as well as 10OX of related investments for network
expansion. As a result, tariffs were increased from December 1986 to April
1988    532 in real terms.  With the above changes in tariffs and the
implementation of the program for the reduction of unaccounted-for water
included in the Project (para 2.10 (b)), SANASA should have sufficient
resources to carry out the project as well as a further expansion during
1994-1997, and SANASA should be able to repay the municipal loan in three
years. The level of tariffs would be maintained in real terms. As part of
the execution of the Project -- through the program for unaccounted for
water reduction, SANASA would take appropriate actions to improve its
operations in accordance with the monitoring indicators of Annex 12 and
increase its tariff level so that SANASA's revenues would cover in each
year, at a minimum, operating costs, debt service, taxes, working capital
increases, dividends, 20% of the investment cost of the project, and 10O% of



- 13 -
the related investment (i.e., for expansion of the water distribution
network). Assurances were also obtained that SANASA would not contract any
long-term indebtedness, in addition to US$5 million needed for working
capital, prior to the completion of the project, without CEF and Bank
agreement. SANASA's tariff structure will be examined thoroughly as part of
the general review of water supply and sewerage tariffs in Brazil which is
currently being initiated and which will proceed during project
implementation (see para. 2.39).
2.20     The Municipality of Campinas will lend to SANASA US$27.2 million
and would guarantee the CEF loan to SANASA. The city operates its finances
on a cash basis. It has been actively reducing its recurrent costs and,
through deferment of investment, its debt service. It has recently
initiated three relatively large investments for which financing is in
place. Assurances were obtained during Loan negotiations that the City of
Campinas will provide the above loan to SANASA, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and will be the guarantor of the CEF loan to
SANASA.
Status of Project Preparation
2.21     Project preparation conforms to the processing of the Loan and to
the implementation schedule. A project unit was created in CEF, in
coordination with MHU, and has conceived and designed the low-income
component of the project. The processing of on-lending operations and the
execution of subprojects have been codified in detail in carefully prepared
documents. Draft documents for project institutional arrangements are at an
advanced stage of preparation. Most states have agreed to submit to CEF
tentative investment programs containing their proposed subprojects.
Feasibility studies and designs for subprojects, are being prepared by the
municipalities under CEF assistance. In order to assure an early start of
disbursement of Loan funds after signature, a group of Beneficiaries
assisted by CEF completed satisfactory final designs for subprojects
amounting to 20Z of the cost of the low-income component. CEF submitted to
the Bank draft terms of reference for the first phase of the technical
assistance and research program which has been found to be satisfactory
(Annex 2). The program includes training for CEF's staff both at
headquarters and at the states. In addition to the in-job training to be
provided by CEF, the Beneficiaries would receive financing for specific
training programs which would be requested by CEF as a condition for on-
lending financing operation.
2.22     The Campinas component has been prepared by consultants.  The water
treatment plant and main transmission pipeline (about 55Z of the cost of
this project component) are being built. Bidding documents for the works
have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory and the contract was
awarded through ICB. Works started in July 1987. The rest of the
components are in an advanced state of preparation and fit with project
execution requirements.
Project Implementation
2.23     Eligible subprojects under the low-income component will be
financed by specific contracts (CTF) entered into between CEF and the



- 14 -
Beneficiary. Subprojects would include: (a) water and/or sewerage works;
(b) in-house sanitary installations; (c) on site improvements for solid
waste collection ; (d) drainage extensions; (b) engineering and consulting
services as required for design and construction supervision, hygiene
education, and community promotion programs; and (f) institutional
development programs. These contracts will include general conditions and
commitments detailed in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained during Loan
negotiations with respect to the lew-income areas component ons (a) the
terms and conditions of the project financing agreements (CTFs); (b) the
signature of at least three project financing agreements as a condition of
disbursement of the low-income component; and (c) the signature by the
Beneficiaries of the project financing agreement with CEF as a condition for
disbursements of Loan proceedb for the subproject. Under the Campinas
component, a financing agreement between CEF and SANASA will be signed, with
the municipality of Campinas as guarantor. During Loan negotiations,
assurances were obtained from CEF that the agreement CEF-SANASA will be
signed prior to Loan effectiveness.
2.24     The project, to be implemented during 1987-93, is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1993. To avoid delays, assurances were obtained
from CEF during Loan negotiations that no Bank Loan funds will be committed
after June 30, 1991.
Project Supervision
2.25     Project supervision by CEF will permit a reasonable input of Bank
manpower which can be concentrated on the strengthening of the system and
sector-wide issues, such as the level and structure of taAiffs. CEF's
supervision activities include inter alia the preparation of all project-
related documents, the review of feasibility studies and engineering of
subprojects, their compliance with eligibility and selection criteria,
procurement and disbursement. The Bank will review and approve all CEF's
financing contracts. It is expected that most of the subprojects will be
carried out by SWCs. CEF continuously monitors the finances and operations
of those SWCs. CEF has set up a Project Unit which will be in charge of
supervision of the sub-projects.
2.26     At negotiations, agreement was reached that monitoring and
reporting of both project components will be carried out by CEF, which
will: (a) submit to the Bank by March 31 and September 30 of each year
reports on the progress made in Project execution, including a review of the
compliance with the monitoring indicators detailed in Annex 12; (b) provide
for a mid-term (about March 1989) and a final review (about December 1991)
of the low-income component; and (c) submit to the Bank Project Completion
Reports for each component four months after the Loan closing date.
Procurement
2.27     All contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$250,000 and for civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$2,000,000 will be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which ensure adequate competition and have
been found to be satisfactory to the Bank. Above these limits, procurement
will be carried out following Bank guidelines on the basis of international



_ 15 -
competitive bidding. The Bank will not reimburse CEF for expenditures made
for the purchasing of vehicles and computers which importation is prohibited
by legislation. Equipment and materials will be grouped to obtain packages
in excess of US$500,000 whenever possible. Under these assumptions,
approximately US$60 million or 312 of project expenses would be awarded
under ICE. The nature of the civil works to be carried out in the low-
income component precludes the efficient packaging of services to be bid
because civil 4orks will be carried out in many communities by different
executing entities and will be built by local contractors. Assurances were
obtained from CEF during Loan negotiations on the use of procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Engineering and project supervision
amounting to about US$8.5 million or 4.52 of project costs, will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Foreign as well as local consultants will be requested to submit proposals.
2.28     Project costs by procurement method are presented in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3: Project Cost by Procurement Method 2
Proiect Element                 ICB        LCf        Other         Total
1.  Civil Works                38.5        80.7          0          119.2
(16.9)     (34.7)                    (51.6)
2.  Equipment & Material        20.4       42.6          0           63.0
(8.6)     (16.5)                    (25.1)
3.  Engineering and Project                              8.5          8.5
Supervision                                       (3.3)       (3.3)
Total                      58.9       123.3          8.5       190.7
(25.5)     (51.2)        (3.3)       (80.0)
2.29     The Bank delegated the ex ante review of procurement decisions to
CEF under previous loans. These procedures have resulted in faster project
execution. Under the proposed Loan, Bank review of bidding documents,
awards, and contracts will be carried out by sampling with the exception of
those for equipment larger than US$1,000,000, and civil works larger than
US$3,000,000, which will have prior review. However, in order to ensure
adequate procurement procedures, the Bank will review and approve-
-irrespective of the amount--the first two contracts each for LCB and ICB
for goods and for civil works. Contracts and consultants' qualifications
for consultant services will be satisfactory to the Bank. In the review by
sampling, if the Bank determines that procurement is inconsistent with
agreed procedures, no expenditures for such items would be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may cancel such amount of the Loan.
The Bank's ex post reviews have confirmed the adequacy of procurement
procedures.
2/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.



- 16 -
Disbursement
2.30     The Loan will be disbursed as follows: (a) 672 of CEF disbursement
to Beneficiaries for eligible subprojects and for the technical assistance
program; and (b) 66Z of CEF disbursement to SANASA for materials, equipment,
civil works contracts and consultant services. In order to expedite project
execution, a Special Account in the amount of US$10.0 million will be
established in the Banco Central do Brasil to be used for both project
components. Loan disbursements will be made against statements of
expenditure prepared by CEF for both project components, a procedure that
has worked successfully under previous Bank Loans. Detailed documentation
will be retained by CEF for inspe_tion during supervision missions and for
audit by external auditors. No force account works are envisaged. The
estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 11) provides for Loan
disbursement in seven years. The closing date will be June 30, 1994.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
2.31     Existing water supply installations in the city of Campinas are no
longer able to cope with growing water demands, and the system is currently
ov,'rloaded as much as 28Z. In view of the urgent need to expand the water
proluction and main distribution installations, SANASA has already
cont.-acted the construction of a new water treatment plant and water mains
(usin6 Bank procurement guidelines), and construction began in the second
half of 1987. In view of this, advance contracting of USS50 million for the
Campin,s ^:omponent and retroactive financing of US$8.0 million from July 1,
1987 are required. Only about US$1.5 million has been spent since July 1,
1987 Lo appraisal date (October 1987). It is estimated that about US$5.0
million will be retroactively applied to this component. The low-income
component of the Bank loan would be initiated in early 1988, and represents
about US$2.0 million of retroactive payments.
Auditing
2.32     During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached that external audit
of accounts and financial statements of CEF, of the project beneficiaries,
of statement of expenditures and of the Special Accounts will be carried out
by external auditors, and that the audit report of the previous year will be
submitted to the Bank every year by June 30 at the latest.



- 17 _
Project justification
2.33     The Project supports the Government's efforts to achieve a more
balanced provision of water supply and sanitation services in urban centers
by expanding its programs to cover areas where the incidence of poverty is
high and in cities which in the past have received relatively low priority
with respect to sector investment financing. The Project will benefit more
than one and a half million urban dwellers, eighty percent of whom are below
the Bank's poverty threshold for Brazil. The Project will also help develop
strategies, procedures, and technologies to efficiently deal with the
provision of municipal services in poor areas. All sub-projects to be
financed will represent least-cost solutions. Least-cost analysis and
subproject selection criteria, agreed between the Bank and CEF, will be
incorporated in all feasibility reports of subprojects submitted to CEF for
approval.
Demand for Services
2.34     The project is designed to meet domestic and industrial water
supply demands in the city of Campinas up to the year 2002, by extending
services to an additional population of 860,000.  The populatiot   Campinas
has been growing at almost 6Z annually due to migration from pooi r states
to work in local industry. The Campinas water system was able to provide
service to 95% of its population in the early 1980s at a reasonable
consumption rate of 210 liters per capita day (the same as in Metropolitan
S. Paulo). During recent years, however, the system has been overloaded by
up to 28% of its installed capacity, and consumption per capita has dropped
to 196 liters per day, which implies a substantial rationing, mostly in
peripheral poor areas of the city. Also, service coverage dropped from 952
to 89Z of the city's population. If the projected works are not executed
and if population coverage is maintained, consumption would drop further to
an unacceptable 160 liters per capita day as early as 1990. It is also
questionable, in view of the deteriorating quality of the water source, if
overloading of the existing treatment plant should be allowed to continue,
as Campinas water sources receive waste discharges from the city of Sao
Paulo. Water demand projections are satisfactory and based on: (a) a 5%
population growth rate compared with the historical 5.9Z; (b) industry
growing by 252 during the period; (c) daily per capita consumption of 210
liters; and (d) a substantial decrease of the unaccounted-for water from the
existing 312 to 202 in 1994. Detailed demand calculations are in LAC files.
2.35     The low-income areas project component will benefit about 200,000
persons with water services and 700,000 with sewerage. While this
represents only 12 and 32 respectively of the estimated demand for new
services in low-income areas, the project is intended to be a small scale
operation under which procedures and technologies will be tested in order
devise ways of making more substantial future extensions to water and
sanitation services in low-income areas.



- 18 -
Internal Rates of Return
2.36     As is usual in all water supply and sanitation projects,
incremental revenues have been used as a proxy for the benefits of the
Project. Incremental revenues are a minimum measure of benefits as: (i)
they underestimate "willingness-to-pay", by excluding consumer surplus
(which cannot be measured in light of available information); and (ii) there
are important non-quantifiable benefits which in any case are not likely to
be captured by 'willingness-to-pay", notably better public health and a
better quality of life which result from improved water supply and
sanitation. Rates of return have been calculated for water and sewerage as
a joint service, since in many cases consumers pay a combined bill for both.
Although separate charges are provided in the tariff for water and sewerage
(see para 2.39), it is not possible to identify the "willingness-to-gay" for
each service separately. All costs and revenues are expressed in constant
prices (CZ$ as of December 1986), excluding taxes and duties, without shadow
pricing and including complementary investments necessary to achieve the
full benefits of the Project.
2.37     The calculated internal rate of retulrn for the Campinas component
is 8.4% for water and sewerage combined, using the average combined tariff
of CZ$8.37/m3 as a proxy for economic benefits. The return is moderately
sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in revenues: an increase of 102
in costs combined with a 102 decrease in revenues reduces the return to 5.1%
(see Annex 12). However, the probability of this outcome is low in view of
the advanced stage of project preparation (502 of the investment is costed
on the basis of contracted works). A further consideration is that the
overloading of SANASA's water supply system by up to 282 has reduced both
the quality and reliability of service (see para. 2.31). If it is assumed
that the Project enables SANASA to return the system to its nominal rated
capacity, thereby restoring the quality and reliability of supply, the rate
of return would increase to 13.32.
2.38     The calculated internal rate of return for the low-income component
is 13.2Z, based on a sample of typical and comparable water supply and
sewerage projects under execution. If investment in drainage, solid wastes,
and internal house installations is added in a weighted combination as in
the whole project and--given the impossibility of quantification--no
benefits are included for these investments, the internal rate of return
would drop to 11.8Z. An increase of 102 in costs and a simultaneous
decrease of 20% in benefits would reduce the return to 7.4% (Annex 13).



19 -
Tariffs Structures and Affordability
2.39     The Bank has been closely involved with the Brazilian authorities
in the design of water and sewerage tariff structures over a long period of
time, including participation in the formulation of the National Tariff Law
of 1978 (lTL).  These tariff structures in many respects are adequate
although they will require -- and are being given -- further attention over
the longer term, especially with regard to cross-subsidies for the financing
of services to the urban poor and the relationship between water and
sewerage charges. Essentially, customers of all the SWCs face similar
tariff structures, governed by the NTL and subsequent implementing
regulations. Customers are differentiated according to residential,
cormercial, industrial and public consumption categories. Each category
faces a minimum monthly charge for a minimum consumption level (MCL)
followed by progressive charges for succeeding blocks of consumption.
Sewerage charges are generally set at 80Z to 1002 of the water bill,
although in some SWCs they are 602 or less.
2.40     The MCL -- typically 10 cubic meters per month -- is intended to
provide consumers with a quantity of water sufficient to satisfy basic needs
and maintain minimum health and sanitary conditions. The NTL provides that
the minimum charge for this quantity -- in the case of residential consumers
-- should not exceed 0.35 OTN for water and 0.50 OTr for water and sewerage
combined. In fact, most SWCs charge well below this legal limit for the MCL
(about half on average), so that water and sewerage charges are affordable
even for the poorest segment of the population.
2.41     Beyond the MCL, consumers face progressively higher rates per m3
for succeeding blocks of consumption. This approach has served well in
developing countries as a way to encourage water conservation and as a rou:'
device to charge a higher average rate per m3 to higher-income consumers.
In the case of Brazil, there is some evidence that the approach may need
modific&tion or may have to be supplemented by other measures (see paras
2.45.46).
2.42     According to the principles of the NTL, average commercial and
industrial rates should exceed the average financial cost of service; while
the average tariff for public use is to be roughly equal to financial cost.
The NTL does not use long-run marginal cost (LRHC) concepts. However, in
practice the average residential rate is typically below LRMC. In the case
of the low-income component of the project -- where most subprojects consist
of extensions to the water supply network -- marginal residential
distribution costs are estimated at CZ$2.08/m3, representing some 701 of the
present average residential water tariff (CZ$2.79/m3).3 However, if a
provision is made for production costs, the estimate of LRMC increases to
about CZ$5.00/m3 so that the average residential tariff is only around 402
of LRMC, a figure which is found also in the case of Campinas (see para.
2.44).
3/ All LRMC figures are estimated using a cost of capital of 11Z.



- 20 -
2.43     Given the widespread absence of sewage treatment in Brazil,
sewerage rates are generally substantially above LRMC, which leads to cross-
subsidies from consumers with a combined water and sewerage service to
consumers with water service only. This issue needs to be addressed in the
longer term, as sewerage services are extended to a wider proportion of the
population, but it does not pose an immediate issue to the extent that many
consumers receive both services and most of those who do are from the
higher-income group.
2.44     Table 3.1 shows an analysis of existing water and sewerage rates
and marginal costs for the different consumer categories and types of
service in Campinas. It can be seen that the average tariff for combined
water and sewerage serv:ce is about 75Z of the LRMC for all SANASA
customers, a figure which was included as the minimum acceptable ratio for
subproject financing under one of the criteria used in the First Water
Supply and Sewerage Sector Loan (2249-BR). The rela*ionship between water
and sewerage tariffs discussed in para. 2.40 can P!Ft Bf seen in the Table
3.1 whereas the tariff for water alone is about 153Z ol 'RMC, sewerage
tariffs (which are 80% of water tariffs in all bracLcets, on average are
nearly 50% above LRMC. In the case of Campinas, most customers receive a
combined service. Furthermore, as is typical in Brazil, commercial and
industrial custemers subsidize residential customers and--to a much lesser
extent -- public customers. On average, residential consumers pay only 40%
and 56% respectively of LRMC for water and water/sewerage combined.
TABLE 3.1
SANASA's LRMC and Tariffs by
Consumer Category and Type of Service
(December 1986)
Average
Customer                Consumption                LRMC              Tariff
Category                (m3/month)                (CZ$/m3             (CZIm3)
W     W&S       W      W&C
Residential                   20.8            9.14   11.82    3.68    6.62
Public                       178.7            6.52    8.16    4.26    7.66
Commercial                    31.6            8.13   10.40    8.17   14.71
Industrial                  267.0             6.40    8.00    8.97   16.14
All Customers                 24.3            8.71   11.22    4.65    8.37
Notes:  W = Water only
W&S = Water and Sewerage combined



- 21 -
Marginal costs for water were calculated by adding distribution-level
marginal costs to marginal customer costs, latter being calculated using the
monthly consumption levels shown in this table. Marginal costs for water
and sewerage were calculated by adding to the marginal costs for water the
following two items: the sewerage collection marginal cost and the marginal
customer cost for sewerage, the latter being calculated using the monthly
consumption levels shown in this table.
2.45     Cross-subsidies between residential customers and (possibly) from
non-residential to residential customers can be defended in so far as they
make basic consumption affordable to the poor. Howeker, reliance on the
present system of progressive tariff and consumption blocks to ensure such
cross-subsidization requires further investigation. While available
evidence shows that average household water consumption increases with
average household income, there is also evidence that some higher-income
consumers may exhibit a relatively low water consumption and, conversely,
some lower-income consumers may have a relatively high water consumption.
Although this implies that certain higher-income households are paying less
than LRMC, the simple solutior, of raising the rate in successive consumption
blocks may not be the most appropriate one as it could cause hardship to
certain lower-income consumers.
2.46     The Brazilian authorities are aware of these anomalies in tariff
structure and organized a workshop in April, 1988 to examine the level and
structure of water supply and sewerage tariffs and ways in which the present
system can be improved. The Bank is also actively pursuing the subject
through research into cost-recovery met'siods for urban services in low-income
areas to be carried out under the Project and the proposed Second Water and
Sewerage Sector Loan. Evidently, the continued improvement of water supply
and sewerage tariff structures is a complex and intrinsically long-term
exercise which the Bank and the Brazilian authorities have been addressing
for a number of years. While progress has been made on the tariff structure
and it is essential to continue this exercise, the immediate priority in the
sector as far as tariffs are concerned is to raise the level of water supply
and sewerage tariffs to bring the SWCs into full compliance with the NTL.
Urban Poverty Impact
2.47     The low-income component of the Project is designed to benefit
peripheral areas of the large cities where most of the population is poor.
The selection criteria require that all subprojects will be directed to
areas where more than 402 of the population earns less than one minimum
salary. The poverty group is defined in Brazil as families earning a
monetary income of three regional minimum salaries or less. In Campinas,
which is growing at 6% p.a. due to migraticn from the poorest areas in
Brazil, SANASA estimates that 43Z of the benefitted population will be urban
poor (Annex 13).
Environmental Impact
2.48     The project would improve the sanitary and environmental conditions
faced by a large group of low-income urban dwellers. The Project will
adequately dispose of wastes derived from new water services, and provide



- 22 -
adequate waste disposal to areas with existing water services. The
environment would be further improved in the serviced areas by drainage and
solid wastes collection.
Project Risks
2.49     The project risks are associated with the innovative character of
the low-income program and the required coordination at Federal and local
levels. To minimize these risks, the Project provides for a substantial
participation of CEF's highly experienced and qualified sanitation
directorate which will help with the development of sound new approaches to
the provision of services for very low-income areas. The main sector risk
stems from uncertainty over the outlook for inflation in Brazil and its
effect on tariffs and the financial situation of the SWCs and municipal
water utilities. Cont'nuation of high inflation rates, coupled with the
need in some cases for real tariff adjustments, would dictate high nominal
tariff increases, which may be politically difficult to implement. To
reduce this risk, CEF, the States, and the SWCs have adopted the strategy in
their financial recovery plans of making frequent small tariff increases to
avoid the problem associated with large adjustments.
III. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01     During Loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) from CEF:
(i)   the application of eligibility and selection criteria under
the low-income component (paras 2.11 and 2.12);
(ii)   the timely on-lending of loan proceeds and additional
funds to SANASA (para 2.15);
(iii)   the terms and conditions of the project financing
agreements between CEF and the Beneficiaries (para 2.23);
(iv)   the commitment of all Bank loan funds by June 30, 1991
(para 2.24);
(v)   the submission of semi-annual progress reports and a
project completion report (para. 2.26);
(vi)   the use of the Bank's procurement guidelines (para 2.27);
and
(vii)   the external audit of accounts and financial statements of
CEF and the statements of expenditures (para 2.32).



- 23 -
(b) from the municipality of Campinas and SANASA:
(i)   the financial covenant for SANASA and the long-term
indebtedness covenant for SANASA (para 2.19);
(ii)   the Municipal:.ty's loan to SANASA for counterpart funding
(para 2.20); and
(iii)   the external audit of SANASA (para 2.32).
3.02     During Loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
special conditions:
Prior to Loan Effectiveness:
the signature of a financing agreement between CEF-SANASA and the
Municipality of Campinas (para 2.23).
Prior to Loan Disbursements for the Low-Income Component:
the signature of three on-lending agreements under the low income
areas component (para 2.23).
Prior to Loan Disbursements for an Eligible Subproject:
the signature of the respective project financing agreement (para
2.23).
3.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$80.0 million to the Federal Republic of Brazil for a period
of 15 years, including a five-year grace period. Advanced contracting for
up to US$50.0 million and retroactive financing for up to US$8.0 million
for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1987 is also recommended (para.
2.31).
6110/88



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW INCOME AREAS
Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage
Amount/Borrower                                     Status as of 12/31/87
Year  Loan No.   (US1 Millions)                Purposo            Committments  Disbursements               Comments
1971    767-BR   22.0 City Water  Soo Paulo water distribution        low          100X         Project performance audit
Company      and storage.                                                  dated April 4, 1980.
1971    768-BR   12.0 City Water  Sao Paulo sewage collection         100%          100%         Idem. Loan amount reduced
Company      and disposal.                                                 from USX16.0 million.
1974   1009-BR   88.0 BNH          Water supply and sewerago In       low          100%         Project completion report
tho state of Mines Gerals.                                   dated June 16, 1981.
1978   1309-BR   40.0 BNH          Water supply and seworage In        100%         100%         Project completion report
the state of Minas Gerals.                                   dated May 18, 1984.
1978   1626-BR   62.6 BIN          Sewage collection and disposal    198%            100%        USf67.6 million cancelled
in metropolitan Soo Paulo.                                   1/86.  Project completion
report dated May 19, 1987.
1979   1658-BR   106.0 INN         Water supply and sowerage In       100%           100X        Project completion report
tho states of Bahia, Ceara                                   dated February 27, 1987.
and Pernambuco.
1980   1823-SR   180.6 BNH         Water supply and sewerage In        100%          100%        Project complotion report
the states of Parana, Santa                                  dated April 27, 1987.
Catarina and R.R. do Sul.
1980   1860-BR   139.0 BNH          Third Mines Cerals water           198%          198X        Project completed satisfactory
supply and sewerage.                                          in December, 1987.
1981   19706-R   180.6 ONN          Multi-state water supply and       198%          198%        Project completed in
sewerage project in the states                               December 1987 with the
of Amazonas, Goias, M. Grosso                                exception of works In the
do Sul, Pare, Paraiba and tho                                city of Brasilia which are
Federal District.                                            oxpected for completion by
June 1988.
1983   2249-BR   302.8 BNH         Water supply and sewerage           198%           99%        Project satisfactory completed
sector project; sub-projocte                                 in Docember 1987 with the
in 28 states and territories.                                exception of an ongoing Tech.
Assistance Program.
1988   2532-BR   16.3 GOVT. of     Technical assistance to             20%            12X        Technical assistance portion
BRAZIL            dovelop national rural water                                  satisfactory; pilot component
and sanitation parameters, and                               has not yet started.
* pilot rural project in one
state. 



-25-                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
Description of the Campinas Component
Campinas Component
1.       Campinas, located 85 km north of the City of Sao Paulo is one of
the most important industrialized cities in the State. Its 1987 urban
population is estimated to be about 900,000 inhabitants, and it has had a
steady population growth of 5.0% per annum since 1970. The city's water
supply system was founded in 1887. Campinas' main water source is the
Atibaia River where 2.0 m3/s of water is drawn to feed three existing
treatment plants and 0.1 m3/s is drawn from Campinas river to feed a fourth
one. The river's flow is controlled upstream by DAEE (Department of
Electric Energy of the State of Sao Paulo). SANASA, the Campinas water
supply organization created in 1973, has been authorized by DAEE to draw up
to 4.0 m3/s during the dry season and has requested for an additional
0.8m3/s (minimum regulated river flow: 7.8m3/s) at the intake point for the
treatment plants. The present water production capacity is inadequate for
the city's current requirements, and very often during the rainy season,
because of the high turgidity, water production cannot be sustained and
SANASA has to ration water. This shortage is aggravated by the more than
30% unaccounted-for water.
2.       SANASA, through external consultants, developed a water supply
Master Plan which was finished in 1983. The first state of the Master Plan
is the least cost solution to expand Campinas water supply through the year
2002, when 95Z of the population will be served. The plan includes a 6
years program to reduce the unaccounted-for water level from 302 to 20% and
a 0.36m3ls water treatment plant, located adjacent to the Capivari River to
be ready in December, 1987. Table 2 shows Campinas service levels.



- 26 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Population Service Levels
for Campinas Water Supply System
Years           Population                 Water       Water        Water
Total   Growth Served  Served    Produced   Unaccounted    Sold
Thousands   2       2    Thousands 106m3x year      2        106m3x years
1984     765     5.93   93.1    713          74.8         29.9         52.4
1985     810     5.93   91.3    740          80.9         32.2         54.8
1986     848     5.93   88.6    760          82.6         30.3         57.6
1987     909     5.85   88.8    807          90.9         30.5         63.3
1988     961     5.75   88.7    851          99.5         30.5         69.2
1989    1014     5.55   80.6    908          99.5         28.0         71.6
1990    1069     5.35   90.5    967         104.4         26.0         77.3
1991    1124     5.15   92.0   1034         111.0         24.0         86.6
1992    1179     4.95   93.5   1103         115.8         21.9         90.3
1993    1235     4.75   95.0   1173         121.5         20.8         96.0
1994    1292     4.60   95.0   1227         125.5         20.0        100.4
1995    1350     4.50   95.0   1283         131.1         20.0        104.9
3.       A description of the project components is given belows
(a) Construction of a 2.4 m3/s conventional water treatment plant
(ETA4), located adjacent to the existing 1.1 m3/s (ETA3) which was
built in 1972. The plant is located 2700 m from the water source
the Atibaia river. In February 1987, SANASA completed and tested
a new water intake, a 3600 HP pumping station and a 2640 m long,
1000 mm steel transmission pipeline to the future ETA4 plant.
Since the new plant will be located next to the ETA3, some of the
unit processes such as: presettling, coagulant mixing, chemical
storage, chlorine contact tank, laboratories, and other auxiliary
elements will be built to serve ETA3 as well, thus improving the
treatment capacity of this existing plant. The units of the ETA4
plant consist of: accelerated presettling through four rectangular
tanks with 600 incline plate settlers installed every 5cm;
chemical mixing (aluminum sulfate), will be done at a hydraulic
jump. The mixed flow will be divided into the ETA3 and the new
ETA4 plant; coagulation will take place in two rectangular tanks,
subdivided into three compartments each; final settling will take
place in two rectangular units, the process being accelerated by
inclined asbestos cement plate settlers. Sludge removal will be
made by hydraulic pressure. Nine rapid dual media sand/anthracite
filters of a rectangular shape, cleaned through backwash; the
filtered water will be disinfected with chlorine in a rectangular
contact tank designed to handle the ETA3 effluent as well;



-27-                            ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
(b) Improvement of the water distribution system including about 29 km
of large transmission water pines. The main transmission line has
a diameter of 1500 mm, a length of 6744 meters and a capacity of
3.6 m3/s. This pipe will connect the treatment plant with an
existing reservoir located in the central part of Campinas. Six
additional water main with varying diameters of 400 mm to 1200 m
will be built connecting existing and new reservoirs;
(c) Construction of six water reservoirs with a total volume of 28,600
m3.  With these new reservoirs, the water storage capacity will be
increased to a total capacity of 117,600 m3;
(d) The carrying out of an unaccounted-for water control program
consists of personnel training, metering, survey of the water
distribution system and water leak control, and improvements in
the commercial system.  The purpose of the program is to improve
the operation of the city's water supply system by reducing
unaccounted-for water from 30Z to 20t by 1993.
Technical Assistance Program For Prosanear
Background
1.       CEF, in  recognition of the innovative character of the "Water and
Sanitation Program for Low-Income Urban Population" (PROSANEAR), decided to
carry out a technical assistance program to support the Program's related
investment operations.   CEP, responsible for PLANASA's implementation,
will also be responsible for PROSANEAR implementation. Furthermore, after
testing PROSANEAR through the Project and setting up its methodology, the
idea would be to incorporate this Program to PLANASA as a special section
dealing with urban poor areas. MHU is playing an active role in PROSANEAR
as the sector policy-maker.
2.       The objectives of the Program are:  (i) to assist the executing
agencies on the preparation and execution of subprojects, and on the
Operation of the Systems; (ii) the development of methodolog.es to deal
with integrated sanitation projects in low-income areas covering, inter -
alia, institutional arrangements, finances, cross-subsidy and recovery
mechanisms, and community participation; (iii) the development of
appropriate technologies for water and waste-disposal services; (iv) the
PROSANEAR related training of the staff of SWCs and municipal entities; and
(v) the integration of actions with hygiene and health.



-28 -                              MNNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
3.       The Program includes three sections:  (i) technical assistance to
the Beneficiaries; (ii) supervision and evaluation of subprojects; and
(iii) studies and research. The areas of activities include, inter-alia
institutions, economics, finances, engineering, hygene education, and
community participation. Section (ii) will help CEF to increase its
evaluation and supervision capabilities.
4.       The main institutional arrangments for the Program are as follows:
(i) contract PAHO-CEF for consulting services; and (ii) contracts CEF-
Beneficiaries for technical assistance.
5.       The main actions to be taken are:
(i)   signing of contract CEF-PAHO for Project start;
(ii)   promotion of the Project in the states;
(iii)   preparation of methodology for technical assistance to the
Beneficiaries agencies, supervision, and evaluation;
(iv)   seminars at the states;
(v)   training of CEF staff;
(vi)   execution of technical assistance and supervision;
(vii)   preparation of semi-annual reports;
(viii)   evaluation of the program.
(ix)   selection of studies and areas for research.
Attachment - Implementation Schedule.



BRAZIL
WATER PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
Technical Assistance for PROSANEAR
Implementation Schedule
QUARTERS        1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12
Coordination on/planning
Preparation of methodology
Preparation of manuals and
training material
Training CEF staff (Rio)
Training CEP staff (States) and
executing agencies staff
Technical assistance to executing
agencies
Definition of areas for studies
and research
I N



IIRAZIL
WATER SECTORt PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AID LDW-INCOME AREAS
Project Cost
Projected Annual Investments
(Ms MilIion.)
TOTAL   1997     1999      1999    1990    1991       1992    1998
Low-Inoem Components                 9#.14       -    9.90    21.76   20.81   16.82    8.91          7.92
Water Subprojecte                     12.52      -    1.42       8.11    2.98    2.40       1.27     1.14
Seerage Subprojects                   64.38      -    7.89    18.26    16.66   12.57    0.66         t.90
Drainage, Curbig. Colloction,
Sanitary Installation.              8.62      -    0.99       2.19     2.08     1.68    0.89      0.79
Studies and Training                   0.87      -    0.10       0.22     0.21    0.18    0.08       0.06
Campinas Componentc                   81.60   12.66    8a.89    26.82     9.25       -        -         -
Water Treatmnt Plant                  27.47   8.24   18.73       6.50        -        -       -         -
Water Transmission Pipelines          41.66   8.65    15.65     15.36     7.02        -       -         -
Water Resrvoirs                        4.74      -    0.96       2.37     1.42       -        -         -
Unaccounted Water Control Progrm       7.74   0.77    8.09       0.79        -        -
Engineering and Supervision SX         8.87    0.66    2.23      2.42     1.47    0.79    0.42       0.a8
Basd Cost                            176.11   14.03   46.86    60.82    30.92   16.78      8.86      7.89
Physical Contingencies s%              8.81   0.71    2.36       2.66     1.54    0.83    0.44       0.89
Decembr 1966 Project Cost            184.92   14.78   49.21     63.38   32.46   17.66    9.80        8.29
Price Contingencies                    6.82  (0.22)    1.21      1.89     1.16    0.62    0.83       0.29
Total Projoct Cost                   'oJ.74   14.61    60.41    66.27   3aa c    18.18    10.18      8.69
I1



- 31 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
Wat,, Sector Project 1to Low lace_ Area and g6jnIgIcalitl.S
Pt Investment Ulder KAMM
(Current US$ Million)
VAT1  6UPLY             S E                TgAL
zu4vmIP                       o
Lares Citties   Sa I Coemmlte                                                   ..
Year     mount     *    Amount    I    mount    S        Amunt      I            Amount    I
1eto       1.41  100.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.41  100.00            0.0   46.80
19        69.92  100.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6t.e2  10O.00           32.80   17.0
1970     18.85   98.94    0.00    0.00    5.74    4.06    141.7  100.00            10.49   21.86
11n       82.89   98.40    0.00    0.00    9.70    6.60      .09  1CO.00           25.18   44.6
1972      9O.44   69.07    0.00    0.00   40.51   80.93    1O.95  100.00            1.70   59.65
1978     29.48   78.57    0.00    0.00   61.57   21.48    292.04  100.00          126.00   42.00
1974     196.45   65.10    0.00    0.00  14.86   86.9     811.81  100.00          146.8   47.02
7        826.86   72.76    0.00    0.00  125O.  27.24    481.56  1O.00            M.       82.84
19e76    869.8   76.84    0.00    0.00  117'.86   2.16    806.86  100.00          86.94   6.70
1977     464.89   74.26    6.28    1.27  159.49   24.45    652.86  100.00         8.40   86.62
1978     491.19   62.88   87.82    4.75  257.06   82.72    70.57  10.00           805.21   64.06
1979     449.44  58.21   42.05    5.17  82.54   89.62    614.06  100.00           578.69   n.09
190      867.89   66.86   41.89    4.90  24.9   26.74    8M.76  100.00            81.95   t2.16
11       06.80   68.22   75.48    6.12  858.10   26.66    i2.41  100.00          15.64   81.41
196      651.00   60.a8   77.62    7.20  850.e4   82.47   1060.46  100.00         869.24   79.8
1968     441.80   66.70   14.68    8.42  165.70   25.0     642.80  100.00         42.20   64.42
1964     291.69   78.81   22.84    8.61   6.65   21.07    8.7  100.00             295.45   74.2
1965     457.66   6.6    89.26    S."  17.64   27.5       8"6.60  100.00          a74.86   6.47
196s     84.26   88.94   26.70    4.86  245.94   89.78     618.97  100.00         801.97   81.10
TOTAL    e5.64   66.61  406.02    4.19 2681.98   29.20    9697.62  100.00        678.    69.6
-IE.M     ~    GNM -             -N0fomoo  -         -     -O



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
AZIL
Water Sector Project for Low Into" Arwea ani  uniclpaliti.
Past Inv"teet Und.r PLANASA by State 1968-196
(Current US$ Million)
WoUr Supply
Large Cities   S_ll Counitie    Sweraeg               Total
State    Amount     S    Amount     S    Amount      S      Aount       I
Aondo.Ea      43.63    0.68    0.00    0.00    1.27    0.04        44.89    0.46
Acre           7.42    0.11    0.45    0.11    0.00    0.00         7.87    0.08
Az_one        77.80    1.20    0.00    0.00   11.18    0.39        88.46    0.91
Rorai_         7.86    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00         7.36    0.00
Para         118.00    1.75    1.90    0.47    4.00    0.14       118.90    1.23
Amups          2.87    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00         2.87    0.02
North       251.06    0.89    2.88    O."8   16.43    0.S8       269.85    2.78
Maranhao      78.28    1.17    2.87    0.71   18.49    0.48        91.64    0.94
Piaul         61.49    0.98   14.00    8.45    0.00    0.00        75.49    0.78
Coors         129.78    2.01   12.71    8.18   80.38    1.76      192.77    1.99
R.0.Norte     78.82    1.22   14.18    8.49    9.80    0.as       102.80    1.05
Paralba       100.26    1.85    2.84    0.70   40.27    1.42      148.37    1.48
Pernabuco    3S2.80    5.14   14.86    8.54   47.80    1.69       894.47    4.07
Alagos        60.41    0.94    0.00    0.00   18.67    0.48        74.06    0.76
Sergipe       57.42    0.89    1.88    0.38   18.32    O.68        77.26    0.60
sahle        829.89   12.85   86.68    9.07  106.80    8.76       973.25   10.04
Northea-t   1728.60   26.71   99.32   24.46  299.68   10.58    2124.60   21.91
MO.Grais     689.67   10.68  101.44   24.99  244.63    8.64    1085.75   10."6
Emp.Sonto     151.32    2.84    S. S    1.89    1.17    0.04      158.14    1.68
R.Janelro    52 .98    8.16    0.00    0.00  140.17    4.95       667.18    6.88
Sao Paulo    2096.26   82.48    8.56   14.48  1671.88   89.02    3828.22   09.48
Southeast   8466.21   83.66  168.67   40.60 2057.38   72.68      8889.25   88.67
Parana       251.61    8.90   46.98   11.87  129.64    4.58       426.68    4.42
S.Catarins    117.48    1.82   28.21    6.21   44.50    1.57      187.20    1.98
R.0.Sul      241.69    3.74   18.10    8.2S  164.50    S.81       419.30    4.82
South        610.99    9.48   88.29   21.01  338.85   11.97    1085.18   10.67
N.0.Sul       126.21    1.91   13.50    3.38    2.89    0.09      169.30    1.44
Hato Crorw    91.81    1.41   29.27    7.21    4.46    0.16       128.05    1.29
Ooie         109.S4    1.69   10.61    2.61   75.40    2.66      195.88    2.01
Dl-t.Federal   61.91    1.27    0.00    0.00   87.20    1.01      119.11    1.28
Center West  408.77    6.26   68.89   18.15  119.68    4.23      576.61    8.97
TOTAL ERMSIL 649.64  100.00  406.02  100.00 2681.96  100.00    9897.62  100.00
S af TOTAL    66.61             4.19            29.20             100.00
_______         -------          -------             ------



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
List of Conditions for Low-Income Areas Financing Agreements
A project financing agreement (CTF) signed by CEF and each
Beneficiary will be made for each subproject approved for financing. This
agreement will link the subproject to general conditions and commitments
contained in the Loan Agreement. A list of general conditiuns follows:
Obligation of the Beneficiaries
1.       Carry out the project;
2.       Hire qualified consultants;
3.       Arrange adequate insurance coverage;
4.       Make adequate use of goods and services being financed;
5.       Prepare and deliver promptly to CEF the project documentation;
6.       Maintain satisfactory project and accounting records;
7.       Authorize visits of CEF and Bank personnel to works and offices
of the SWCs or autonomous municipal entities;
8.       Prepare progress and completion reports;
9.       V.omply with subproject selection criteria;
10.      Maintain external audit;
11.      Comply with the provision of the NTL;
12       Comply with procurement guidelines; and
13.      Execute agreed recovery plans to comply with the National Tariff
Law, which is aimed at strengthening the company's financial
situation.



- 34 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOHE AREAS
Requirements for Applications for Financing under
The Low-Income Project Component
1.       The application for financing should include:
(a)   Map showing subproject location within the city;
(b)   Population to be served, family income survey, present situation
of the services in the proposed area: water, sewage collection,
solid waste collection, drainage, in house sanitary installation;
(c)   Summary description of city services where the subproject is
located such as: water supply, sewage collection, treatment and
disposal solid waste collection and disposal. and drainage system;
(d)   Proposed solutions for the required services, justification of
alternatives chosen, status of project preparation, total cost of
proposed services, with breakdown of materials, equipment and
civil works, and timetable for project implementation;
(e)   Institution responsible for project execution including community
organization and participation and counterpart financing; and
(f)   agreement to comply with the eligibility and subproject selection
criteria.
2.       Approved subprojects would be converted into a financing contract
between the Beneficiary and CEF. The contract will spell out the List of
Conditions for Financing Agreements listed in Annex 5.



- 35 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
SANASA - Institutional Assessment
ACTION
AREA                          ASSESSMENT                     REQUIRED
Overall              SANASA is an autonomous corporate          None
Institutional        entity, created by municipal law
Assessment           4.356 of 1973, with powers to set
tariffs and personnel policies.
SANASA is exempt from municipal
taxes, has the right to expropriate
and has external audit.
The president is appointed by the          None
mayor and the president appoints the
four authorized department directors.
All officials are re-appointed annu-
ally. The organizational structure
is satisfactory, and SANASA has com-
petent and dedicated personnel.
Salary inequities exist at management    See Human
levels.  An internal program is            Relations
underway to correct this.
Financial           Until December 1986, SANASA's average
Management           water tariff was US$0.03/m3 and its
average sewage tariff was US$0.02/m3.
Although such rates are extremely low,
SANASA had a positive cash flow in the
past two years since it has no debt
service. In view of the high invest-
ment required for the needed expansion,
802 of which will be debt financed,
SANASA raised its water tariff in Decem-
ber 1986 and March 1987 for an effective
average water tariff of US$0.15Sm3 and
increased sewerage to 802 of the value
of water billed. The present tariff,
on a constant price basis, adequately
covers operational costs, debt service,
202 of the project cost, and lOOZ of
network expansion investment over the
project execution period.



- 36 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
ACTION
AREA                          ASSESSMENT                     REQUIRED
Budget: The budget system has been         Corrective plan
revised and a cost control system          being instal]ed
will be in place by August 1987.
Cash management is a daily operation.
Accounting & Financial Information &
Control: Accepted mechanical system.
Financial results available within 8
weeks. Conversion to BNH chart of
accounts completed, and written
procedures are available. Plan to
convert to integrated computer
system (billing/collection/
accounting/inventory/payroll) with
in-house computer in 1988.  Billing
and payroll on municipal computer
today.
External Audit: Has contracted
Arthur Andersen for several years;
good existing relationship.
Stores Inventory: Physical inventory
in 1985 showed lack of control; in
1986 hired Arthur Andersen to do
systems review, but results can only
be effected in 1987.
Project              Planning for extension of water
Planning &           distribution and sewerage collection
Construction         networks is in-house up to 150mm
diameter pipe.
Planning for major expansion through
consultants, and construction is
carried out by private contractors.
SANASA is a member of the Municipal
Planning Board.



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
ACTION
AREA                          ASSESSMENT                    REQUIRED
Operations &         Production:  Due to the lack of          Technical Assist-
Maintenance          treatment capacity, existing treat-    ance for instal-
ment plants are operating at 302 in    ling preventive
excess of rated capacity.  Situation   maintenance is
will continue until project is func-   part of project.
tioning.
Distribution System:  Excessive lost   Technical Assist-
water of about 20? known, and some 6?  ance including
of meters not functioning.  Leaks        unaccounted-for
repaired as reported.                    water programs,
new meters and
spare parts are
part of the proj-
ect.
Human                Total staff of 1467 empioyees for
Resources            136,500 water connections, and
Development          116,600 sewerage connections; 10.7
per 1,000 water connections.
Present staff description system         Program should be
inadequate; program underway for         monitored.
installation by Dec. 1987 to set pay
levels in accordance with function.
Has on-the-job training, and offers    Technical assist-
tuition payment for university work    ance program pro-
Building a training center.              vides for ex-
panded training.
Commercial           Deficient in many respects: (a) bal-   Department is
Operations           ance not reconciled with accounting;   under reorganiza-
(b) billing and collection not inte-   tion.  Reconcil-
grated to accounting though on compu-  iation of out-
ter; (c) shut-off/reconnection crews   standing balance
are inefficient, and need correction.  to accounting
Bills are paid at all banks and          nearly complete.
SANASA headquarters.  Collections        Integration with
84/86 average 952 billing.               accounting also
underway. Tech-
nical Assistance
is part of the
project.



-38-                              ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
WAWE UICY  KJIC FOR LOW 0400W AMN AMD MWCAUS
oeeemumr
_MftW Chtt
l owefa l~~~CI.V
CO
ELl~~OMO
Fl    G                      pwm
<'[t~~~~ovc [t8c X-
{     3~~~m            MaW      %*m
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F   An                L L  , 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                      k- .  ,
_    __ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fm
H_ He                            XW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
[E  1  1[  HH  H I- 11 t1 11 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~spww
X^PX-{                                        Xi     {'o
i  E  X {K    X  X  X  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wmf*-m



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR LOW INCOME AREAS AND MUNICIPALMES
Caiba Economica Federal-Sanitotlon Depafrment
OrganIzaHion Chart
Drector
oepaflmnt
9&etntendenit
Sanitatonm
Depadment
Dt
Mang
smoation
Depo"nmst
R                                        t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Coh& c"0                                    & 0  WUOl
_ AppNclk_    Ecormitk                _       atl
NOV*           P4nn              Dem"xnet
DWW                 D~ lblM
MdV&                   Id
_   w CstCa            Ra$ _  R            Drm_  t
Dhbbn               D~h      I            -W
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
At AmX.1q97                                        W lod Bar* - 40362                 o G
N)'l



- 40 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER sECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
SANASA
Actual and Projected Financing Statements
1.       SANASA's 1984, 1985 and 1986 financial statements were audited by
Arthur Andersen and Company. Since valid forecasts of 1987 and future local
inflation were not available, all costs and revenues in effect during
December 1986 were converted to U.S. dollar equivalents at the official rate
of CZ14.85/US$l.00 (with certain exceptions mentioned below), and estimated
dollar inflation factors of 3? in 1987, 1? during 1988 through 1990, and
4.0? thereafter were applied.
Revenues
2.       The February 1987 authorized tariff levels were maintained in
constant dollars throughout the projection period. Other operating
revenues, representing about 7? of total revenues, cover the sale over 5
years of water connections, disconnect and reconnect charges and fees.
Financial revenues, after 1986, represent an assumed conservative 52 p.a.
return on cash in excess of normal requirements.
Operating Costs
3.       Personnel costs are based upon labor contracts in effect on
12!31/86 plus an assumed 202 increase retroactive to July 1986. A further
factor of 2.5Z/p.a. real wage increase was included in 1988 and thereafter.
The total number of employees/year was determined in accordance with labor
productivity increases which approximates the real wage increases, plus
cumulative dollar inflation.
4.       Unaccounted-for water is estimated to remain at 30? through 1988,
following which it reduces gradually to 20t by 1994 and remains at that
level thereafter.
5.       Chemical and power costs are 1986 year-end costs/m3 produced, and
maintained at that level thereafter, plus cumulative dollar inflation.
6.       All other operating costs, except provision for doubtful accounts,
have been historically related to number of total connections. The December
1986 unit costs were held constant, and cumulative dollar inflation was
applied.



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
7.       Provision for bad debts is projected at 1/2 of 12 of revenues.
8.       Depreciation is calculated at 4.42 of gross dollar fixed assets in
operation at the beginning of each fiscal year.
9.       Interest on outstanding loans was charged to income in the year
accrued which is the practice SANASA has stated it will adopt in 1987 and
thereafter.
10.      Income tax.  Taxes were computed on the basis of net taxable income
of 62 on the first Cz4O.0 million (US$2.74 million) and at 102 on the
remainder in accordance with 1986 tax legislation.
Long Term Debt
11.      The Bank/CEF debt incurred for the Bank project was computed on the
basis of CEF terms for loans to the State of Sao Paulo which are: (a) 21
years final maturity including up to 3 years grace on principal
amortization; (b) interest at 10.52/p.a. (in real terms) on outstanding
balances due; and (c) principal amortization in 36 semi-annual installments
using the annuity system of repayment. Thus, the fourth year's investment
cost is a separate loan. The municipality Loan of 302 of the project cost
was considered to be a single loan with 4 years grace, 3 years repayment of
principal with interest at 10.52 p.a. The working capital loan taken out in
1987 was amortized in the four following years in equal semi-annual annuity
installments at interest of 10.5% p.a.
12.      The accrued pension liability was handled in accordance with the
agreed repayment plan of 48 installments of Cz281,100 (US$18,929)/month with
18 installments in 1986 (actually paid), 12 in 1987, 12 in 1988 and the
remaining 6 in 1989.
Working Capital
13.      Accounts receivable was maintained at 2 112 months billing (182 of
revenues) throughout the projection period while inventories and other
assets were held at the historical average relationship to operational
costs. Due to suppliers were limited to one month of accrued year's
investment costs, while accounts payable consisted of one month's payroll
plus historical relationships to operating costs.
Investments
15.      Investments, with dollar price contingencies, include the IBRD
project of US$90.7 million (1987-1990), related network investments and a
small water treatment plant of US$77.2 million (1987-1995), and the Phase II
water treatment expansion of US$61.1 million (1994-1997).



-42 -                                 ANNX 9
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
MAZIL
WATER S6TrO  ZMoWr FMOR    ICXPALTIU AN LOW INCOI ARMAS
----------------------------------------------------------
Source and App1 icatien of Funds Statemenwt
Actual Actual Actual -projected --  
194    1968    1966    1967    196    1969          90  1991    1992    19           1994    199
_ --- - -- - - - --  -- ---- -- _- - - --  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---
--------------------- ----------- N CUR  U.S.$ (LLIONS)-       --      -        ----  --------------------
Inlternal Fund.
Net Income                            -0.90   10.29   10.77   1S.4"   13.06   11.15   10.66   12.67   14.82   15.01    13.26
D  rc;ation                            0.66    1.45    1.61    2.86    2.72       5.81    7.29    7.70    6.14    6.61    6.9
InXteret Paid                         0.00    0.00    0.58    0.16    s.66    7.42    7.4"         6.38    5.80    4.,9     6.66
_-- -- ----- -- - - - --  _- -- ---  - -- ---  -- ----- - _-- - --  - ----  --_- - --  _-- ---  - -- ---   - -- ---
Total Internal Funds        NA      -0.04    11.74   18.11   21.04   21.74   24.06   25.60   26.98   27.76    26.85   25.94
_ - -_- ---- ----- -- -- - -- _- -- - - -   _-- -- _- -- -- -- - -- - -_- - --  - -  -_- - - - - -- _- - -- -
mobttingal.
ISAD                                  0.00    0.00    4.86   12.24    9.74    8.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
COg                                    0.00    0.00    2.35    6.26    4.99       1.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
M4unicipality                          0.49    0.55    4.16   11.10    6.63    3.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Phna  It                               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.52   28.41
Workng Capital                         0.00    0.00    4.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
~~~~~~~~- -- -- _- __- -- -- _- -- -- -_- - -- -- _-- - -- - - - - -- - _- - -- _- - -- - _- - - - - - -  - - -- - 
Total Bor.eings             NA       0.49    0.55   15.69   29.60   ".56    8..4    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.82   25.41
,_- --- _- - -- -- _|-- _- - - -- _- -- - -- -  -- -- _- -- - - - _- -- - - - - -    _    
other:
Increce  (D.creu) Taxes             0.07    0.80    0.782    0.2   -0.27   -0.22   -0.04    0.22    0.16    0.07   -0.20
lincrase (Deresea.) Non-FOTM          0.04    0.00    0.10    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
Totel Other                 NA       0.11    0.80    0.81    0.53   -0.26   -0.21   -0.02    0.24    0.18    0.09   -0.16
TOTAL SURCS                     NA       0.66   12.59   29.62   81.17   45.08   82.21   25.88   27.19   27.4    89.16   84.17
APPLCATIONS:
Invetmnt:
Bank ProJect                           0.00    0.00   18.68   87.00   29.4    10.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Other Related                          0.95    1.91    7.60    6.00    7.64    6.01    9.s2    9.97   10.68    6.36    6."
Phit. It                               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.OO    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.88   42.35
=- --_- - -  - -  _-  - -- - -- -_- -- - -- - -- -- -___-          - - -- -- - -- - - - _-   - -
Total Invetment              NA      0.95    1.91   21.66   48.00   87.09   1.44    9.S2    9.97   10.68   25.92   81.22
_-  -  -  - -  --- -   -- - ------ -  - -- - -  -  -  - ---    -  - -----_  - -  - -----  - -   -  - -  -  - -_-_- _- -  _-- ----- -- -- -- -
Debt Service:
Interet Paid                           0.00    0.00    0.68    8.16    8.66    7.42    7.45    6.86    8.80    4.93    6."
16 Principal                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.71    0.71    o.se          1.06    1.17
CEF Principal                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.18    0.17    0.20    0.22    0.25
Itnicipulity Principal                 0.00    0.00    1.4U    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.1S    9.04   10.02    0.00    0.00
Phase II Principal                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Working Capital Principal              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.96    1.09    1.21    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Debt Service          NA       0.00    0.00    1.99    4.16    6.98    9.02   17.61   16.37   16.47    6.21    6.10
Other:
Increase in Other Aeeta                0.07    0.81    0.1S    0.17    0.21    0.19    0.22    0.20    0.19    0.06    0.06
Incrov  (Decree Work. Cap.           -6.72    8.69    5.80    0.64    0.78    4.86   -1.77    O.64    O.6          S.99   -4.21
Rounding A Mon. Corr.                  6.26    4.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Other                 NA      -0.89   10."      5.97    4.01    1.00    4.75   -1.58       0.6U    0.4    7.04   -8.15
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              NA      OS6   12.59   29.62   S1.17   45.08   82.21   28.86   27.19   27.94   89.17   6.17
Debt Service Coverage                                     6.58    8.06    8.18    2.67    1.46    1.6l    1.69    4.60    6.67



-43-                                        MNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
MAIL
WATt SECTOR PROJBT FOR IICIPALXTI AND LOU 1NC0IW ARMS
----------------------_---------------.-------_--_----_--_--
SAM
balance Sheots
Actuxl  Actual Actual   ---------------------------------- Projected------------------------------------
196     1965   196    1967    1"9    19t69    19"        1991    1992    19"     1994    1998
-----------------------_-----------SIN CURIM U.S.$ (MILLIONS)-------------------------------------------
ASSrS:
Current Aa-t-:
Cash & Banks                 0.16    0.06    0.11    0.S6    1.91    1."6    1.46   o0.s    0.49    0.71    0.16    0.26
Marketable Secur;tio         0.16    0.17    0.00    0.00    2.00    2.00    8.00    8.00    3.00    S.00   11.60    6.00
Accounts ec. - Cr.e        1.25    1.67    1.74    5.65    7.30    7.57    8.15    8.6e    9.52   10.13   10.68   11.06
Preov. Doubt. Aeet.         -0.10   -0.12   -0.17   -0.22   -0.81   -0.71   -0.92   -1.14   -1.87   -1.61   -1.64   -2.09
Inventories                  0.63    0.72    o."9    1.20    1.29    1.86    1.45    1.60    1.76    1.93    2.06    2.25
Other Current Amet-          0.42    0.24    0.2t    1.5J    1.97    2.05    2.21    2.39    2.57    2.74    2.86    2.99
Total Current A- t-        2.71    2.74    2.92    6.40   18.96   14.25   17.38   15.05   18.97   16.90   25.36   22.47
FDUD ASSEt:
Operating Plant              33.2i   38.27   41.07   5S.98   68.8   128.03  168.47  174.79  164.76  195.36  203.77  212.64
Rea. for Depn.               -9.96  -11.00  -14.80  -16.61  -18.99  -21.78  -27.30  -34.59  -42.29  -50.44  -59.08  -68.03
Net Operating Aeet-       28.23   22.26   26.26   37.22   44.86  108.24  138.17  140.20  142.46  144.98  14.72  144.61
Work-in-Progrea               2.48    2.84    4.22   13.01   46.59   22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.58   59.66
Not Fixed Asets           25.70   25.11   30.48   50.38   90.95  128.25  186.17  140.20  142.46  144.09  162.25  204.49
OTHB ASSErS:
Long-Toro Receivables         0.18    0.11    0.84    0.88    0.72    0.93    1.12    1.84    1.84    1.74    1.79    1.65
Prepaid Expense               0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Other Asste          0.1S    0.11    0.a9    0.88    0.72    0.93    1.12    1.34    1.84    1.74    1.79    1.63
TOTAL ASSEIS                  28.84   27.96   38.79   89.28  108.68  140.48  156.67  158.89  189.98  168.58  189.40  22t.81
-_m   _aaaa  _aaaa  _aa         _ma   _,           _                _       _         _
LIASiLYrSi6 & SJ1T:
Current Liabilities:
Dut to Suppliers             0.88    0.38    0.61    1.80    3.58    8.09    1.54    0.78    0.63    0.89    2.16    4.27
Accounts Payable             0.14    0.18    1.10    0.82    0.88    0.90    0.96    1.06    1.17    1.28    1.89    1.50
Pension Liability           11.00   11.29    O.6     0.28    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Other                        0.49    0.47    0.47    0.79    0.83    0.68    0.93    1.O    1.14    1.26    1.38    1.48
Current Hat. Long-Tera       0.00    0.00    1.15    0.98    1.09    1.60   10.6    9.99   11.17    1.28    1.42    1.57
Total Current Liabilities   11.96   12.27    3.97    4.62    6.48    6.47   18.78   12.86   14.82    4.71    6.32    8.60
Long Term Liabilitie:
Long-Tore Debt ISM/CEF       0.00    0.00    0.00    5.72   21.01   82.64   36.44   88.65   34.70   38.64   82.46   81.16
Long-Tora CEr                0.00    0.00    0.30    1.20    4.42    6.91    7.67    7.50    7.30    ?.OS    6.63    6.56
Long-Tera iunicipality       0.07    0.52    1.46    4.16   15.26   24.09   19.08   10.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Phase S Loan                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.62   38.98
Working Capital Loan         0.00    0.00    0.00    8.68    2.54    1.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    O.OC    0.00
Deferred Income Tax          0.03    0.07    0.S6    1.07    1.60    1.63    1.11    1.07    1.29    1.48    1.52    1.32
Pension Non-FPTS             0.04    0.05    0.04    0.18    0.14    0.1S    0.16    0.18    0.19    0.21    0.25    0.25
Total Long-Tare Limb.      0.18    O.6      1.66   15.92   44.96   66.66   64.4J   84.42   43.48   42.38   51.87   78.22
Equi ty:
Paid-in-Capital              6.14    5.94   18.40   18.40  1.40   15.40   13.40   13.40   18.40   18.40   13.40   13.40
Capital Resrves             18.22   18.08    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79    9.79
Earned Surplus              -2.91   -8.92    4.79   18.88   31.04   4.12   88.27   66.12   78.90   98.81  108.82  121.60
Total Equity              16.48   18.08   27.97   38.74   84.22   67.81   76.46   69.81  102.18  116.50 1O1.51  14.79
TOTAL LIAILTI3 4 EJITY       26.84   27.96  3S.79   89.28  108.63  140.43  156.67  156.89  159.96  168.56  169.40  226.61
-    -       -       -       -       -~~~~~..-.-.0-       -0-.-                       -
VOINC CAPITAL                 -9.25   -9.53   -1.04    3.78    7.52    7.76    8.60    2.1    1.65   12.19   19.04   13.66
RATE-OF-RErlRN - S             S.65    4.06   -1.02   33.15   43.66   19.64   14.24   1.-2   14.42   14.54   14.U    14.72
DiEBT/EIT - *                  0.79    4.09    6.21   29.12   48.33   49.76   45.09   37.86   29.85   26.67   28.17   34.19



- 44 -
ANNEX 9
BEAZIL                                        Attachment  1
Page 3 of 3
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR HUICIPALITIES A LOW INCOME AREAS
SAMIASA
Ineco. St.toSnts
Actu3l  Actual Actual ----------------------------------Projected.------------------------------------
1964    1965    1966    1987    1986    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
PHYSICAL DATA:
Population Growth - S           S.93     5.93     5.93    6."6    5.75      5.55     5.35    5.15      4.95     4.76    4.60    4.50
Urban Population              765041  810392  656432  90660   960868  101422?  1066849  1123518  1179130  1235139  1291966  1350093
Population Served Water - S    93.13    91.33   33.62   86.82   86.68    89.56    90.50    92.00    93.50    95.00    95.00    98.00
Population Served Water       712502  740095  760711  807053   611641   9065    966963  103S635  1102487  1173382  122735i 126266
Population Served Sever - S    79.16   79.47   76.o3   75.50   75.35   76.13   76.92   76.20    79.48    80.75    80.76   80.75
PopulItion Served Sewor       605629  644001   66e996  685994  72406    772103  821934  8786590   937114   97374  1043284  1090200
No. Water Economias           189322  196546   202470  213666  225737  240714  256260  27S912  292156  310945  325249  339665
No. Sewerage Economias        166807  170996  175117  181788  191676   204606  217812  232625  248334  264303  2-6461   286902
Vol. Water Produced (13 - ES)  74.76    80.87   82.63   90.95   99.47    99.4?   104.39   110.04   115.76   121.54  125.44   131.06
Vol. Water Sold (M3 X ES)      52.44    54.81   S7.63   63.25   69.18   71.61    77.25   83.63    90.29    96.02   100.3S  104.86
Unaccounted-for-Water - S      29.86    32.22   30.26    30.46   30.48    28.00   26.00   24.00   22.00    21.00    20.00   20.00
Vol. Sewage Billed (M3 x ES)   44.57   46.59    48.98   53.77    68.80   60.67   65.66    71.09    76.75   81.62    85.30   89.13
No. Employees - year-end        1434    14I4      1467    147S    1499    1533    1575    1643         1711    1771    180S    18S6
No. Water Conn.- year-end     12S199  131604   136559   144507  152526   162644  173142  168076   197404  210098  219763  229652
No. Sewer Conn.-year-end      110978   113768  116600   121042  127760   138236  145029   155025  165352  17598S  184060   192363
Employees/1000 Water Conn.     11.19    10.97   10.74    10.21     9.83     9.43     9.10     8.86    6.67    8.43    6.20       7.99
-I------------ __--------------------N QJIRENT U.S.6 (MILLIONS)--------------------               -
Water 8 Tariffs                 2.83    3.18    3.08   16.76   21.66   22.42   24.19    26.19    28.27    30.06    31.47   32.83
Sewerage S Tariffs              1.68    1.8S    3.83   11.17   15.05   15.68    16.81    18.20    19.68    20.89    21.83   22.82
Other Operating Revenues        1.02     1.12     1.51    2.60    2.74    2.92       3.11     3.33     3.88     3.78    3.95    4.13
Financial Revenues              0.92    0.63    0.42    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.25    0.16    0.15            0.16    0.58    0.40
Orms Revenues                6.45     6.77    10.55   30.53   39.55   41.03    44.36    47.86    81.62    54.88    57.78   60.18
OPERATING COSTS:
Personnel                       2.74     3.09     6.10    10.31    10.68    11.48    12.22    13.82    14.94    16.40    17.71    19.12
Chemicals                       0.10    0.11    0.40    0.71       0.79     0.60     0.84    0.92      1.00     1.09     1.16     1.26
Maint. Material                 0.45    0.68    0.93       1.46     1.56    1.68     1.80     1.99     2.20    2.42      2.62    2.84
Power & Energy                  0.53     0.61    0.96      1.93    2.13    2.15    2.28    2.48    2.70    2.94    3.14    3.40
Other 3rd Party Coats           0.20    0.22    0.36    0.97    0.53    0.71         0.80    0.92      1.05     1.20     1.34     1.45
Adm. Expenses                   0.19     0.16    0.45    0.73    0.77    0.63    0.90    0.99          1.10     1.21     1.31     1.41
Fiscal Expenses                 0.04     0.05    0.09    0.09      0.11     0.12     0.13    0.14      0.15    0.17     0.18    0.20
Prov. for Doubt. Accte.         0.06    0.09      O.C9    0.18    0.19    0.20    0.21        0.22     0.23     0.24    0.24    0.24
Total Operating Costs        4.32    5.01      9.87   16.38    16.92   17.96    19.17    21.19    23.37   25.67   27.71   29.91
OP9RATINO PROFIT                 2.14     1.76     1.18   14.18   22.63   23.07   25.19   26.67   28.24    29.22   30.08   30.27
Depreciation                    0.86     0.66     1.45    1.81    2.38    2.79       5.51    7.29      7.70    8.14      8.61    8.98
PROFrT BEFORE FINANCIAL A MISC    1.81    0.91   -0.27    12.67   20.26    20.27    19.68    19.38    20.54    21.07    21.48   21.28
Interest Payable                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55    3.18    5.86         7.42    7.45    6.38       5.30    4.93     6.68
Financial Costs                 0.14    0.A2    0.75
Income Tax                      0.03    0.05    0.56    1.07       1.60     1.33     1.11     1.07     1.29     1.45    1.52     1.32
Special Charge*/(Credits)      -2.10    -1.34    11.86    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
NET INCOME                      -0.92   -0.86    10.29   10.77   15.48    13.06    11.15   10.8S   12.87    14.32   1S.01    13.26
_eaigai-7.6 6.    1                    .        .        .     5        60        _6_     6        64.
Operating Ratio - S             79.611    U.60   102.53   59.411   411.79    10.59    5.54    6'1.61   IRI.21   61.61   62.86   64.l3



- 45 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1.       CEF's principal activity, prior to its absorption of BNH, was
mortgage lending from its savings deposits. It had over US$14 billion
equivalent in assets, more than 20 million savings accounts, about 800,000
mortgage loans, and 38,000 full-time and 15,000 part-time employees. Its 26
state agencies operate as profit centers and manage the branches in a highly
decentralized manner. CEF administers the Government sponsored Social
Assistance Fund (FAS) and the Program of Social Tntegration (PIS) which are
funded from the proceeds of federal lotteries and business taxes,
respectively.
2.       CEF's accounting is computerized and reliable.  Its annual
financial statements are examined by the Secretary of Internal Control
(SECIN) of the Ministry of Finance, and are also audited by an external,
internationally recognized, auditing firm. Its audited financial statements
for the years 1982 through 1985, and for 1986 including BNH are attached.
The former BNH Operations Division of the Sanitation Finance System (COSAN)
was transferred intact as a CEF department (DESAN), reporting to the
Director of Sanitation and Urban Development. All personnel, as well as the
PLANASA financing systems and records, were transferred to DESAN and the
continuity of PLANASA has been assured by CEF. Based on the evaluation of
CEF's financial, technical, and administrative capacity, all prior Bank
loans to BNH have been amended to reflect CEF's assumption as the Borrower.



-.46-                                          ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
WATi SOCT  PGJr MR UW-INCSM AMU  Ns  4MICIPALTIS
CAMK E@OUCA POW"L
IN UN (LU") AM U
 ow     -I       le" -16 I e"I                       I          
__ _ _ I_ _  I  Amoun  D_ _ __ _  I  A_____  __ _ _  I   _______  __ _ _  I  A_____  __ _ _
AMPS:                                          I                 IiI
Ceah eN  Other.                117.26    2.16 1   11.2     0.31 1  26.64    0.24 1  82.04    0.26 1 18.48    0.39
InteSuani  (Wet)               106.07    0.14 1  41.67    0.36 1 107.68    0.91 1 L.4.65    1.06 1 267.06    0.75
Lome Reselvable              1841.U1   SO.7  1 0467.40    2.26  0630.04   63.92 110480.21   61.83 12OS4.51   6.26
Other Receivable               no0.7     0.91 1 401.22    S.44 1 359.0       .04 1 421.05    3.26 I 122.25    3.48
C.rtfieetee & Land            U2.011  12.00 1 1110.67    0.53 I  11.61    7.71 1 121.76    9.97 I 8840.62    9.06
Ienveet_nt                     73.39    0.44 1 126.76    1.10 1 127.02    1.06 1 129.85    1.01 1 809.36    0.67
Net Fixed Met.                473.68    2.1L I MY7.1i    2.S1 1 $49.84    2.98 I  89.01    2.79 1 440.12    1.24
Prepaid & beferred              24.84    0.13 I  21.14    0.1S I  17.86    0.1S I  18.4"    0.12 1  13.25    0.04
--        -         I _ --__    _ I_-_ --  ----I   I -    ----   - - --- I  ------ _____
TOTMAL ASSES               16813.    100.00 111654.67  100.00  1.6iO. 68  100.00 112154.87  100.00  U54U3.63  100.00
_      -    I   _       _   I   -         _   I   _         _                 -  
* wJmt                    ~       ~        ~~I  I             I                 I
LIADIL11IM&  Jrrn t                                                               I                 I
Taxe A Social Services         102.81    0.62 1  47.15    0.40 1  81.87    0.44 1  67.61    0.53 I  62.69    0.2S
Depeeltn                     12180.68   73.5  1 6626.15   74.08 1 6002.81   78.14 1 916.90   77.18 128749.89   61.02
Lien Payable                  1462.78    6.86 1 1146.98    9.64 1 1187.89   10.04 1 1170.09    9.10 1 1381.57    3.69
funda a Preeiolne             10664.21    6.4"1  806.16    4.83 I 863.89    8.11 I 861.16    2.66 I 8188.62    6.69
Loteries                        4.73    0.03 1   1.68    0.01 I   1.10    0.01 1   1.25    0.01 1   0.72    0.00
EquIty                        1726.76   10.4  I 1325.71   11.87 I 1382.66   11.26 1 180.44   10.35 1 2113.45    8.9
_-- --I               - __   --- I -____- - _    _     ----- I  __________  I__
TOTAL LiLITI  a   iwr      16813.68  100.00 111654.76  100.00 1116881.68  100.00 11264.68  100.00 135403.64  100.00
-   -    I   -        -~~awwss I   -    - u-w                  I 
Veer-mnd rate                    0.25              0.9W              3.16             10.49             14.67
SiCOME STATOSO
IN UU (MILLIONS) NO S
-----------------------Nclude   -------------------------------    Includes DN
192       1      19"        1      1964       1      1908      1       1968
I                I____________     I-  ---  I    -______----_   I  -------------
Amount,         I mount      S   I Amount     S   I Aount       U    I Amount     U
i s                               ~         ~       ~        ~        ~        ~        ~~I  I  I  I
Lmen Interet                  6748.16   01.06 I 6064.35   68.76 1 7068.58   67.96 1 7839.91   86.7 16 637.81   S1.11
Investment Income             1162.69   14.13 I 689."      9.80   684.40    6.16 1 748.96    6.. 1 669.61   10.82
AdeInietrativ  Ine_           310.16    2.53 I 12.07    1.73 1 107.10    1.34 I 121.17    1.89 1 286.76    8.40
Other                          110.02    1.34 1 227.34    3.20 1 201.66    2.S2 I 301.94    8.47 1 436.81    S.16
-    _---            - _----  I    ----I   I-----   - _-----
TOTAL OPATINS  idV6J        6227.73  100.00 1 7004.03  100.00 I 0I6s.0   100.00 I 6710.00  100.00 I 6430.2S   100.00
-------1~~- ---- --           - -------                     I- ---       ---
rnmom:~~~~~~~~~_ ___  I _ _____I ____    __I ________I ___ ___
Crdit. toe Depuelte           3776.31   70.21 I 8147.15   72.88 I 8943.99   74.21  S 6470.25   74.29 1 8747.76    U.1s
0et intereet                   306.0    6.11 I 810.41    7.32 1 6.48    0.48 1 694.15    7.97 1 474.15    8.62
Other                         1144.35   13.04 1 738.0a   10.8 I 7S2.2iC    0.76 I 9w1.04   10.92 1 1484.11   17.01
_ _-  l- _--I- - - -- -I- -- - -- l- -I----I---
TOTAL OPWTDI O              7426.0  e0.2s I 6424.50   0O.5 1 7409.70   02.48 1 611S.41   96.17 1 7686.02   90.02
- - I _- -I-  I --- -- I _ 
Operating Profit               S01."4    .73 I 670.53    9.48 I S07.2i    7.7 I 594.59    6.63 1 74.21    0.1i
on-OperatIng (net)               S."6    0.06 I   1.iU3    0.0  I   1.04    0.01 I   3.40    0.04 1   7.41    0.09
Mnetary Correctien             -442.47   -s.as I -438.25   -.12 1 -881.07    4.67 1 -844.08   -6.25 1 -764.48   -9.07
_ --- I _-_-    l              _--- __I -.--  - -I-- -  ----_---I
NUT DC"                      841.68    4.42 I 267.91    3.35 I  87.22    0.71 I  8s."6    0.62 1  17.17    0.20
_ aa.. I   -   _                 I                 I _ I   -    -    I  _ -



- 47 -
ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
Tentative Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year              Quarterly
and Quarter Ending          Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ million)       (US$ million)    Z of Total
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                7.00                7.00              8.0
December 31, 1988                18.35               25.35             31.7
March 31, 1989                    5.16               30.51             38.1
June 30, 1989                     5.17               35.68             44.6
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                5.59               41.27             51.6
December 31, 1989                 5.60               46.87             58.6
March 31, 1990                    3.45               50.32             62.9
June 30, 1990                     3.44               53.76             67.2
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                3.20               56.96             71.2
December 31, 1990                 4.24               61.20             76.5
March 31, 1991                    2.08               63.28             79.1
June 30, 1991                     2.16               65.44             81.8
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                2.16               67.60             84.5
December 31, 1991                 Z.08               69.68             87.1
March 31, 1992                    1.36               71.04             88.8
June 30, 1992                     1.28               72.32             90.4
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                1.36               73.68             92.1
December 31, 1992                 1.28               74.96             93.7
March 31, 1993                    1.28               76.24             95.3
June 30, 1993                     1.28               77.52             96.9
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                1.20               78.72             98.4
December 31, 1993                 1.28               80.00            100.0



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
Monitoring Indicators
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Cperational:
Employees/1000
connections            10.2       9.8       9.4     9.1      8.9     8.7
Population served
Water - 7              88.8      88.7      89.6    90.5    92.0    93.5
Population served
Sewer - Z              75.5      75.4      76.1    76.9    78.2    79.5
Unaccounted-for
Water Z                30.5      30.5      25.1    24.0    23.0    21.9
Financial:
Operating
Ratio - Z              59.5      48.8      50.6    55.6    59.5    60.2
Debt/Equity - 7          29.1      45.3      49.8    45.1    37.9    29.9
Debt Service
Coverage                6.6       5.1       3.1     2.7      1.4      1.7
Low-Income Component
Water Connections - No       -        -   11,000  11,000  11,000   8,000
Dwelling with Waste
Water Installa-                                                                                                x
tions - NO               -         -   38,000  38,000  38,000  36,000
In-house Sanitary
Installations - N0       -         -    3,500   3,500   3,000   2,500



-49 -                                        ANNEX  13
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
WATER  PROJECT  FOR MUNICIPALITIES  AND  LOW-INCrIE  AREAS
Economic and Social Analysis
COPINAS POPUATION SERVED: TOTAL AM  LOW INC0E GROUM
1 9 8 7                  1 9 9 5                 1967-1995
SECTOR
TOTAL    LOW-INCOME      MTAL    LOW-INCME        TOTAL    LO-INOE
1       30870                    382                       8012
2       21216                    26122                     4906
3       2456                     39001                     12545
4       27478                    39012                     11534
5       41746                    74503                    32757
6       28125          625       36922         7384        8797         17S
7       39927        31941       509          40075        10167        8134
29867                           37665                     7798
9       32196            9       5009         12522        17893        4473
10       28517                    40137                     11620
i1       74995       63746       153073       130112       78076        66366
12      114063       96970       220741       187629      106i6D        90659
13       68109       23M8        122393        4237        544          18999
14       38348                    53030                    14682
15       22876                    3090                      8024
16       32847                    4036                      7689
17       469         46295        56539        56S39       10844        104
18       420          10521       583          14584       1624          4063
19       21363         2136       ya0             00       14641         1464
20       19259         289        45927         689        266           4XO
21        2212         2212        3724         3724         1512        1512
22        1035         1035        2069         2069         1034        1034
23        5426                     12029                     6601
84       11721         2930       14861         3715        3140          785
TTAL        807053       296187      128288       511681       47553       213494



-50-                                  ANNEX 13
FPge 2 of 7
Service Type and evel
Marginal Cost
Wat.r                       Sewerage
Production         Distribution         Collection
Description       Unit
Before   After    Bfore    After       Before   After
Loooss   Loose.   Loam    Losos        Losse    Losses
1.  Capacity              CU/Ms                   3.46      3.48     4.51       5.64      1.51     1.51
2.  Volume                CZI/m                    *.11     0.11     0.42      0.5         --
3.  Equivalent volume    CZ$/mS                   3.59      S.59     4.98      6.17       1.61     1. 5
4.  Hook-up               C25/connection          n/a       n/a      847.65    347.65    1190.08  1190.08
S.  Hook-up               CZf/customer             n/a      n/.      572.74    572.74    793.83   798.33
6. Hook-up                CZU/cuotomor-month       n/.      n/a      6.46       5.45      7.56     7.56
7.  Customer              CZU/customer-month      n/.       n/a      56.42      56.42     16.61    16.61
S.  Equivalent customer  CU/customer-month        n/a       n/a      61.84      61.84     24.17    24.17
Assumptions:
1)  Opportunity cost of capital of IIX.
2)  Marginal capacity costs have been estimated using the long-run avergeg
Incremental cost concept (LRAIC).
3)  Invostmnt costs In water troatment and transmission, as well an the
cost of the unaccounted water control wer. considered in calculating
the marginal capacity cost (MCC) of production.
4) The MCC at the distribution level was obtained by adding the VCC In
resrvoirs and distribution pipes to tho MCC at the production level.
5)  Marginal capacity costs before losses were multiplied by adjustmnt
fctors equal to 1.00 and 1.26 to obtain the after losseo marginal
capacity costa at the production and distribution levels, respectively.
6)  The Investment cost of collectors relative to the water consumption
level of the customers with sewerage service was used for calculating
the UCC of collection.
7)  Marginal volume costs (MVC) at the production level ar- equal to the
average cost of chemical materials used for water treatment
(CZS0.11/mg), and, at the distribution level, ar, equal to the
production MVC plus the cost of the electrical energy required for
pumping the troated water (CZSO.11/m3 + CZ50.42/mS).
8) Equivalent MVC simply result from adding the marginal capacity and
volum costs. The same factors used for adjusting MCC before losses to
MCC after loosss were used for adjusting MVC.
9)  Marginal hook-up costs for both watr supply and sverago  services were
assumed to be equal to SANASA o estlate acverage costa. To put those
costs on a monthly basis, an annuity was calculated employing an annual
discount rate of 11  and a useful life of  0 yoers.
10) Marginal customer costs were calculated using Incremental
administrative, operation, and maintenance (AOM) costa, and lecremental
number of water and sowerage custoers. Water supply service was
assigned SOX of all Incremental AOM costs, while sewerage *rvice was
assigned the remaining 20X. AOM costa are prosented In Annex A (Table
A.4).
11) Marginal equivalent customer costa equal the sum of the hook-up and
customer costs.



51 -                                         ANNEX  13
P.Age 3 of 7
SS' S WATER RATE SDEEJLE AS W  DEC SER  1366  1/ 2/
C A T E S O R Y
WATER  IJMPTIGN
DOESTIC           PUILIC          COSERCIAL          INDUSTIIL
n3/user-month
NC 2/    RATES   NC 2/    RATES  OK  2        RATES  OK  2/   RATES
FRM       TO      CZS/Msar CS/u3  CZ$/usw  CZ$/s3 CZ/uswr CZS/s3 CZ$/usw   CZU/.3
UP  TO  12           4.63               4.63             19.46             23.16
13   -   20                    1.49              1.49             3.67               5.29
21  -   30                     .386              1.36             3.67               5.29
31  -   40                     3.39              3.84              6.40              6.46
41  -   50                    3.86.              4.17              6.95              7.02
IE THAN50                      4.67              4.67              7.79              8.22
1/ Ruilutiord  No.09/86 authorized i        - ,IPly themu ratu starting h r mtna 19, 166.
2/ NC a Niniulu Monothly Charge
SRSAiS WATER AND SCERA   EWJLIE   .    RATES AT OECBR, 1966  I/
C a T E 6 0 R Y
WATER CONSLJtPTION
DCESTIC           PU LIC         CON6ERCIfL          INDliJTRaiL
m3/usar-uonth
9'6C2/W&SER  EIC 2IWISER V DECK2/ IIIER / DECK2/ WISER 31
FROM      TO      CZ$/usr CZSI3  CZ$/user CZ$3   CZS/uwr CZS/3 Cd  /user  CZS/13
UP   TO  12           6.33              8.33             35.03             41.69
13   -  20                    2.68              2.68              6.61              9.52
21   -   30                    1.35              3.35             6.61               3.52
31  -  40                     6.39              6.91              11.52             11.63
41   -  50                    6.35               7.51             12.51             12.64
NMD  THR  50                    41              8.41              14.02             14.80
1/ Water and e u rap have equivalent rate structure;   wap raten awe 80% of the  6etw rat6.
2/ EINC a Equivalent Ninim   Nonthly Charge
3/ WISER ' Water and S_wra_ Fquivalent Rate



-52-                                             ANNEX  3
Page 4 of 7
SWSWI MSUNRKI CISU INPTI04, SILLS, AM TARIFFS AS OF DECEIUR, 1906. 1/
COSTDERS    WATER COIJtPTION    AVERAGE         AVEAE BILL   AVERAGE PRICE
Cmml                           thousands *3/oonth   WATER    CZS/custo..?-uonth    CZ$/s3
'-~~ ~-     -  COSLlPTION --__
l10T      %      TOTAL      $    r3/custoser   WATER    wiS    WATER    waS
1. RESIDEfTflL            179413    88.6    3736    76.1           20.8   76.63   137.85    3.68    6.62
2. COUlElIRL               2073t    10.2      656     13.4          31.6   28.49   465.41     8.17    14.71
3. PUJLIC                   1147     0.6      205      4.2         178.7  761.38  1369.05    4.26    7.66
4. INDISI .L                1176     0.6      314      6.4        267.0 2395.05  4309.49    8.97    16.14
5. TOTaL V /2470    100.0   'p911   100.0                           24.3  112.79  203.02      4.65    8.37
I/ CZ$ a D.eug.  IM, iimv USS 1.00 a Cit 14.58.
2/ So totals my apqw to be slightly in ermr due to rounding.



ANNEX  13
Page 5 of 7
SNSITlVITY OF TIE CINA  CONPOET  IRR TO C2QES IN
COSTS MiD RVEN.S
COST CDaE
RIEVkE
aW                   r0%                        + 10%
WATER  SEWERAE   W&S    WATER  SEWEMRE    WAS
0%         4.3    22.4       8.4      2.7    19.4       6.9
- 10%         2.5    19.1       6.7      0.7    16.4       S 1
- 20%         0.2     15.9      4.6    -0.2      13.5      3.1
SENSITIVITY OF TIE CA3PINPS CONENT IRR TO CHANWES IN
THE ETHMD FOR CALCL.ATING BENEFITS
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
SERVICE
ALT. I  AT. II  ALT. 11  ALT. IV
WATER                      3.4      4.3      8.4      4.6
SEWER6E                   22.3    22.4        48    22.3
WATER & SERAGE             7.6      8.4    13.3       8.7



SANASA'S WATER TREATMENT CAPACITY AND PRODUCTION
,~~~~~~
SMIA$X  ISCRE1MUTAI.
ALT. IC  AIMA ACE
.. __ _           _                _        ALT. It . AEA  AC f
`        'j`l "             ALT. "    Ag  I GAS
04ALT. IV i ./EA A0
-                                                     j                MAJAL flv% -
as ~       ~        A /_'                                 E ___  4                               OCW (*Adt7r
- ~~~~~~~.                                                  kf                      -|
t'3B4 55' 8s' B1 8'' 87O9' 91  ' % 3' 94' 95 96' 9T' 989'oo '  ol' oa' 03' 0406'    '                                , 



-55-                                         ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 7
LOW-INCE CODP"    SENSITIVITY OF IRR TO D WIES IN COSTS AN MRES
COST OVE
Ola                      0%                                        + 10%
WlATER    SBE9        COSINED          WATER       9BERAE        COUIED
0%           15.3          12.9          11.6          13.4          11.5          10.5
- 10%          13.3          11.3          10.2          11.6           9.9          10.0
- W%           11.2           9.6           66            9.6           6.2           7.4



- 56-                              ANNEX 14
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND LOW INCOME URBAN AREAS
PROJECT FILE
A.   Low Income Urban Areas
1.     PROSANEAR - Manual de Operacionalizacao
2.     Censo Demografico 1980 - Fundacao IBGE
Familias Residentes - Rendimento Medio Mensual
3.     Proposed Brazil Low-Cost Water and Sanitation Project
Identification Mission - B.O.R.. - Tim Campbell
4.     Programa de Infra-Estrutura Urbana Habitacao para a Populacao
Carente - Ministerio da Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambeiente.
5.     Evaluation of a Low-Cost Sanitation Program in Brazil Almeida-Lapa.
6.     PROSANEAR - Componente Estudo, Pesquisas e Assistencia Tecnica.
B.     Campinas Component
1.     Ampliacao do Sistema de Abastecimento de Agua de Campinas
2.     Analise Sumaria da Situacao Atual e das Necesidades Immediatas e
Futuras do Sistema de Abastecimento de Agua da Cidade de Campinas.
3.     Documento de Pedido de Financiamento da la Fase do Programa de
Desenvolvimento Operacional-PEDOP SANASA - Campinas.
4.     Municipality of Campinas - Financial Documents.
5.     SANASA's Tariff Structure for Water and Sewerage.
6.     SANASA's financial statements.
7.     SANASA's investment and financing plans.
8.     Computer Disc's containing several financial and technical tables
included in the SAR.
9.     Economic and Social Analysis.
10.    DAEE's authorization to SANASA to draw additional water from the
Atibaia river.
6/10188



MAP SECTION



_______________________....        ___ _  _______  ___    _                    IBRD  20428R
Lu. '                                   ?                                                     8 R A Z I L
t  V E N E Z U E L A   /                                         WATER SECTOR PROJECT
FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND
GUYANA .                                   LOW INCOME AREAS
AFRENCH
* ,? )       /        i GUIANA
COLOMBIA                                .       S JRINAME?     /
|      - \           i   \1   g   '        -M-%--                                       A  g / O r,Rok MA 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         t           JUMANAAPA
A M A       Z O  N  A5J              /     P A R  A:
h   >  ~~~~~~<Nr                                             t         '1   ,,-/                      oLGK 
CE   tNAMRIO
P E RU                  \ VRONC6NIA              M A TO                110721              A       A    S'SERIIPE'
),  J   G R O S S O           11341U              A   I A           \
< _ ..I                                               I A  I  A  I' \)
/7       -    (586t                 b                      A      /
J  GOIAS        3234~~~t- LAOA   L
RoNONIA                                                            E~~~~~~~ ElAILA
Urban Population by Thousands:   BOLIVIA    (   MATO GROSSO*, ,     ____.............> M I N A S G E R AI S ( 
E Low Incomze                         00>t SUL_   ...     .        ....... 1 53381  4 ESP 
200 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 1665  Tol                   gSAOPAULO-  (                67    jSANTo
thon 50,000 Inhobit.nts, bryso .Iin I.985.  *              /  ,_7 0260 i                            I._ ..._ IOD
NQ doto ,rvoiIabiq for # Ihe Shh of Acr., Amop5   AAG  *    ' PARANA '*  e 0~  ~     JAEIR
ond Ronddnlo.                         ARAGUA             , 242 1                       1       
J~~~~~Z~
*S  NatIonal Capital                                       5 1 _ 
- - State Boundaries                     91                              ---_ CAO
._  Intern tonal Boundarbis l5Nv
.t  RIO GRANDE   | 
ARGENTINA j            D0 su-1                        J    ILES
N3O   -       11 b.sfv o A-N..P6PAI
) URUGUAAY                     PINAS
13166            11079~~~~~~~~~~~SE 18
70 Natota Capitalf
State Boundaries            NA~~~~~~



