Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16679
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIOL
WATER PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALTES AND LOW-INCOME AREAS
(LOAN-2983-BR)
June 11, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Cz$ 263.9 (Cruzado) (1988)
US$1.00 = NCz$ 2.86 (Cruzado Novo) (1989)
US$1.00 = NCz$ 68.95 (Cruzado Novo) (1990)
US$1.00 = Cr$ 403.83 (Cruzeiro) (1991)
US$1.00  Cr$ 4492.62 (Cruzeiro) (1992)
US$1.00 = CR$ 88.46 (Cruzeiro Real) (1993)
US$1.00 = R$ 0.93 (Real) (1994)
US$1.00 = R$ 0.92 (Real) (1995)
US$1.00 = R$ 1.00 (Real) (1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANI ACRONYMS
BNH           Banco Nacional de Habitacao
CAGECE        Companhia de Agua e Esgoto de Ceara
CEF           Caixa Economica Federal
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA       Plano Nacional de Saneanento
PROSANEAR Programa de Saneamento para Populacao de Baixa Renda
SANASA        Sociedade de Abastecimento de Agua e Saneamento
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SEPURB        Secretariat of Urban Policy
TWUWS         Water and Sanitation Division, Transport, Water, and Urban Development
Departmnent, World Bank
Vice President             Shahid Javed Burki
Director                   Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief             Asif-Faiz
Task Manager               Alexander Bakalian



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND
LOW-INCOME AREAS
(LOAN 2983-BR)
Contents
Preface ..............i
Evaluation Summary ..............ii
Part I       Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective
A. Project Identity                    .I
B. Background .1
C.    Project Objectives and Description       .3
D. Project Design                     .5
E.  Project Implementation                .6
F. Project Results .10
G.  Project Sustainability .15
H. Bank Perforance .15
I.  Borrower Performance .16
J. Lessons Leamed .16
K.    Bank-Borrower Relationship .19
L.  Consulting Services .20
M.   Project Documentation and Data .20
N.  The Challenges Ahead .20
Part II      Statistical Annexes
Table 1.     Summary of Assessments .22
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans .24
Table 3.   Project Timetable .25
Table 4.  Project Scope .26
Table 4A.    Water Supply and Sewerage Subprojects         27
Table 5.     Implementation Arrangement.28
Table 6.  Project Costs .29
Table 7.   Project Financing .30
Table 8.   Loan Disbursements.                             3 1
Table 9.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds .32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 10.          Areas of Intervention for Subprojects ....................  33
Table 11 A.    Financial Statements .............................                     35
Table 1 B.    Balance Statements ..............................                      36
Table 11 C.        Income Statements ..............................                   37
Table 12.          Rate of Return (Campinas Component) .................. 38
Table 12A.  Rate of Return (PROSANEAR Component) ........  39
Table 13.   Monitoring Indicators                               ... 40
Table 14.          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................        41
Table 15.          Bank Resources: Missions ..............................            42
Table 16.          Studies Included in the Project .............................   43
Table 17.          Status of Legal Covenants .............................            44
Appendixes:                 A. Borrower's Comments on ICR ......................                         45
B. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND
LOW-INCOME AREAS
(LOAN 2983-BR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Brazil's Water Project for
Municipalities and Low-Income Areas, for which Loan 2983-BR in the amount of US$80
million was approved on June 29, 1988, and became effective on February 23, 1989.
After three extensions of the closing date by a total of two and a half years, the loan was
closed on December 30, 1996, frlly disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Alexander Bakalian, Consultant, and Abel Mejia, Senior Water
Engineer, LA1IU. Gobind T. Nankani, AsifFaiz, and Orville Grimes are the Country
Director, Division Chief, and Projects Adviser responsible for this report. The Task
Manager for project appraisal was Emilio Rodriguez, assisted by Robin Bates
(Economist), Luis Chang (Engineer), Carlos Velez (Economist), and Charles Todd
(Financial Analyst). The Task Managers during implementation were Emilio Rodriguez
(1989-92), Abel Mejia (1992-94), Philip Owusu (1994-95), and Alexander Bakalian
(1995-96). Staff from TWUWS, including John Briscoe, Vijay Jagannathan, and
Alexander Bakalian, contributed to project implementation during 1991-94. The Division
Chiefs were Muhan Munasinghe (1989), Gobind T. Nankani (1990-91), and AsifFaiz
(1992-96). The Borrower provided comments to this ICR that are included as Appendix
A.
Preparation of this ICR began during the last supervision mission in October 1996. It is
based on materials in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by submitting its own evaluation of project preparation and implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND
LOW-INCOME AREAS
(LOAN 2983-BR)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
The project was designed as a pilot operation to extend water supply and
sanitation services to poor urban communities (the PROSANEAR component) and
provide direct operational and financial assistance to a municipal water company (the
Campinas component). The project had four main objectives: a) improving the health and
environmental conditions of very low-income populations living in peripheral urban areas
by providing water supply, sewerage, and in-house sanitary installations, and by improving
solid waste collection and stormwater drainage; b) satisfying the urgent demand for
potable water in the municipality of Campinas, including service to low-income
consumers; c) helping the Government establish an appropriate system to finance and
implement subprojects in peripheral urban areas and to extend the concepts underlying the
National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) to autonomous municipalities; and d) making more
efficient use of financial resources by applying appropriate subproject selection criteria and
using low-cost technologies.
Project Implementation
The project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated that the project would be
implemented during 1987-93. However, the first subloan agreements for the
PROSANEAR component were signed (with the CEF and sub-borrowers) three years
after appraisal, in November 1990. Physical implementation started in 1992. Since the
PROSANEAR component had almost no disbursement until early 1992, the Bank
considered canceling this part of the loan. In February 1992 a Bank mission reviewed the
project and recommended that the PROSANEAR component be continued for six more
months, subject to compliance with agreed benchmarks for each participating utility.
Actions taken at the time included a) hiring experienced local consultants to finalize the
preparation of subprojects, with intensive participation from beneficiary communities; b)
deploying additional supervision resources, including better-defined participation of Bank
staff from TWUWS and development of a detailed monitoring system; c) strengthening
the coordinating functions of the CEF unit in Brasilia; and d) defining clear targets for
future supervision missions.



iii
At appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$190.7 million-US$100 million
for the PROSANEAR component and US$90.7 million for the Campinas component-
including civil works, materials, equipment, technical assistance, and contingencies (Table
6). Final project costs reached US$277.1 million, with US$182.2 million for the
PROSANEAR component and US$94.9 million for the Campinas component. The costs
of the PROSANEAR component increased because it reached a larger number of
beneficiaries than was estimated at appraisal. Final beneficiaries will total about 0.8 million
and 0.9 million people for water supply and sanitation respectively, compared with the
expected 0.2 million and 0.7 million (Table 4A). The per capita costs of PROSANEAR's
two subprojects fluctuated widely but were mostly below the agreed limits of US$98 for
water supply and US$140 for sewerage. Per capita costs for the PROSANEAR
component averaged US$88 for water supply and US$108 for sewerage. Total costs for
the Campinas component remained within the expected range even though the cost of the
treatment plant doubled, partly because of incomplete designs and inaccurate estimates.
This additional cost was compensated by lower than estimated costs for other
subcomponents.
Project Results
Despite implementation difficulties and initial delays, the PROSANEAR
component achieved-and in many cases surpassed-all its stated physical objectives. As
a pilot project testing the applicability of appropriate technologies and community
participation methodologies, these positive results have led to the adoption of the
PROSANEAR concept into a national program. Once all of PROSANEAR's subprojects
have been completed, close to one million people will have been given access to water
supply and sanitation systems. Moreover, these services will be provided at a lower cost
than was initially envisaged. The key lesson of this component is that the model tested-
community participation and low-cost technologies-is the only viable delivery option for
extending services to densely populated low-income areas.
In the Campinas component the initial and final scope of work were essentially the
same, and all works were completed. The only changes to the original scope were the
elimination of a reservoir and the inclusion of a booster pump in the network. From an
operational point of view, as measured by an employee productivity index, the
performance of SANASA, the Campinas water company, was less than satisfactory.
SANASA's index (about 10) is below the average for Brazil's twenty-seven municipal
water companies. This poor performance reflects the political environment in which both
state and municipal public water utilities operate. The other main operational indicator,
unaccounted-for water, was about 30 percent at the close of the project. Although this
level is higher than the 20 percent estimated at appraisal, it reflects better performance
than most water companies in Brazil. In retrospect, the SAR forecast of 20 percent was
overly optimistic. Using tariff rates as a proxy for benefits, the rate of return was re-
estimated at 9.03 percent; the SAR estimate was 8.4 percent. One of the main lessons of



IV
this component is that the technical and operational performance of SANASA, a municipal
water company, is generally better than that of most state water companies because it is
closer to its customers.
Project Sustainability
The benefits of the PROSANEAR component are expected to be long-lasting. In many of
the component's subprojects (such as those in Rio and Belem) the operation and
maintenance of the new systems will be carried out by private operators. In Ceari
maintenance has been entrusted to local residents who are trained, equipped, and paid by
CAGECE, the state water company. The momentum created and experience gained by the
various implementing agencies in expanding services to low-income areas should generate
additional positive outcomes in terms of further expanding service and improving project
methodologies. Moreover, the concept of clustering families within a low-income area
(condominiums) provided an effective organizational framework at the sublocal level that
generated many benefits to the community beyond the physical benefits of the project.
One challenge future PROSANEAR projects will face relates to policy options on
cost recovery (tariffs and subsidies). Another challenge will be integrating water supply
and sanitation design and operation with other municipal services such as drainage and
solid waste management. For example, in some low-lying flood-prone areas without
drainage (such as Fortaleza and Belem) there is concern that residents will try to solve
their drainage problems by letting stormwater into the sewerage network, leading to major
operational problems.
In the Campinas component, SANASA's highly qualified technical staff are
expected to adequately operate and maintain the new facilities, given the company's good
track record. However, long-term sustainability will be guaranteed only by a profound
reform of the water supply and sanitation sector, implying the separation of operational
and regulatory functions and the introduction of competition and private participation to
create the right incentives for efficiency.
Lessons Learned
PROSANEAR component
Project design and implementation
* Utilities have limited experience and assign low priority to water and sanitation in
poor areas. Most utilities have little experience with projects aimed at extending
services to poor areas, and often are reluctant to adopt low-cost technologies and
build partnerships with community organizations. To address these issues, future
projects should identify key staff in utilities willing to test new technologies and work



v
with poor communities, secure support from utility managers and local politicians, and
promote cultural change in the utilities by investing in workshops and field visits from
the early stages of project preparation.
* Operation and maintenance arrangements were not included in project design. Low-
cost technologies such as the "condominial" system (sewer lines placed in backyards)
require more maintenance than conventional systems, and some of this maintenance
can be entrusted to beneficiary communities. Such arrangements should be evaluated
and discussed at the design phase, however, and not left to be resolved after the
systems have been built.
* Physical works frequently took priority over community mobilization activities. Cost
overruns and implementation delays were directly related to a lack of planning and
coordination between the social and technical aspects of the project. One of the first
steps in projects of this type should be to explain to beneficiary communities the cost
implications-including capital and operation and maintenance costs-of viable
technical options. Utilities must attract experienced social workers who can oversee
the work of engineers and serve as contacts for community organizations.
Furthermore, health education and community organization activities must continue
beyond the completion of the works so that the community can familiarize itself with
the new systems.
A Disproportionate loan allocations went to afew utilities. The bulk of resources were
allocated to the two subprojects in Belem and Rio de Janeiro. Although the Belem
project was implemented satisfactorily, the Rio project suffered delays that were
reflected in overall project performance. The allocation of resources should recognize
the potential for weak performance by taking into account the implementation capacity
of sub-borrowers and the commitment and stability of top managers in the
participating utility.
* A long delay occurred between project appraisal and execution. The two-year lapse
between project appraisal and loan effectiveness, partly a consequence of the disarray
of key sector institutions at the time, seriously hindered project implementation.
Projects with initial delays of this magnitude should either be canceled or restructured
to accommodate new institutional actors and their policy priorities. The project was
essentially relaunched in 1992 under a new set of implementation procedures, giving a
prominent role to community mobilization activities, strengthening the coordination
capacity of the federal management (CEF) unit in Brasilia, and increasing the
implementation authority of the CEF's decentralized units. The Bank also increased
supervision resources and forged an effective partnership between the operational
division and TWUWS.
* Design and implementation of subprojects were poorly coordinated with local
governments. The project overlooked the importance of coordinating water and
sanitation services with local government responsibilities such as stormwater drainage,



Vl
paving, and solid waste management. The next generation of PROSANEAR projects
should support a partnership among conmmunities, utilities, and local governments in
the planning, design, and operation of interrelated infrastructure services. Still, future
efforts should continue to use a utility to provide water and sanitation services to
ensure the long-term sustainability of these services.
Policy lessons
Metering individual connections, when feasible, or clusters of connections should be
incorporated into the design offuture PROSANEAR projects in Brazil. About 15
cubic meters should be allocated to each connection, corresponding to consumption of
100 liters per day. This level is considered adequate and reflects actual consumption
patterns.
Setting investment ceilings by beneficiary is an effective way of encouraging the
development of low-cost projects. The per capita ceilings proposed for a second
PROSANEAR could be reduced by about 20 percent, to US$80 for water and
US$100 for sewerage subprojects. Subprojects designed and executed using more
conventional approaches cost about 40 percent more.
Social tariffs for water and sanitation services in Brazil are poorly defined and were
not studied in detail during project implementation. The establishment of a social
tariff and subsidy policy should be analyzed as part of the preparation of a follow-up
project. Current full tariffs, however, appear to be affordable, based on a maximum
monthly charge of about 5 percent of three minimum monthly salaries per family.
Social tariffs in the subprojects analyzed allow for full cost recovery of operation and
maintenance costs and a portion of capital costs ranging from 19 to 39 percent. Future
projects should also be based on better cost estimates and include a more transparent
policy to subsidize expansion of water and sewerage connections to poor
neighborhoods. In any case social tariffs should cover operation and maintenance costs
and a portion of capital costs within a defined affordability criterion.
Using quick baseline surveys to evaluate targeting criteria is practical and effective.
The criterion of at least 40 percent of beneficiaries earning less than one minimum
salary has been found adequate to target the poorest low-income areas.
Campinas component
The project design overestimated demand. The design, based on a master plan
prepared in 1983, was reviewed during project implementation in 1992. One of the
findings of the 1992 review was that demand projections were overly optimistic and
that part of the projected demand could be met by pursuing operational improvements
in the distribution network and delaying some investments. Future projects should
carefully optimize the distribution network before expanding production capacity.



vii
+ Lack of reliable fundingfrom the municipality created difficulties. The financial
difficulties of the municipality of Carnpinas during a period of high inflation resulted in
financing difficulties for the Campinas component. Moreover, the fact that this
component had four sources of financing (the Bank, the CEF, SANASA, and the
municipality of Campinas) created a situation in which a shortfall from any one source
would jeopardize progress. Future projects should rely on no more than two sources
of financing and tap into internally generated cash.
* Political interference should be reduced or eliminated. Like all public utilities in
Brazil, SANASA is directly affected by political changes in its municipality. This
interference and its negative effects were apparent in the delays during implementation
of the Campinas component. In 1992 alone SANASA had three presidents. The long-
tern and sustained performance of a utility with competent staff (like SANASA) can
be guaranteed only by separating th- utility from the municipality's administration and
introducing some form of competition and private participation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES AND
LOW-INCOME AREAS - PROSANEAR
(LOAN 2983-BR)
Part I - Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective
A.    Project Identity
Project name:      Water Sector Project for Municipalities and Low-Income Areas -
PROSANEAR
Loan number:       Loan 2983-BR
Loan amount:       US$80 million
RVP unit:          LA1, Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country:           Brazil
Sector:            Water supply and sanitation
B.    Background
Sector objectives
1.    Between 1970 and 1985 Brazil's population grew by 2.5 percent a year, from 93
million to 136 million people. By 1985 the rapidly growing urban population had reached
almost 100 million, or 73 percent of the country's population. In 1991 urban water
coverage stood at 86 percent, but sewerage-limited mostly to the core of metropolitan
areas-reached just 49 percent of the urban population, and less than 20 percent of
collected sewage was treated. Moreover, few of these services reached low-income urban
populations. Thus the Government of Brazil decided to initiate a pilot project to extend
water and sanitation services to low-income urban areas and finance municipal water
utilities that were left out of the ambitious National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA), which
targeted state water companies.
Sector organization
2.    The National Sanitation Plan, created in the late 1960s by the federal Government
and managed by the National Housing Bank (BNH), was a highly centralized scheme
designed to dramatically increase water and sanitation coverage. The plan sought to create



2
and strengthen state water companies. It was also intended to establish investment
priorities, set tariffs and develop cost recovery policies, and mobilize financing for the
state water companies. In 1985 the National Housing Bank was integrated with the newly
created Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, and Environment, and in 1986 was
abolished. The bank's loan portfolio, operating procedures, and personnel were
transferred to the Caixa Econ6mica Federal (CEF), a Government-owned savings and loan
bank. The ministry retained responsibility for establishing water and sanitation policies
(including goals and tariffs), implementing Government policies to decentralize sector
decisions to states and municipalities, and extending sanitation programs to the urban poor
using Government grants. In 1986 the ministry launched the Water and Sanitation
Program for the Low-Income Urban Population (PROSANEAR) and promoted the
preparation of this project. In 1990 the ministry was abolished and its functions integrated
with the new Ministry of Social Action, which included a largely ineffective National
Secretariat of Sanitation. The Ministry of Social Action was abolished in 1995.
3.    Today the main federal agency overseeing water and sanitation is the Secretariat of
Urban Policy (SEPURB), created under the Ministry of Planning in 1995. The sector is
becoming increasingly decentralized, however, with SEPURB's role limited to
coordinating some sector activities with federal, state, and municipal governments and
setting guidelines and monitoring allocation of funds from the federal government and
multilateral banks. The state water companies developed under the National Sanitation
Plan continue to provide service to about 76 percent of the country's population under
long-term (25- or 30-year) concessions from municipalities. The rest of the population is
served by municipal water agencies.
4.    Over the past two years it has become increasingly apparent that the efficiency of
sector operations cannot be further improved within the existing model. In parallel, the
Government has introduced a public sector reform strategy that includes a larger role for
private participation in water supply and sanitation. In the water sector a few utilities have
already been transferred to private operators, and a number of reform-minded states have
initiated actions to include private participants in the management of their water utilities.
This strategy has necessitated the design and implementation of a revised regulatory
framework. A key element of that regulatory reform is the 1995 Concession Law (Law
8987), which requires all expiring concession contracts to be renewed through a public
bidding process.
Bank sector lending
5.    World Bank assistance to water and sanitation projects in Brazil supports the
Government's efforts to achieve sector development and modernization through
institutional and regulatory reforms, improve the efficiency of the state water companies,
alleviate poverty by improving productivity, and address public health and environmental
pollution problems arising from inadequate sewage disposal in large urban areas. Since
1971 the Bank has made eighteen loans to the sector. In addition to the one that is the
subject of this ICR, the Bank is financing six ongoing projects:



3
* The Water Sector Modernization Project (Loan 3442-BR), which is financing
institutional strengthening of the sector and specific investments of three state water
companies in Bahia, Santa Catarina, and Mato Grosso do Sul;
+ The Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project (Loan 3767-
BR), which aims to improve the efficiency of the state water companies and control
pollution;
* Three Water Quality and Pollution Control Projects in the states of Sao Paulo, Paran,
and Minas Gerais (Loans 3504-BR, 3505-BR, and 3554-BR); and
+ A technical assistance loan to the federal Government (Loan 3503-BR) to prepare
water quality projects in large metropolitan areas.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
Project objectives
6.    The project was designed as a pilot operation to extend water supply and
sanitation services to poor urban communities (the PROSANEAR component) and
provide direct operational and financial assistance to a municipal water company (the
Campinas component). The PROSANEAR component sought to:
* improve the health and environmental conditions of very low-income populations
living in peripheral urban areas by providing water supply, sewerage, and in-house
sanitary installations, and by improving solid waste collection and stormwater
drainage;
+ help the Government establish an appropriate system for financing and implementing
subprojects in peripheral urban areas; and
+ make more efficient use of financial resources by applying appropriate subproject
selection criteria and using low-cost technologies.
7.    The Campinas component sought to:
* satisfy the urgent demand for potable water in the municipality of Campinas, including
service to low-income consumers; and
+ extend the concepts underlying the National Sanitation Plan to autonomous
municipalities.



4
Project description
8.    Each of the two project components had several elements. The PROSANEAR
component included:
+ a group of eligible subprojects designed to provide about 200,000 low-income urban
customers with water and 700,000 with sewerage;
* complementary sanitary installations (for example, in-house sanitary installations, solid
waste collection, and stormwater drainage); and
* consulting services for a technical assistance program, to be implemented by the CEF,
to develop appropriate technologies, help project beneficiaries prepare and execute
subprojects, and develop methodologies for dealing with an integrated project
(covering institutional arrangements, community participation, and cost recovery
mechanisms).
9.    The Campinas component consisted of installations to improve and expand the
municipality's water supply system to meet water demands through 2002, and included:
* construction of a 2.4 cubic meters per second water treatment plant;
* installation of seven large water mains with a total extension of 29 kilometers;
+ construction of six water reservoirs with total capacity of 28,600 cubic meters; and
* a program to reduce unaccounted-for-water, including installation of production and
consumption metering, water distribution system survey and mapping, a water leak
control program, and improvement of SANASA's (Campinas's water utility)
commercial system.
The executing agency
10.   The CEF was the Borrower of the loan as well as one of the project's sources of
financing. The CEF was created by Decree Law 759, dated August 12, 1969, as a
Government-owned entity that is administratively and financially autonomous. Brazil's
largest savings and loan institution, the CEF is headquartered in Brasilia and operates
branches in all the states. Implementation of the project was carried out in a decentralized
format under the direct supervision of local CEF agencies. As the successor of the
National Housing Bank, the CEF inherited about 400 employees in its regional agencies
who were responsible for reviewing the quality of subproject proposals and supervising
their implementation, including granting approval for disbursement requests. In its Brasilia
office the CEF established a coordination unit of six technical staff to lead project
implementation; provide technical assistance on bidding processes, technology choices,
and community participation methodologies to its regional supervision units and the sub-
borrowers; consolidate and manage disbursement of the loan; and manage interaction with
Bank staff.



5
D.   Project Design
Conceptual framework
11.   Both the PROSANEAR component and the Campinas component were conceived
as pilot experiments to finance water supply and sanitation investments in low-income
urban areas and municipally owned and operated water companies. The National
Sanitation Plan did not finance municipal water companies because it was geared toward
creating and strengthening state water companies. The PROSANEAR component was
designed to test technical, social, and financial approaches and further develop a strategy
in this area. The component used a learning by doing approach, initially based on the
assumption (resulting from limited field experience) that extending services to low-income
urban areas can be viable and sustainabfe if the communities are encouraged to participate
in the project and appropriate technical solutions are explained and adopted.
12.   For the second component, the municipality of Campinas was chosen to represent
the autonomous municipalities because its institutional capabilities made it a good
candidate for testing operational procedures and financing mechanisms. The Campinas
component was guided by the premise that increased water supply and reduced
unaccounted-for water, coupled with modernized operational procedures, would put the
municipal water company (SANASA) on a solid footing and enable it to extend service to
low-income consumers living in the peripheral areas of Campinas.
Project preparation
13.   Preparation for the PROSANEAR component began in early 1986 with the
creation of a project preparation unit in the CEF that included consultants from the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO). This unit met with potential sub-borrowers and
prepared documentation on project implementation arrangements, including the criteria for
selecting potential subprojects. At appraisal, the minimum criteria for selecting a
subproject area were agreed as follows:
* a subproject must be located in low-income areas of cities with populations of at least
50,000;
* at least 40 percent of the families to be served must have an income of less than one
minimum salary;
* subprojects must comply with technical and environmental standards and represent the
least-cost solution for providing water, sewerage, drainage, or sanitation services;
+ per capita costs for water projects were limited to US$98 and for sewerage projects,
US$140;
+ recipients were to pay in accordance with tariff schedules set by the water utilities;



6
* participating areas were to have an integrated community participation and sanitary
education program to teach them about implementation and maintenance; and
* total investments for in-house sanitary installations, drainage, and solid waste should
not exceed 10 percent of the total cost of the PROSANEAR component.
14.   During preparation Bank staff reviewed and found satisfactory final designs of sub-
projects amounting to 20 percent of the PROSANEAR component's costs. Most of these
subprojects were later withdrawn, however, when it became clear that the project did not
include a grant component as was initially promoted. Moreover, delays between project
appraisal and loan effectiveness had created the need to revise the designs of most
subprojects.
15.   The Campinas component was based on a master plan for water supply prepared
by consultants in 1983. In November 1986, soon after project preparation was initiated,
the Bank cleared bidding documents for the expansion of the city's water treatment plant,
to be financed retroactively after project approval. The contract to expand the plant was
awarded in July 1987.
E.   Project Implementation
Project start-up
16.   The project was appraised in October 1987 and approved by the Board in June
1988; it became effective in February 1989. But since the PROSANEAR component was
at one time (wrongly) promoted as a grant financing project, state water companies and
municipal water agencies were initially reluctant to participate in the project because it
required full cost recovery from the utilities. This situation led to a slow start in finding
eligible and interested candidates before other difficulties (see below) emerged. These
problems ultimately resulted in four years of almost no activity at the beginning of project
implementation.
17.   The Campinas component also suffered initial implementation problems. By the
end of 1988, 85 percent of the water treatment plant and 100 percent of the corresponding
transmission line had been completed. But since the loan did not become effective until
February 1989, no disbursement was possible to pay for these investments. As a result the
CEF held back disbursement to SANASA. Moreover, the municipality, which was
supposed to finance 30 percent of project costs, was unable to provide its share of the
funds. Despite short-term borrowings, SANASA had accumulated US$15 million in
unpaid bills when the contractor for the water treatment plant halted construction in May
1989.



7
Project implementation schedule andprocurement
18.   PROSANEAR component. The project's SAR estimated that the project would be
implemented during 1987-93. However, the first subloan agreements for the
PROSANEAR component were signed (with the CEF and sub-borrowers) three years
after appraisal, in November 1990. Physical implementation started in 1992. During 1988-
90 project implementation was supported by a contract with PAHO; when the contract
with PAHO expired in December 1990, although a number of subloans had been signed,
no subproject had started. As a result the assistance provided by PAHO's consultants
proved largely ineffective.
19.   Since the PROSANEAR component had almost no disbursement until early 1992,
the Bank considered canceling this part of the loan. In February 1992 a Bank mission
reviewed the project and recommended that the PROSANEAR component be continued
for six more months, subject to compliance with agreed benchmarks for each participating
utility. Actions taken at the time included hiring experienced local consultants to finalize
the preparation of subprojects, with intensive participation from beneficiary communities;
deploying additional supervision resources, including better-defined participation of Bank
staff from TWUWS and development of a detailed monitoring system; strengthening the
coordinating functions of the CEF unit in Brasilia; and defining clear targets for future
supervision missions.
20.   Further difficulties arising in this initial period (1989-92) that helped delay project
start-up included:
+ macroeconomic conditions in Brazil (hyperinflation and a freeze on tariffs as a result of
the Cruzado Plan) and financial difficulties of the CEF in 1989 (the CEF was able to
allocate funds to the project only in late 1989);
+  sector disarray resulting from the dismantling of the National Sanitation Plan system
and frequent changes in and politicization of leading sector institutions;
* relocation of the CEF from Rio to Brasilia in 1989, resulting in the resignation of many
experienced staff,
+  lack of preparation of subprojects ready for financing after appraisal. After the project
became effective, no project was deemed adequate to enter the subproject pipeline; it
is worth mentioning that the Bank initially had requested three signed subprojects as a
condition of effectiveness but later, in response to a request from the CEF, relaxed this
conditionality and made it a condition of disbursement;
* the transfer of project responsibility to the Ministry of Social Action in November
1990, resulting in more delays when the ministry began reviewing all subproject
applications, including sixteen that had been approved by the previous administration.
21.   Only after the CEF coordination unit was created in early 1992 did implementation
of the PROSANEAR component finally proceed. Within a year the unit was able to



8
organize and supervise the bidding processes for the various subprojects. Because of the
financial difficulties faced by Brazilian contractors, competition for work was stiff and
contracts were generally awarded with substantial discounts relative to the cost estimates
prepared by sub-borrowers. Many of these contracts later faced difficulties and some were
canceled, significantly hindering progress on the works. In addition, in 1994 disbursements
slowed to a trickle as a result of debt negotiations between the federal and state and local
governments. The Bank responded by intensifying supervision yet again, posting the
project's Task Manager to the Brasilia office.
22.   By mid-1994 all the loan proceeds had been allocated among the following sub-
borrowers: (i) Belem, PA; (ii) Campo Grande and Dourados, MS; (iii) Manaus, AM; (iv)
Recife, PE; (v) Juiz de Fora, MG; (vi) Rio De Janeiro, RJ; (vii) Angra dos Reis, RJ; (viii)
Joinville I/Joinville IllFlorian6polis/Lages/Chapec6, SC; and (ix) Fortaleza/Juazeiro do
Norte/ Crateus-Quixada, CE (Table 5). At the same time, major efforts were made by
CEF staff to orient the sub-borrowers in the design of the subprojects, including the use of
appropriate technologies and community participation models. Like any pilot experiment,
implementation of these subprojects encountered delays. For the first time, the state water
companies had to weave community participation activities into physical implementation
of works. Moreover, contract negotiations resulting from the Real Plan (introduced in July
1994) led to minor delays, as well as some contract cancellations when contractors tried to
take advantage of the annual price adjustments to renegotiate prices. These delays led to
the accumulated extension of the closing date to December 31, 1996.
23.   Additional difficulties in the final two years of the project included a shortage of
counterpart funds in Rio de Janeiro and Angra dos Reis and cost overruns in Belem. In
response to the shortage of counterpart funds, the Bank allowed an increase in its
financing percentage to help resolve the temporary crunch; the Rio subproject was later
able to tap into additional CEF and state funds to reprogram implementation of the works.
Angra's inability to borrow additional funds led completion of the works to be postponed
beyond the closing date. In Belem, at the prodding of the Bank and with pressure from
local nongovernmental organizations, the state of Para provided the funds needed to
complete the works. These nongovernmental organizations should play a more active role
in future projects of this type.
24.   Campinas component. The Campinas component had incurred expenditures
totaling US$23 million before the Bank loan even became effective. Once the loan became
effective and the initial amount (US$10 million) had been deposited in the Special
Account, the CEF submitted a withdrawal application for US$10 million. When the Bank
received a request for replenishment, it replenished US$8 million, the authorized amount
for retroactive financing. The Bank's Loan Department then requested a refund of US$2
million. The Bank informed the CEF that it would not replenish the Special Account until
the US$2 million overdraft had been deposited. The CEF subsequently submitted another
withdrawal application for US$5.3 million, and reimbursed the US$2 million.



9
25.   After these initial difficulties, implementation of the Campinas component again
faced procurement problems when four international competitive bidding contracts were
canceled in December 1992 for not having followed the Bank's guidelines. Then in 1993
difficulties emerged because the municipality was unable to provide its share of the
project's counterpart funds. The Bank threatened to consider canceling the remainder of
the loan if the municipality did not provide its long overdue counterpart funding of
US$7.2 million. The issue was resolved when SANASA agreed to provide the funds owed
by the municipality. In 1992 SANASA and the Bank agreed to review the water demand
assumptions included in the 1983 master plan. The review found significant departures
from the assumptions used in the earlier estimate and consequently a substantial
overestimate of demand. As a result the master plan was adjusted to include the addition
of a booster pump and the elimination of a reservoir. At the same time, an operational
improvement plan was designed and implemented, including macro- and micro-metering,
updating of the cadaster, modernization of operational equipment, and leak detection.
Project costs
26.   At appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$190.7 million-US$100 million
for the PROSANEAR component and US$90.7 million for the Campinas component-
including civil works, materials, equipment, technical assistance, and contingencies (Table
6). Final project costs reached US$277.1 million, with US$182.2 million for the
PROSANEAR component and US$94.9 million for the Campinas component. The costs
of the PROSANEAR component increased because it reached a larger number of
beneficiaries than was estimated at appraisal. Final beneficiaries (of both water and
sanitation) will total about 1.7 million people, compared with the expected 0.9 million
(Table 4A). Per capita costs of PROSANEAR's subprojects fluctuated widely but were
mostly below the agreed limits of US$98 for water and US$140 for sewerage. Among the
subprojects that went over the limits were the Belem sewerage subprojects and a few Rio
favelas that required heavy investment in the extension of existing mains (Table 10). Per
capita costs for the entire component averaged US$88 for water supply and US$108 for
sewerage. Total costs for the Campinas component remained within the expected range
even though the cost of the treatment plant doubled, partly because of incomplete designs
and inaccurate estimates. This additional cost was compensated by lower than estimated
costs for other subcomponents.
Projectfinancing
27.   Estimated and actual sources and levels of financing are shown in Table 7. For the
PROSANEAR component it was initially estimated that the Bank would finance 50
percent of total costs, leaving 25 percent each for the CEF and the water companies (sub-
borrowers). During implementation, however, an increase in the scope of this component
led final participation by the Bank to be 28 percent of total costs; the largest percentage
was shouldered by the water companies. In the Campinas component the contributions of
the Bank and the CEF remained almost as envisaged, but there was an increase in the
percentage contributed by SANASA and a corresponding decrease in the contribution of



10
the municipality of Campinas. During project implementation many sub-borrowers faced
severe counterpart shortages that the Bank addressed, when possible, by temporarily
increasing its disbursement percentages. This was most notable in Campinas and Rio de
Janeiro. The Angra dos Reis subproject suffered cost overruns that, combined with a lack
of counterpart funding, led the completion date to be extended beyond the original closing
date.
28.   As a result of the three-year delay in project implementation, disbursements did not
follow the appraisal estimates (Table 8). These estimates now appear to be have been
unrealistic given the experimental nature of project design. After an initial disbursement of
US$18 million, reached as a result of the retroactive financing of the Campinas water
treatment plant (and US$10 million to the Special Account), disbursements were
practically nil until the fourth year of the project. The bulk of disbursements (about US$50
million) occurred after fiscal 1994.
29.   Except for category IB, which was allocated for goods and "complementary"
works other than water and sewerage, most of the allocations of the loan proceeds by
category did not deviate much from the original estimates (Table 9). During
implementation works in this category were contracted out as part of the water or
sewerage contracts, and thus were paid from category IA.
F.    Project Results
Project objectives
30.   PROSAANEAR component. The objectives stated in the SAR were fully achieved.
The targets indicated in the SAR were surpassed, and the project was able to meet its
stated physical and developmental objectives. The use of low-cost appropriate
technologies and comrnmunity participation has ensured the efficient use of financial
resources and provided a new methodology that can be used to extend services to other
areas. Although the Angra dos Reis and Rio de Janeiro subprojects were still being
executed at the project closing date, as many as twice the number of beneficiaries initially
projected will be reached when the subprojects are completed in June and November
1997. The inclusion in the project of about 500,000 residents in Rio de Janeiro is proof of
the project concept's strong appeal to the sub-borrower. The same can be said of almost
all the other sub-borrowers, who entered the project with apprehension but were able to
adapt to and adjust the project concept.
31.   Despite the delays of the subproject in Angra dos Reis, the innovative approaches
adopted and the initial results generated led the subproject to be nominated to the 1995
HABITAT II conference in Istanbul as one of the world's best community-based projects.
Moreover, the project concept developed in the PROSANEAR component has been used
as a model for other Bank-financed projects in Argentina, India, Indonesia, and the
Philippines. It has also been widely disseminated, and a number of reports have been



11
prepared. The Government of Brazil, encouraged by the model's initial success, decided to
continue the project with its own resources and has requested Bank assistance to prepare
a follow-up operation with a total estimated cost of US$400 million.
32.   Campinas component. The Campinas component also achieved its objectives. The
component constructed a treatment plant and major water mains and eliminated chronic
water shortages. Moreover, implementation of this component has demonstrated the
feasibility of extending financing to autonomous municipal companies on terms similar to
those of state water companies. In 1996 the federal Government agreed to channel
multilateral funds to autonomous municipalities as part of the Water Modernization
Project being prepared with Bank financing.
Physical results
33.   PROSANEAR component. Despite implementation difficulties and initial delays,
the PROSANEAR component achieved-and in many cases surpassed-all its stated
physical objectives. As a pilot project testing the applicability of appropriate technologies
and community participation methodologies, these positive results have led to the
adoption of the PROSANEAR concept into a national program. Once all of
PROSANEAR's subprojects have been completed, about one million people will have
been given access to both water supply and sanitation systems. Moreover, these services
will be provided at a lower cost than was initially envisaged. The key lesson of this
component is that the model tested-community participation and low-cost
technologies-is the only viable delivery option for extending services to densely
populated low-income areas.
34.   As the component was being implemented, many water utilities began changing
their attitudes toward low-income settlements, recognizing that cost recovery was possible
and that poor users can be responsible clients once a level of understanding is reached
between the two groups. Indirect benefits also reached the construction companies as they
saw competitive advantages to adopting the implementation model and using it in similar
projects in other areas.
35.  In addition to its. tangible physical results-extended service and lower per capita
costs-the project generated indirect benefits that will be evaluated as part of the
preparation of a second-generation PROSANEAR project. The Government and the CEF
are currently surveying completed subprojects to estimate overall benefits. From the
evidence gathered during implementation, however, the indirect benefits are known to
include:
* cleaner communities and better hygiene
* sense of ownership of water and sanitation systems
* stronger sense of community and identity
* community empowerment to request and lobby for additional services
* income-generating activities as communities organize themselves



12
* investment in improved housing.
36.   Campinas component. The initial and final scope of work under the Campinas
component were essentially the same, and all works were completed. The only changes to
the original scope were the elimination of a reservoir and the inclusion of a booster pump
in the network. From an operational viewpoint, as measured by an employee productivity
index, the performance of SANASA, the Campinas water company, was less than
satisfactory. SANASA's index (about 10) is below the average for Brazil's twenty-seven
municipal water companies. This poor performance reflects the political environment in
which both state and municipal public water utilities operate. For example, during the
early years of project implementation the company's president changed frequently-
including three times in a single year (1992). On the positive side, during the past three
years of implementation the project has benefited from a competent management team that
successfully implemented an operational improvement plan.
37.   The other main operational indicator, unaccounted-for water, was about 30
percent at the close of the project. Although this level is higher than the 20 percent
estimated at appraisal, it reflects better performance than most water companies in Brazil.
In retrospect, the SAR forecast of 20 percent was overly optimistic. One of the main
lessons of this component is that the technical and operational performance of SANASA,
a municipal water company, is generally better than that of most state water companies
because it is closer to its customers.
Financial performance (Campinas component)
38.   SANASA's financial position at the end of project implementation did not meet
many of the targets set at appraisal (Tables 1 lA-C, 13). Its operating ratio (operating
expenses/operating revenues) deteriorated from 49 percent in 1988 to 93 percent in 1995;
the project appraisal had projected a ratio of 65 percent for 1995. The appraisal targeted a
working ratio (operating expenses minus depreciation/operating revenues) of 43 percent in
1988 and 50 percent in 1995; actual values were 85 percent and 77 percent. The accounts
receivable comparator (accounts receivable plus the provision of bad debt multiplied by
360 and divided by operating revenues) fluctuated widely during project implementation,
peaking at 199 days after coming down to 82 days in 1995. For 1997-2000, however,
SANASA projects a high of 110 days; anything above 90 days is considered unacceptable.
Debt service coverage (sum of net income after tax, depreciation, and financial cost/total
debt service) was less than 1.0 throughout implementation (except in 1994, when it
reached 1.34); the appraisal projected a ratio of 3.57. The current ratio (current
assets/current liabilities) was never above 1.0: although it was estimated to be about 2.16
in 1988, in reality it only reached 0.14. Similarly, in 1995 the current ratio was 0.5 when it
was projected to be 2.55. The rate of return on fixed assets, after peaking at 26 percent in
1990 because of tariff adjustments, remained close to zero during 1991-93. In 1995 it was
at 4 percent; the appraised estimate for that year was 10 percent. SANASA expects the
rate of return on fixed assets to remain at 3 percent until at least 2000. SANASA's poorer
than expected performance can be attributed to the municipality of Campinas's failure to



13
provide its share of the project funds and to water sales that were significantly below
appraisal estimates.
39.   The gap between appraised and actual financial figures widened from the beginning
of the project. Appraisal forecasts aniticipated substantial revenue increases in 1987 and
1988 as a result of increased sales volume and an increase in real tariff levels. This was to
be followed by revenue growth of 5-10 percent a year. Such growth was inhibited by two
main factors. First, the effects of the Cruzado Plan and subsequent macroeconomic
difficulties from the end of 1986 to 1989 (tariffs were frozen and therefore fell in real
terms, with concurrent real increases in many operating costs) resulted in revenue growth
that was about half of that forecast and in a real decrease in revenues of about 9 percent in
1988. At the same time, real cost increases were 10 percent higher than those forecast at
appraisal. Macroeconomic difficulties also affected the municipality of Campinas and
hindered its ability to lend to SANASA in the amounts foreseen at appraisal.
40.   Second, financial difficulties were exacerbated by the delay in loan effectiveness
combined with SANASA's decision to go ahead with the works as contracted without
financing from the Bank and the CEF. Since neither SANASA nor the municipality had the
capacity to fill this financing gap, the project had almost no financing for nearly one year
(mid-1988 to mid-1989). To maintain construction of the badly needed plant, SANASA
took on short-term borrowing. By the end of 1988 SANASA had spent nearly US$15
million repaying this loan and closed the year with a US$20 million deficit. Thus it became
almost impossible for SANASA to make its contribution to the project, forecast to be
about US$4.5 million a year over the four-year implementation period.
Economic reevaluation
41.   PROSANEAR component. The rates of return for the PROSANEAR component
were calculated for a representative sample of four subproject areas (one from each of the
three state water companies and one from a municipal company) using the revenues raised
in each subproject as a proxy for benefits (see Table 12A). These revenues were based on
the social tariffs that apply to the low-income areas of the selected subprojects. The
investment costs were those of completed works, and operation and maintenance costs
were estimates provided by the utilities, which were cross-checked against information
from SEPURB's database. The analysis indicates that the rates of return are between zero
and about 3 percent. Such low rates of return were expected because of the social tariffs
applied in all the subprojects. When social tariffs are replaced by full tariffs the rates of
return vary from 7.0 percent to 14.4 percent for the same set of subprojects. An analysis
of affordability based on current social and full tariffs indicates that the resulting monthly
bills are respectively about 3 and 5 percent of income, estimated at three minimum salaries
(a common poverty threshold in Brazil). When the same analysis is repeated with
estimated costs of conventional technologies (assumed to be 40 percent higher than the
low-cost technologies used in the project) the internal economic rates of return from the
social tariffs all fall to zero. The rate of return on a sample of subprojects evaluated at
appraisal was estimated at 13.2 percent; however, because the SAR does not contain any



14
detail on how these returns were estimated, it is not possible to directly compare these
results.
42.   Analysis of data from the four subprojects shows that in all cases the revenues
amply cover operation and maintenance costs. In addition, the subsidy for investment
costs (under the social tariff) is about 70 percent, and a tariff increase of about 50 percent
would bring the rate of return close to the discount rate of 10 percent. From the analysis it
is clear, however, that economic viability was not a primary objective of the implemented
subprojects. Still, the analysis indicates that the viability of future subprojects could be
ensured when consumption of water is metered, consumers are charged for the water they
consume, low-cost technologies are used, beneficiaries are given information on cost
recovery policies, and subsidies (where necessary) are clearly defined. Although subsidized
systems are often justifiable for low-income areas, the subsidy must be transparent and
part of a clear policy.
43.   Campinas component. The economic reevaluation of the Campinas component
was based on an analysis of the costs and benefits of the Bank-assisted project as defined
in the SAR. This analysis assumed that the new investments would be fully utilized by
2006 and have a useful life of thirty-three years. It also assumed that 3 0 percent of new
water production would be unaccounted for and therefore would not be billed. Finally, it
assumed that the costs of operation and maintenance for water would constitute 80
percent of all operation and maintenance costs. Using tariff rates as a proxy for benefits,
the rate of return was re-estimated at 9.03 percent; the SAR estimate was 8.4 percent. It is
important to note that despite using the best available data, these estimates introduce an
element of imprecision as a result of the conversion of actual revenue values in the local
currency to dollar values using a yearly average exchange rate. But since rates of return
reflect only part of the benefits of water and sanitation services, total benefits will exceed
the level resulting from this calculation.
Impact on the poor
44.   Among Bank-financed water and sanitation projects in Brazil, this is the first to
directly target the urban poor (through the PROSANEAR component). During project
implementation baseline surveys were conducted in each beneficiary community to ensure
compliance with the targeting criteria (at least 40 percent of the families to be served
having an income of less than one minimum salary). As part of preparation for a follow-up
operation, a study is being conducted to more closely evaluate the project's impact on its
beneficiaries. Preliminary information suggests that the lives of the beneficiaries have
improved not only because of the benefits of water and sanitation but because of many
other indirect benefits that have resulted from intensive community mobilization, health
education, condominium formation, minor income-generating activities, arts and crafts
shows, and so on. The Campinas component's impact is also significant: since water
supply coverage increased from 90 percent to 98 percent (an estimated 80,000
beneficiaries), the extension of service is believed to have mostly benefited the poor.



15
G.   Project Sustainability
45.   PROSANEAR component. The benefits of the PROSANEAR component are
expected to be long-lasting. In many of the component's subprojects (such as those in Rio
and Belem) the operation and maintenance of the new systems will be carried out by
private operators. In Ceari maintenance has been entrusted to local residents who are
trained, equipped, and paid by CAGECE, the state water company. The momentum
created and experience gained by the various implementing agencies in expanding services
to low-income areas should generate additional positive outcomes in terms of further
expanding service and improving project methodologies. Moreover, the concept of
clustering families within a low-income area (condominiums) provided an effective
organizational framework at the sublocal level that generated many benefits to the
community beyond the physical benefits of the project.
46.   The model as conceived and implemented in the project has been proven feasible
and is expected to be sustainable. However, full sustainability of the systems can be
guaranteed only if the model introduces an element of economic viability, which the
current project did not test. Thus one challenge future PROSANEAR projects will face
relates to policy options on cost recovery (tariffs and subsidies). Another challenge will be
integrating water supply and sanitation design and operation with other municipal services
such as drainage and solid waste management. For example, in some low-lying flood-
prone areas without drainage (such as Fortaleza and Belem) there is concern that residents
will try to solve their drainage problems by letting stormwater into the sewerage network,
leading to major operational problems.
47.   Campinas component. SANASA's highly qualified technical staff are expected to
adequately operate and maintain the new facilities, given the company's good track
record. However, long-lasting sustainability will be guaranteed only by a profound reform
of the water supply and sanitation sector, implying the separation of operational and
regulatory functions and the introduction of competition and private participation to create
the right incentives for efficiency.
H.   Bank Performance
48.   Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank's project preparation,
involving about 120 staff-weeks and eight missions, lasted more than two years from
identification to Board presentation. Project preparation coincided with a period of major
institutional changes in Brazil's water supply and sanitation sector that ended up delaying
project start-up.
49.   As would be expected from a programmatic project, Bank supervision was fairly
intense, comprising 197 staff-weeks during implementation. During 1989-96 twenty-two
Bank missions visited the project. In addition, there were several short missions by the



16
Task Manager posted in Brasilia. Given that most subprojects involved small
neighborhoods, procurement was also high and required intense Bank supervision. The
Bank did not, however, pay sufficient attention to SANASA's financial management and
performance. Supervision of the Campinas component lagged because supervision
resources were concentrated in the PROSANEAR component.
50.   In 1992, when the PROSANEAR component still had not been initiated, the Bank
decided to intensify its supervision rather than cancel the component. That decision turned
out to be a good one because the project was implemented within a reasonable timeframe
starting from that point. Moreover, the Bank was responsive to the needs of the sub-
borrowers and made special arrangements when needed. For example, when the Rio de
Janeiro subproject of the PROSANEAR component faced a severe shortage of
counterpart funds, the Bank temporarily raised its contribution and allowed Rio's share to
be reduced. In the case of the Campinas component, the Bank's disbursement percentage
was raised from 66 percent to 100 percent when SANASA experienced a severe shortage
of counterpart funds in 1990-91.
I.    Borrower Performance
51.   The CEF, the Borrower, is a large Government-owned financial institution that has
inherited the staff of the National Housing Bank and thus is well positioned to carry out
infrastructure projects. Its regional staff, which was responsible for the day-to-day
supervision of the subprojects, was highly qualified and provided the project with quality
service. The closeness of the CEF's staff to the subproject locations was a crucial factor in
the project's overall success. Furthermore, the regional CEF units had the necessary skills
mix to provide the required technical assistance and project supervision. The performance
of the CEF's Brasilia coordination unit, which was set up in 1992, was highly satisfactory,
especially in terms of project management and commitment to project objectives, which
allowed it to overcome initial delays.
52.   SANASA, the sub-borrower under the Campinas component, has a highly
competent staff, but the company exhibits erratic performance as a result of political
interference in its management by the municipality. The sub-borrowers under the
PROSANEAR component all showed poor performance in the initial phase of the project
as a result of their lack of familiarity with Bank procedures and the project concept.
During implementation, with substantial input from the CEF's coordinating unit, these
sub-borrowers were able to put together competent teams of engineers and social workers
to execute the subprojects. There was remarkable continuity in the management teams of
most subprojects.
J.    Lessons Learned
53.   Many lessons were learned from this project. The lessons learned from the



17
PROSANEAR component were discussed at international seminars in December 1994 in
Rio de Janeiro and in August 1996 in Brasilia. All the participating agencies took part in
these seminars and shared their experiences in preparation for a second generation of sub-
projects. The most important lessons are listed below.
PROSANEAR component
Project design and implementation
*  Utilities have limited experience and assign low priority to water and sanitation in
poor areas. Most utilities have little experience with projects aimed at extending
services to poor areas, and often are reluctant to adopt low-cost technologies and
build partnerships with community organizations. To address these issues, future
projects should identify key staff in utilities willing to test new technologies and work
with poor communities, secure support from utility managers and local politicians, and
promote cultural change in the utilities by investing in workshops and field visits from
the early stages of project preparation.
-  Operation and maintenance arrangements were not included in project design. Low-
cost technologies such as the "condominial" system require more maintenance than
conventional systems, and some of this maintenance can be entrusted to beneficiary
communities. Such arrangements should be evaluated and discussed at the design
phase, however, and not left to be resolved after the systems have been built.
* Physical works frequently took priority over community mobilization activities. Cost
overruns and implementation delays were directly related to a lack of planning and
coordination between the social and technical aspects of the project. One of the first
steps in projects of this type should be to explain to beneficiary communities the cost
implications-including capital and operation and maintenance costs-of viable
technical options. Utilities must attract experienced social workers who can oversee
the work of engineers and serve as contacts for community organizations.
Furthermore, health education and community organization activities must continue
beyond the completion of the works so that the community can familiarize itself with
the new systems.
* Disproportionate loan allocations went to afew utilities. The bulk of resources were
allocated to the two subprojects in Belem and Rio de Janeiro. Although the Belem
project was implemented satisfactorily, the Rio project suffered delays that were
reflected in overall project performance. The allocation of resources should recognize
the potential for weak performance by taking into account the implementation capacity
of sub-borrowers and the commitment and stability of top managers in the
participating utility.
* A long delay occurred between project appraisal and execution. The two-year lapse
between project appraisal and loan effectiveness, partly a consequence of the disarray



18
of key sector institutions at the time, seriously hindered project implementation.
Projects with initial delays of this magnitude should either be canceled or restructured
to accommodate new institutional actors and their policy priorities. The project was
essentially relaunched in 1992 under a new set of implementation procedures, giving a
prominent role to community mobilization activities, strengthening the coordination
capacity of the federal management (CEF) unit in Brasilia, and increasing the
implementation authority of the CEF's decentralized units. The Bank also increased
supervision resources and forged an effective partnership between the operational
division and TWUWS.
* Design and implementation of subprojects were poorly coordinated with local
governments. The project overlooked the importance of coordinating water and
sanitation services with local government responsibilities such as stormwater drainage,
paving, and solid waste management. The next generation of PROSANEAR projects
should support a partnership among communities, utilities, and local governments in
the planning, design, and operation of interrelated infrastructure services. Still, future
efforts should continue to use a utility to provide water and sanitation services to
ensure the long-term sustainability of these services.
Policy lessons
? Metering individual connections, when feasible, or clusters of connections should be
incorporated into the design offuture PROSANEAR projects in Brazil. About 15
cubic meters should be allocated to each connection, corresponding to consumption of
100 liters per day. This level is considered adequate and reflects actual consumption
patterns.
i Setting investment ceilings by beneficiary is an effective way of encouraging the
development of low-cost projects. The per capita ceilings proposed for a second
PROSANEAR could be reduced by about 20 percent, to US$80 for water and
US$100 for sewerage subprojects. Subprojects designed and executed using more
conventional approaches cost about 40 percent more.
* Social tariffsfor water and sanitation services in Brazil are poorly defined and were
not studied in detail during project implementation. The establishment of a social
tariff and subsidy policy should be analyzed as part of the preparation of a follow-up
project. Current full tariffs, however, appear to be affordable, based on a maximum
monthly charge of about 5 percent of three minimum monthly salaries per family.
Social tariffs in the subprojects analyzed allow for full cost recovery of operation and
maintenance costs and a portion of capital costs ranging from 19 to 39 percent. Future
projects should also be based on better cost estimates and include a more transparent
policy to subsidize expansion of water and sewerage connections to poor
neighborhoods. In any case social tariffs should cover operation and maintenance costs
and a portion of capital costs within a defined affordability criterion.



19
* Using quick baseline surveys to evaluate targeting criteria is practical and effective.
The criterion of at least 40 percent of beneficiaries earning less than one minimum
salary has been found adequate to target the poorest low-income areas.
Campinas component
*  The project design overestimated demand. The design, based on a master plan
prepared in 1983, was reviewed during project implementation in 1992. One of the
findings of the 1992 review was that demand projections were overly optimistic and
that part of the projected demand could be met by pursuing operational improvements
in the distribution network and delaying some investments. Future projects should
carefully optimize the distribution network before expanding production capacity.
* Lack of reliable funding from the municipality created dfficulties. The financial
difficulties of the municipality of Campinas during a period of high inflation resulted in
financing difficulties for the Campinas component. Moreover, the fact that this
component had four sources of financing (the Bank, the CEF, SANASA, and the
municipality of Campinas) created a situation in which a shortfall from any one source
would jeopardize progress. Future projects should rely on no more than two sources
of financing and tap into internally generated cash.
- Political interference should be reduced or eliminated. Like all public utilities in
Brazil, SANASA is directly affected by political changes in its municipality. This
interference and its negative effects were apparent in the delays during implementation
of the Campinas component. In 1992 alone SANASA had three presidents. The long-
term and sustained performance of a utility with competent staff (like SANASA) can
be guaranteed only by separating the utility from the municipality's administration and
introducing some form of competition and private participation.
K.   Bank-Borrower Relationship
54.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was generally cordial.
Although the project went through four Task Managers (with the third one posted in
Brasilia) in its eight years of implementation, there was no apparent loss of continuity. On
the Borrower side there were three coordinators, the second of which was instrumental in
relaunching the project after its long initial delay and giving it momentum. The relationship
between the Bank and the CEF experienced some strain when the CEF was unable to
reconstitute the overdraft from the Special Account in 1990. Similarly, friction developed
when the CEF was unable to enlist creditworthy sub-borrowers and the Bank threatened
to reduce the loan amount. The Bank also threatened to cancel the loan in 1994 because
the municipality of Campinas was slow in providing required counterpart funds.



20
L.    Consulting Services
55.   Although the SAR indicated a need for about US$8.5 million in consulting
services, the loan agreement had provisions for less than US$1 million, most of which was
used for the four studies listed in Table 16 and other technical assistance provided to
project beneficiaries by the CEF. Most of the project's consulting services, however, were
concentrated in the design of the subprojects and the community mobilization and health
education activities. Extensive consulting services were needed for the conmmunity
participation activities.
56.   Three of the four studies mentioned above were carried out by consultants hired
for their expertise. The consultant for the fourth study and all the other consulting firms
used in the project were contracted in accordance with the short list procedure. The
performance of the consultants (all local) was generally satisfactory.
M.   Project Documentation and Data
57.   The SAR was adequately prepared-except for the financial section-and
provided useful information for the preparation of this report. The aide memoires,
supervision reports, and general correspondence provided an adequate record of the issues
encountered during implementation. However, monitoring indicators were not updated in
all the aide memoires. Semiannual progress reports submitted by the CEF (mostly in the
last three years of the project) were adequate. Monthly reports submitted by the Rio
subproject during the last year of the project provided a detailed record of the subproject's
progress at a critical time. Audits reports for the PROSANEAR component were
submitted with up to four years' delay. The CEF also submitted a completion report that
was used in the preparation of this report.
N.    The Challenges Ahead
58.   Encouraged by PROSANEAR's success, Brazil is taking the project concept to the
national level. With the Bank's help, the Government is redesigning PROSANEAR's
project criteria and guidelines to take advantage of the many lessons learned in the pilot
phase. The next generation of PROSANEAR subproject beneficiaries will be able to
choose water and sewerage systems from a menu of low-cost technology options. Future
executing agencies will be able to choose from various institutional arrangements tested by
the pilot program and select the community participation methods that worked best.
59.   PROSANEAR has also attracted the attention of governments in other parts of the
world. For such efforts to succeed, other countries will have to tailor the lessons of
PROSANEAR to local conditions. A large-scale experimental project that introduces
PROSANEAR's guiding principles to local conditions would be an important first step.



21
60.   PROSANEAR began slowly and improved as experience was gained. By the time
this experimental phase ended, PROSANEAR had demonstrated the power of combining
community participation and low-cost technology. Moreover, it taught profound lessons
to everyone involved-residents learned that they can improve their communities, water
companies learned that low-income populations not only make good customers but good
partners, and governments learned that innovative solutions can work. The next round of
subprojects will be even stronger with the knowledge gained in the first round. There is
every reason to believe that PROSANEAR's pragmatic combination of low-cost
technology and community participation will enable water agencies to serve millions more
of the urban poor, in Brazil and in countries around the world.



22
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible     Not aMplicable
Macro Policies                     Q                               El                El
Sector Policies                    C3              E                                 El
Financial Objectives               E                               E3                [1
Institutional Development          nJ
Physical Objectives                IA              El              I 
Poverty Reduction                  [A              E               E                 E
Gender Issues                                      E               E                 IA
Other Social Objectives                                            [                 IA
Environmental Objectives           [A                              E                 El
Public Sector Management           EQ                               Q                [A
Private Sector Development          QE                             El                [A
Other (specify)                      l             El              E                 I
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv             Likely                  Unlikelv                Uncertain
(9')                     (9')                     (9')
Hfighly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactorv         Satisfactory               Deficient
(9')                    (9')                     (9')
Identification                     E                       IA                        E
Preparation Assistance             E                        IA                       E
Appraisal                          E                       E                         IA
Supervision                        [] [A 



23
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactorv   Satisfactorv    Deficient
(/)            (/)            (.1)
Preparation
Implementation                               ]              Eli
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)                   [              i               5
Highlv                                          _ighly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactor,   Satisfacto    Unsatisfactor    unsatisfactorv
C/             (v)              0/               0/



Table 2: Related Bank Loans (US$ million)
Loan title and number                       Purpose                                         Amount Year         Status
Previous Operations
Water supply and sewerage project (2249-BR)  Water and sewerage improvements                302.3   1983       Closed
Technical assistance (2532-BR)              Technical assistance to develop national rural water   16.3  1985    Closed
and sanitation policies and a pilot rural sanitation in
one state
Followivng operations
Water Supply Project in the State of Sao Paulo    Increase SABESP's operational efficiency, improve   280  1989    On-
(3102-BR)                                   health conditions, allocation of water resourtes and              going
promote decentralization
Water Sector Modernization Project (3442-BR)   Institutional strengthening of the water and sewerage  250  1992    On-
sector; specific investments in the States of Santa               going
Catarina, Mato Grosso do Sul and Bahia
Water Quality and Pollution Control - Federal  Assist Brazilian government in setting up project  9  1992    On-
(3503-BR)                                   preparation for water quality and pollution control               going
Water Quality and Pollution Control - Sao Paulo   To ensure that Guarapiranga reservoir is a reliable    119  1992    On-
(3504-BR)                                   source for the Sao Paulo Metro area.                              going
Water Quality and Pollution Control - Parana  Promote cost effective approach to water pollution    117  1992    On-
(3505-BR)                                   control and reduce the pollution, and maintain water              going
supply for project area.
Water Quality and Pollution Control - Minas  Assist the State of Minas Gerais in pollution control   145  1993  On-
Gerais (3554-BR)                            and rehabilitate urban water systems                              going
Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution  Improve efficiency of sewerage and water supply  154     1994    On-
Management Project (3767-BR)                systems of CESAN, the state water company .                       going



25
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                            April 1996
Preparation                                           September 1986
Pre-Appraisal                                          March 9, 1987
Appraisal                  December 1, 1986          October 11, 1987
Negotiations                                            May 31, 1988
Board Presentation           August 15, 1987            June 29, 1988
Signing                                            December 30, 1988
Effectiveness                August 31, 1988        February 23, 1989
Project Completion        December 31, 1993        December 30, 1996
Loan Closing                   June 30, 1994       December 30, 1996



26
Table 4. Proiect Scone
Estimated
in SAR                    Actual
Unit
Part A - PROSANEAR
Water subprojects (1)                               beneficiaries            200,000                    813,000
Sewerage subprojects (1)                            beneficiaries            700,000                    898,000
Complementary services
in-house sanitary facilities (2)                          units         not defined                     8,647
solid waste collection                                                  not defined                 not done
storm drainage                                                          not defined     Minor works in Recife
Technical Assistance
tech. assist. to Beneficiaries                                          not defined                     Done
supervision and evaluation                                             for all works                    Done
studies and research (3)                                                notdefined                      Done
Part B - Campinas
Water treatment plant                                       m3/s                  2.4                        2.4
Primary Distribution Pipes (400-1500mm)                       Km                   29                        29
Reservoirs                                                              6 (28,800m3)              5( 24,100m3)
Reduction of Unaccounted for water
macrometering                                              unit      Not Specified                         41
micrometering                                              unit      Not Specified                       7000
water distribution mapping                                                                               Done
water leak control program                                                                               Done
improvement of commercial system                                                                        Done
(1) The number of beneficiaries include those in Angra dos Reis and Rio de Janeiro who will receive service by the end
of June and December 1997, respectively; works were initiated under the current project. These beneficiaries total
433,000 and 444,000 people for water suppy and sewerage, respectively.
(2) Number of units: 2058 (MS), 689 (SC), S900 (CE)
(3) Major studies were:     Review of experience with non-conventional wastewater treatment systems
Review of the experience with condominial sewers
Willingness to Pay for sanitation services
Social tariffs study



27
Table 4A: Water SuvPlV and Sewerage SubRroiects
State               City                   # of Beneficiaries
(000)
Water   Sewerage
Amazonas            Manaus                   94         3
Para                Belem                   126        126
Ceara               Fortaleza                37        186
Crateus
Quixada
Juazeiro do Norte
Pernambuco          Recife                   7          9
Minas Gerais        Juiz de Fora             18         12
Mato Grosso do Sul  Campo Grande             11         17
Dourados
Rio de Janeiro      Rio de Janeiro (1)      470        450
Angra dos Reis (2)      49         67
Santa Catarina      Florian6polis            2         26
Chapeco
Joinville
Lages
Total                                   1   813        898
(1) Works in Progress. Expected to be completed by December 1997.
(2) Works in Progress. Expected to be completed by end June 1997.



Table 5: Implementation arrangement. schedule and Procurement Method
PART "A"l - PROSANEAR CEF/BIRD
Sub-Projects              Reponsible for             Borrowers             Implementing          # of        Works            Works
Counterpart                                        Agency           Biddings    Start Date    Completion Date
of
which
________________                                          ~~~~~~~~ICB
Rio                         CEDAE                    CEDAE                      CEDAE              26             Apr-94       Nov-97
Recife/PE                  Estado Pemambuco          Estado Permambuco          COMPESA            2              Apr-95       Dec-96
Juiz de Fora/MG            PMJF                      PMJF                       CESAMA             7              Oct-92       Apr-96
Fortaleza/CE               Estado do Ceara           Estado do Ceara            CAGECE              II            Mar-93      Jul-96
Juazeiro do Norte/CE       Estado do Ceara           Estado do Ceara            CACiECE             16            Mar-93      Oct-95
Quixada e Crateus/CE       Estado do Ceara           Estado do Ceara            CAGECE              6             Apr-95       Aug-96
Manaus/AM                   Estados do Amazonas      COSAMA                     COSAMA              9             Jun-93       Nov-95
Dourados/MS                SANESUL                   SANESUI.                   SANESUL             12            May-94       May-96
Camnpo Grande/MS            SANESUL                  SANESUL                    SANESUL             13
Angra dos Reis/RJ           PMAR                     PMAR                       PMAR                12    1       Dec-94       Jun-97
Belem/PA                    Estado do Para           Estado do Pari             COSANPA             6     2       Oct-94       Jan-97
Joinville/SC                CASAN                    CASAN                      CASAN/PMJ           I             Sept-94      Dec-95                                                 oO
Joinville I1/SC             CASAN                    CASAN                      CASAN               2      -      Jan-95       Apr-96
Chapec6/SC                 CASAN                     CASAN                      CASAN               2         _  Jan-95        Apr-96
LagesISC                   CASAN                     CASAN                      CASAN              4              Jan-95      Apr-96
Florian6polis/SC           CASAN                     CASAN                      CASAN              4    _   _   Jan-95        Sept-96
- CAGECE - Water and Sewerage Company of Ceara
- CASAN - Water and Sewerage Company of Santa Catarina
- CEDAE - Water and Sewerage Company of Rio de Janeiro
- CESAMA - Municipal Water and Sewerage Company of Juiz de Fora
- COMPESA - Water and Sewerage Company of Pernambuco
- COSAMA - Water and Sewerage Company of Amazonas
- COSANPA - Water and Sewerage Company of ParA
- PMAR - Municipality of Angra dos Reis
- SANESUL - Municipality of Mato Grosso do Sul
PART "B" - SANASACAMPINAS
Sub-Projects              Rtponsilbte for             Borrower             hiuplemisenting       U of        Works          Works
Counterpart                                        Agency           Biddings    Start Date     Completion
S|NASA/CAMPINAS  SANAS/PREF. MUNIC.  SANASA  NAS  19   7      Jul -57      Au -96Date
SANASA/CAMPINAS            SANASA/PREF. MUNIC .  SANASA                         SANASA __           19  17        July-87     Aug 96



29
Table 6. Proiect Costs (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate          Actual
Low-income PROSANEAR Component
Water subprojects                                     12.3                    71.6
Sewerage Subprojects                                  64.3                   96.7
Drainage,solid waste, in-house sanit. inst.            8.6                    4.2
Health educ., com. mobiliz., eng'g, supervis.                                 8.5
Studies and Training                                   0.9                     1.3
SUBTOTAL                                              86.1                   182.2
Campinas Component
Water treatment plant                                 27.5                    59.8
Water transmission pipelines                          41.7                    23.5
Water reservoirs                                       4.7                     7.6
Unaccounted for water control                          7.7                    2.1
SUBTOTAL                                              81.6                    93.0
Engineering and Supervision (5%)                       8.4                 ---
Base Cost                                            176.1                  275.2
Physical Contingencies (5%)                            8.8                  --
Taxes and Import Duties
Total                                               184.9                   275.2
Price Contingencies                                    5.8                    1.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   190.7                  277.1



Table7. Proiect Financing (US$ million)
Low-income                            SANASA                             Total
Entity                        Apraisal Estimate    Actual           Apraisal Estimate      Actual
Bank                           50.0  50%          50.0  28%           30.0   33%         30.0   32%           80.0  29%
CEF                            25.0  25%          59.0  32%           15.4   17%         15.0   16%           74.0  27%
Local Government               25.0  25%          72.7  40%                                                   72.7  26%
Campinas Municipality                                                 27.2   30%         13.6   14%           13.6   5%
SANASA                                                                18.1   20%        36.2   38%            36.2  '13%
Total                          100.0  100%       181.7  100%          90.7   100%       94.8   100%           276.5  100%             O



Table 8: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
I   FY891   FY901   FY91 1   FY921   FY931   FY941   FY951   FY961   FY97
Appraisal estimate             35.7      53.8    65.4      72.3     77.5     80.0
Actual                          18.0     18.4     20.8     20.8     25.8     29.9     49.2     76.7      80.0
Actual as % of estimate        50.4      34.2     31.8     28.8     33.3     37.3     61.6     95.9    100.0
Date of final disbursement:  March 12,1997



32
Table 9. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ million)
Category                                    Appraisal       Dec. 89          Final
1.   Goods and Works for the Low-
Income Component
IA.  Water Sanitation                         44.33          44.13           48.74
1B.  SD sub-projects                           5.0            5.0            0.40
2.   Consultants' Services
2A.  Studies on improved delivery              0.27           0.27            0.17
methodologies
2B.  Technical Assistance to Borrower          0.40           0.60            0.69
for evaluation and supervision
3.   Goods, Works and Services for            30.00          30.00           30.00
the Campinas Component
TOTAL                                   80.00          80.00           80.00
*SD Subproject means a specific project consisting of the construction, expansion or improvement of
complementary sanitary installations such as in-house sanitary installations, solid waste collection and
storm water drainage.



33
Table 10: Sub-project Areas and Per Capita Costs
Uf|SubProjeets Aras                               Cost USS        PoPijaion    Per Capita   Type of Solubon for   Obs.
UF SLib.                                      7.371-33_____816_120                  Sarnatl            _______n______
PA  Belemn        IPASEP          Water                  2,371.633       19.81      120
Sanitaton             7.666,309       19.816     387      CondonmaiiUAS3
Coeitmro        Water                 3,808,006       38,758      98
Sentation             a 259.413       38.758     213      CondomniaeWAS8
GCuanabara      Water                 2,427.263       29.553      82
Sataaton              3.775,900       29.553     128      CondonliniaWAS3    __       _ .
9ergui          Water                 3.273,956       38284       86
Sanitadon             9,659.961       38.284     252      CondominlaUAS3
Conong.               1,179.191
__________   ___________ PC/ES                      1.287.654      126.411      10       -
43,679,285
MS Campo Grande Los Angeles       Water                   969.505        8.098      120
Sanrtaton               166.613        8.098      21      Drainage PKt
Aero Ranrrho    Water                   204,433        2.425      84
Sanitaton                47,921        2.425      20      Drainat Pit
OoLrados      Cachoeinrna     Sanitaton               661,784        6,523      100      Condormial
ConqlL w1ks             184,478                                              Lowwn of wtear tabc
Compt Wks.               88,557                                              2846 in house saritry u-iAs
ConIin.                 207,385
PC/ES                 1,182.508       17.146      69
3,713,165
AM  Maraus        Sante EOtena    Water                   644,885          ,594      67
Sanitaton                60.515        1.938      31      Draina_e fK
Novo Reno       Water                   526,836        8,376      63
Saritatlon               14.797        1,585      9       Drmince Pit
Noav israel     Water                   937.504       32.304      29
Team Nova It    Water                   625.427        8.304      75
Terra Nova fi1  Water                   706.266        4.524      156
Jorge Teixeira 11   Water               465.037        8.652      54
Jorae Teixerda III  Water               696.995       22 362      31
J. Te4L Aodit   Water                   722,658        8,400                                 Addtonal  fwwk twdet by COSAMtA
PCIES                   481,459       94.1161     5                          Dowsn.t indud prodectmoien
5,8E2,3S99
PE  Recee         Canea/B. 'Asla    Water                 343.423         6,816      50
SariteiOon              821,868        4.920      t 167   Condo5niaiaASB
v/cm W s             667.740  _  _  _  __                  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _
Pbiart  MacsOos  Saritaton              969,450        3,670      264     Cor,lotr1iat1JASS   CorsL Storm Water Oranaga Canai
CrorpL lcs              127.252
PC/ES                   276.192       10.486      26
3,205,925
MG Juaz e Fora   Sao Pedo         Wabr                    247.531         3,478      71
______________Sannt_on                  295.506        3,478      85      Conventontal
Sao Geraido     Water                    73,406        3.054      24
Sandafon                1 12.927       3,054      37      Conventiorat
Vita Espemancai    Water                34,8761        3.550      99
Pg. Inepeente/,, Sarlttalon              2659,         3.550      36      C'orrienboa          ____________
Pqeia           water                   338,393       2040       166
SarntEt on               85.235        2.0401     42      Coraentonaton
Mito 3ranco     Water                   418,168        5.550      75
LPC/ES                   53,631       17.6721     3
2.101.,251
RJ Rio de Janeir   Morodo slado   Water                   364,000         6,000      61
Sanrtaton              930.000        6S000      155    1Conorivilg
More CIO AToz    water                  2382.000       2.600      108
Saniaton                103,000        2.800      40      Condonrinial
MeonProtedencia Water                  :841000         9,784      86
SanKatdn              1,508,000        9,7841    18      tCondoniat         I
MarroCasrlio   Water                    557,000        5.000      11      1
SInitaton               315,000        5.000      63      Cordonial
Moo Uriao   W ater                      963,000        7.000      138
Morro Jwnerto   Water                   698,000       18,W5       38
Santaton              1.671.000       18.250      92       Cot'do*eal
Morro Tiro     vWater                   352.000        4.400      80
Sarttabon               413.000        4.400      94      Condomnat
UrntbuCaranuu   Water                   560.000       11.500      49
Mangueira       Water                 1,293.000       21,510      60
Sanitation     |      2846000         21.510      132
ConMpLAjarai    Water                 2,691,000        9.060      297
Sanitetion            1.813.000        9,060     200
Manr Grandte    Water                   426.000        4,000      107
ISantaton               200.000        40001      S0
Atemao          Water                 7,430.000       80,800      92
SanKaton              1.937.000       80,800      24
1J.. Operano    water                 1,738,000        4.250      409
Ftuba           Water                   958,000        3.605      266
Saniteton               487.000      3*605        135
Carec Merxes    Wate                   1,940,000      15.800      123
_Saritaton              105.000       15.800       7
Mdgat           Water                 Z287.000       22.000      104
Santaton              Z005.000        22o000      91       _           _
Baelm           Water                Z180,.000       20,000      109
Sanritaon      |      Z332,000        20.000      117      _                |
JDO Beia Mar    Water                  1.116,000      17.360      64
ISannaton              1.645.000       17,360      95       _
PO. Boa Esper.   Water                  340,001        5.700      60
Setatton                694.000        5.700      122      _                  _
PO Otwatlo CrZ rarntabon                 29.000            0 0
V. TuisrnoJU Go  Water                 670.000       19,200       35
_______Saritaton              1.681.000       19.200      82
Lagarma         water                   981,000       13.566      S5
Saitation               710.0001      13,586      52 *  I
PCQ ProL Vigano   Water               1.246.0001      120001      104



34
UF Su&Pro^ets   Areas             atve"an        Cost USS        PopLiason    Per Capit    Type ot Sotu6on for  Obs.
Saritaton
_SanRiteon            1.032.000      12 000      86
PQ. Prt do Diqu  Water                    19.000        0                      __
\Ala Castanha   Water                  208.000        3.500      59
Sarftdon               381.000        3,500      109
Vih Crtero      Water                  922000        7.000      132
Sardtatn               589.000        7,000      84
Morr ca Fe     Water                   424.000       3.000      141
Unao del Casebo  Water                  166.000       5o.o       33
Saritaton              397.000        5,000      79     I
Vila Isa"e1 Maac. Water               2,363.000      16,180      146
sartaton              1.485.00O      16.180      92
Fornga          Water                 1.738,000       9.000      193
Sanitaton             1.100,000       9,000      122
Baan a         Waer                     68.000         170      400
Satiaton                50,000         170      294
Ramos/R. pinto   Water                 394.000       13.800      29
Sartton               1 t,288,W0     13,800      93
Roa-art         Water                10.970.000     100,000      110
Sanlta60n            11,202.000     100,000      112
PCIES                                                                      Cartie out Intermaly
_                                       ~~~~~~~~~        ~         ~        ~~~~85,933,C000l_
RJ Angu dcs Res Frade             Saritaton              603.051       10298       59      ConCdoririaUWASB
Frade           Drainage               754,431       10.298      73                                . . _
Gantoa Bracti   Water                   49,413         214      231
Saritaton               76,244         214      356      SeSb TorwEtter
Panaso         Water                    34.024         340      100
Santaion                49.953         340       147     Drainage Ft
RJ ANgados Res Aga Santa          Water                   21.206         327       65
Sania6on                61.205         327       187     Drainage PFt
Mortusca       Watr                     98.679        5,334      19
Sanitation             146.045        5.334      27      ConrmariaWJASB
MortsLaba       Drata ae               431,827        5.334
cawera         Water                    59.212         735       81
Agua Santa      Water                    21,206        327       65
Sanitton                61.205         327       187     Dramage P1t
Camodtm Peno  Sanitation                101.788       1.146      89      CrnniaWASS
G3azreoa3eMelm    Saritaton             184.496       4.418      42      CondonaniiJASB
Praia do Jardm    Santtion              83.616        2,400      35
Praia de Cthacara  Sanittion            25.236        4.4001     59      lCorndoniaWUASB
Abraao          Sanitation             255.056        3.150      81      CondOmnel
Jaacba          Sanitation            1.004.318      17,741      57      ConraiotnaUASB
EntW3 Areal    Saretaton               790.105        7.250      109
EnsaadalMetiro   Saitatwo               49.319        1.625      30
Marris atba     Sanltaton             13872 135        3.428     SS
80rfim          Sanritlaon              132.657        546      254    CSrdomiriUi-ASB
P.CIMadnta/M.C  Santaton               236,504        6.100      35      Condvtomnai
JoJuiba         water                  400.414       1771        23
V.    tubas     Water                  162.462         .3526     29
Cteno           Watar                  4S9.S6        17 99i 27           _
Maiteriats            2,745.450
Conftfng.             2,19S.SS1
_                       ~~~~       ~     ~     ~~~~~PCIES  3 .365.026
Be JreM I         Maicro de Fatrm   Santtaton   _        1336.7270      4,200      51S     Conventonal
11rwa II      N.S. Sparecia    Wiaelor                5,524         1,674      35
Sanitation             20.625        1.674      125     SepC e TaWFioner
CorntpL Wits            59.257        1.6723                               4 In4oause Swts Unt
FSonaepois ecV.Sareco I    Sanmtaon                   95.220        1,20       53      'lanventonai
V. Aparecda 1    -sanhb.on              163 620       1.045                                29 Cot-entiune
aTseor uzinhdoI   Sanation              68 6192       1           2264   '  63  Co 7wabtte  _
Sta. Terezinha 11  Sanrta n 7w1s14 19521 4                       591   Cor8Ianalt
M nspinh4       Sanrrt4=n               150.7321      4.480      3.4    lC;nvenootio
_ocoto          Sanitabon               16a.201       3,0        51      Cornenbowe
N. EspSeraenca  sanrtebon               91,3721        785       116    iComwenonal        .
IN. Horazonte   sanilteon                gO,63S       1.395      65      ICo"Menonal          7ihoueLtinPoao
_                       ~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~ComlpL wks  111 9t3 | 2,235                              4  ntOw  wsmFoin
Dramnge                 40,190        72750
SC Chaopeco       Sao Pedro       sanite6on               169,4351      3.2DC      53    lCorwertOha         In-house,Sanitary Unt
Comp. wks                61,9531      1.US              1                  209 in-ose urns
tJtrR        Passo Furndo     Sarito6n                8S.6121        725       122    ISepse TanWFDter I
Compt. Wks              59.7621        490              1                  98 In-hamrs unrs
Solidwaste               4,122         725
Drainage                53.579         725
PCOES                  347,028       26,047      13
353.3.7551             __ _ _                                 _    _
CE Fortaeza       Paktmera        Water                    84,003      17.040       5
Saritaton             1,859.471      17.040      109    iCordoriniallLagoon  Stabitzaton Latoon
Sao Mguel       Water                   48.465        3.230      15
SanItlon               405.670        3.230      126    fCondoaClIGesatFfter
P. Santa Amara   Water                  59.431       16,655       4
Saritlon                990867       16,655      6       NoExectiton
PL. Pic         Sartabtan             1.678.767      11,19f      150     CondoJtI3estFilter
Barroso         Sanittion              3391601        3.350     1o0      CondoJOigest.Filter
Juazeiro Norte  Sbl-acIa jell   Sanhtton            2813.878       62.570      42      Caodomniial
Romerao         Sanatan               3.240.3771     38n000      as 5     c4ndon.ala
C nut         Crateus         Santataon             3,529.184      26782       132     CondIlasoomUoast
Ou a         Oltxada          Salitaton              726.075        7,630      9S      CKrLdJLAOOr eat
corp.L                1,534.750       S,900o    260                        C   par wattsat
_______________________ PCIES                       1,580.948    223.377       7          _    _                 _
17,800,044



Table I A - SANASA -SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
US$ stions
1.988             1.989        1.990   ___             1.991             1,992              1,993             1,994              1,995         1.996    1.997    1. 998    1.999
Noev.                                                                                                                                               PMReel.    Nrov.    Real.    Prev.    Real.    Proc.    Real.    Prev.    Real.    Prey.    Real.    Prey.    Real.    Proc.    Real.    Pry  rev.    Prov.    Prey.
SOURCES:
Ientaloo Funds:
Not Income.                        15.48    14.04)   13.08    (1.06)   11.15      1.17    10.89     1.05    12.87   111.69)   14.32    18.58)   15.01       6.23    13.28      3.74    19.171   (9.291   (9.41)   (9.53)
Derodadotn                        2.38      1.94     2.79     1.80     5.51     1.45      7.29   -11.25        7.70    10.60  8.14    10.71_    8.61      8.64      8.98    17.68    19.45    19.71    19.96    20.22
A yustmonts tprerouslaoa seo.       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.0      0.0      0.00     0.08     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.000       0       .83     5.81     5.98      6.06
Interest pald                       3.18     0.00     5.86     0.0       7.42     0.00     7.45     0.00     6.38      0.00     5.30     0.00     4.93    (0.35)    6.688      0. 15    0.26     0.26     0.27      0.27
Total lotrmal Funda s              21.04    12.101   21.73 1 0.74    24.08        2.62    25.58    12.38    26.95    (1.091   27.76      2.13    28.55    14.52    28.84 121.57    16.37    16.59    16.80    17.02.
IBRO                      12~~~~~.53 2.3      .7       .8      34 0.00 00.26  0.00 10.21   0.00 10.021        0.00                       O 0.24 (401  0.18 1.7  .9 71  0.1  17.98  11.840   (1.862    11.894  1.931
CEF        6rLSURES 5.17    20.23    45.03                 8.44    32.21     3.30    25.57    12.5      27.19     4.906   27.94       .4    39.16    36.86    54.17    18.34       7.939   74.035   75.32    76.294
BoojpkyFoot                        37.00     0.00    29.45     0.00      310.4    0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00 OG       0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
Other Rote60                                 0.00     7.4      0.00     8.01      0.00     9.32     0.00     9.97      0.00    10.63     0.00    80.38      0.00    85.88      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
WhorlngCptl                                  0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     178  0.00         4.3 000    0.00     0.00 086  90     4.00    50.00
Total Bototnet                     29 4.00    02.00    237,09  0.00    18.343     0.00     9.32     0.00     9.97      0.00    10.63     0.00    25.81      05.00    251.21    0.00    08.00    09.00    60.00      01.00
ncE-rlolat                                   0.00e Txe  0. 00 0.00      0.000,27            .1 0.00          0.172 0.00         0.204 0.00  0.22            0.001 0.16 (.7  .7 71  025    07.00    01.00    01.00)   0.00)    01.00
PMCnraclps IDCes)NnFT                .1      0.00-    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     8.08     0.00     8.04      0.00    10.02     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    -0.00 --0.00       0.00      0.00
Totasl Oth. rio 0a5                          0.00    (0.00     0.0 -    0.00)    0.00    (0.00l    0.00      0.00    04.00)    0.008   05.00       0.00     0.00    (0.00)    07.00     01.00    01.00    0.00l    01.00
Wk role ct                         37-ndol09   .00  1.D 2.09   0.00    10.421     0.00     1.3      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
TOtalr DelatSedv -                  4.18   02.300     89  47. 811nO      9.03    90.71   17.80  (12.8    16.37   13.401    106.4   114.11          8.21   143.14     8.10    1.841    10.371     0.381    0.381    10.39
Phase oII0laAata01                           15  0. 21          .4 0.     18    10.28 0.    22    15.22 0.20   0      20.0  0.   19      7.70  0.0   8    18.50 0.0 823      21.39    68.88    69.88    70.48    71.37
Trotaliune,.sunrternts-E>4300 0.00 1.38                  9 0.00 1.8   43  0.00 4.79             0.00 6.63         0.00 6.32        3 0.00 8.30        1 0.00 4.121 0.00 7.9              .63     3.67     3.72      3.77
Itnreseforest paid      .1          3.184   27.24     0.786  (1478.4)    74.5   .2 I  96    .775   (31.16)    0.64  (135.405)    50.65   (748.411)    899   74.22    65.218   151453    10.49    10.50    10.52    10.54
CEe-pndpal &Ms. oO 0.00408                                 0.00 194      0.00    77.08      .1 0.00 106.1         0.00 040,8         0.00 203.7        0.00 50.16         0.00 194      O.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
TPtal  thrc>p4.0                            46.53     0.99   15.24       4.75    93.97    81.516  12.79           0.84 13.2    10.84   14.38       7.04    8000      515    34.17    73.77    74.72    75.69    76.68
Tntos nOthrALAPts ATO         05.17    20.23    45.03    29.4    32.219    10.30    025.5    152.5     027.1   20.120    27.98     3.750   39.18    36.86    54.16    218.33    73.39    74.34    75.31    76.29
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE               5.06     0.08     3.13     0.01      2.67     0.03     1.44     0.11      1.65     0.01     1.66     0.01      4.60     0.34     3.57      1.36    44.24    43.66    44.21    43.64



Table JI B- SANASA - BALANCE SHEETS
~~~~                     iKe~~~~~~~9     1989      11990                  1591            1992            1993             1994                        Ion 99  1997    199      1999    200
Prey.   Real-   Prey.   Rel Prey,   Real    Prey.   ReAL    Prv.   Reeg   Prey.   NW.~  Pr"              Ra.        Pe Real.     Prey.   Prey.   Prey.   Prey. IPrey.
CUSENTASSES
Casb&Baaiks            ~~~~~ ~~1.91 I0.117 I   1.911 .5  1.49    0.77    0.39    ,0      0.48    0.17    0.71.     0    0.19        I    0.79       0 10.02    0.02    0.02 10.02    0.02
MuIcelab  SeceaNlee             2.00 I0.96    2.00    9.21    5.00   10.34    3.00   10.19    3.00    0.30    3.00          1   11 50       2    8.00       0 10.02    0.02_   0.02 10.02    0.02
Accourils Mae.- Gross           7.30   11865    7.57   323      8.18   28.82    8 83   20.79    9.52   27.05   10.1        23   10.59      15   11.04      23   32.98   33.29   33.721 34,16   3461
Prav. Doubt. Accis              0.51    06)  (0.71)  139 0) 0.921   1.0M    1.141   2.94   11.37   13.9)  (1.611           (1   11.941     12   (2.9        1     2.87    2.911   2.941 12.9a9   3.0
hsveoloiles                     1.29    1.99    1.36    1.41  1i.45    1.99    1.60   0.99    1.78    1.22    1.03          2    2.09       1    2.25       2    2.13         2.1692,1     2.21    2.24
Olher CUr.aalASS.SIS            1.97     06_   2.05    2.21 12.21    2.890    2.39    2.81    2.5?    3.22    2.74          1    2.99       0    2.99       1     2.98     .0     3.03    307    3.11
Total Curgent Assesto:     13914_47   14 .25   42 38   17.38   4369   15.00   31 92   15.9    29.10   16.90           26   25.30       17   22.47      25 35. 12   35.08   36 04   29051   36 99
FIXED ASSESTS:
oral  Plant          ~~~~~~63.35  120.99  125.03  1982.13  165 47   76.93  174.79  342.02  1174.79  412.99  195.38  559  203.77  197  212.84    298  303 77  388.76  393.82  398.94  404.12
Net0perating Assests           44.36   79.75  103.25  113.69  130.17   46.73  140.20  200.13  142.48  291.88  144904     366  144.72      116  144.611   168  231.17  233.77  237.02  240.31  243.39
WM4n-Progrees:                 46.59  119.21   22.00  193.04    0.00   91.91    0.00   26.74    0.0 43.29    0.00          39   17.53      41   59.88      17   29.64   29.02   29.39   29.77   30.16
Net flxoedAsseto:       90 95  197.96  125.25  286.73  138.17  128.54  140.20  2989?8  142.49  235.07  144.94      405  162.25     197  204.49      185  259.81  262.79  266.41  270.08  273.55
OTHER ASSETS:I
Len -Tefns Receivables          0.72    0.56    093    III    1.12    1.99    1.34    0.71 I1.54    3.57    1 .74          19    1.79       4    185        9    8.51    9.63    8.74    8685    8.97 
Pr.olid Espenses                0 00 I0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 I0.00    0.00    0.00 I0.00    0 09    0.00              0    0.00       0    0.00       0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00I
Total OIherAssets:        0.72    0 56    0 93    1.17'   1.12    1.90    1.34    0.71    1.54    3.57    1.74       1 9    1.79      4    1.05       9    851      8.63    8.74    8 85    9.97
TOTAl.ASSETS           105.63  213.00  140.43  340.28  158 67  174.12  156.60  319.50  15.6366.74  163.58         450  189.40      178  228.81     219  303.44  307.00  311.19  315.44  319.50
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
t3o BeS    Hero               358   77.10    308   74.40    1.r54   28.24    0.78    9 27    083       4.71    0.69     17    2.16        4    4.21       5     7.81    791    8.02    812    923
AccoWsmlPa able                 0.85    1.46    0.99    3.00 I0.96    1.05    1.00    6.70    1.17    0.99   1.29           0    1.39       0    5.50       0    1.00    5.01    1.02    1.04    1.05
pVenslon LlaE                   0.10    5.79    0.00   11 96    0.00   11.36    0.00   11.91    8.00   14.14    0.900      20.  0.00        5    0.00       10   22.38   23.89   24.00   24 31   24.62
other                           0 83    0.32    0.58    2,49    0.93  _2.01    1.03    5.40    1.14    9.84    1.25        17    1.35       5    1.46       9    7.51    7.61    7.71    7.81    7.91
Cworen Mat. Iong-Term           1.09   19.12    1 60    310   10 36    893    9.99    1.81   11.17   25.72  _1.28          59    1.42      17    1.57      29   29069   27.04   27.39   27.74   28.10
Total Curnent LabWtIes:     6.45  103.79    6.47   94.95   13.79   44.19   12.94   35.17   14.31   63.43    4.71     113    6.32       31    8.00      53   66.40   67.26   68.114   89.02   69.92
LONG TERM LIABIUTIES
Losa-Tenm Debt IBRD/CEf        21.01    0.00   32.84   61.50   36.44   4163   3565   42.02   34.70   42.15   3364         44   32.46       19   31.16      21   20.70   21105   21.33   31 61   21.89
Lono.T.hs CEF                   4.42   18 35    a951   41 35    7867   16.59    7.50   29.19    7.30   43.74    7._0_9    56    6.93       27    8.59      39   19.85   1990 I20.17   20.43   20.69
Lon -Tens MontepalO            152    20.46   24 09   51.54   19 05  3L1.51   10.0    27.80    0.00   22 22    0 00       23    0.00        5    0.00       2    4.13    4.S19   4.23    4 29 I4.34
Phase I Loan                    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0500    0.00    0 00    000    0.00 I0.90          0i 10 52         0   35.93       0   34.18   24.60 135.05   3551   3597
WorklE CaOal Loan               2 54    0 00    133    000    00         000oo   0.00    0.99    000    0.00    0.00        0    0.00       0    0.00       0    052    0.53    0.54    0.54    0.55
DGerried lncoms Tax              .6    0.69    1.33    0.97    1.11    0 39    1.07   29.55    1.29   30.29    1.45       19    1.52       15    1.321    11    9 00      919    930    9.42    9.54
Pension Non-FGTS                0.14    1.09    0.15    1.91    0.16    2.42    0.18    0.64    0.19    0.786     .2        1    023        1    0.25       2     1 87    1.89    1.91    1.94    1.96
Total Lonq*Tors Liabi t:    44.97   49.59 I6865  157.27 I64.43   94.53   54.41  127 99   43.48  139.13   42.38        143   51.08       67   75 22      75   90.17   91.34   92.53   93.73   94 94
EQUITY:
Pald-ln-Cagllal                13.40 16.76   13.40    5 70 113.40    3 81   13.40    6 00   13.40   77.43   13.40         99   13 40       34   13.40      43   64.21   65 04   65.89   66.75   67.61
C  atga Reserves                0 79 15637    9 79   86637    9 79   33 91    9.79  102861    9.79   4920.  978           65    9.79       25    0.79      31   65 73   68 59   67 45   68.33   69.22
Eamd Surplus                   31.04 13.51)  44.12    8.0 55.27    1.30)  66 .12   47.67   76.99   37.53   93.31          39  109.32       1 9121.60       17   16.94   17.16   17.39   17.81 117.84
Total Ea8             54.23   59.62   67.21   85.89   78.46    5.2 89.31  1i5634  102.1 164.1   116.50          204  131.51       79  144.79      91  146.89  149.79  152.69  152 69  154.67
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY  105.65  213.00  140.43  338.11  158.68  174.13  156.56  319 50  159.97  10.7    63.59    460  189.39         176  228.91     293.4 3039313.36  315 44  319.53
Courrest tao                    2.0      ,4    2.20    0.42~  1.26    099    1.17   0.91    1.12    0.44    3591  0 32    4.01    0.53    2.65    0.49    0.55    0.55    0.65    0565    0.55



Table 11C - SANASA - INCOME STATEMENTS
Units             I 99             J9  --          1.990                     191.           ,     1.992                1991                 1 95           .......j955           1.999      1,997      1,999     1.999      2.900
Prey.     Real.     Prew.      Real.     Prey.      Real.     Prow.     Read.      Prey.     Real.      Prey.     Real.      Prey.     Real.      Prey.  IReal.        Prev.      Prey.      Prey.     Prey.      Prey.
Paralo  rowlS.                  9           5.75      2.20      5 55      2.20       0235      2.20       15.5       .0        4.9       1.75       4.75      9.50       4.40      1.45       4.50       1.40        9          1         I          I        1.30
P.  ellen            l~~~~~~Hb  909       =81l4LO'i92TiI     9_29&20t  1T69-494      479    12319984 55  1.179,90              793      23 -309    9929S7    2a90,j                 0            4     9309       0423479       730      74        94
P   nered Water.               19         98.05      99.13      9.        9.0         0.                  999      990'93               9.7 9517               4        9.90      91.99                 92.I 24     9          9         9I
P   onlery  Wale,             hb.       909 949     23210     9920      9_ 242l  99 993   909405:   0395 1I1                   .41~               7  9      9       9         =2" 12~3  a9       9                _94091 T  _999   92903       999 9I
P  lee Sed lewy                %9         753        79.70      93       909         9.2       0.0.9     792M99UM7.9                               9.         90         0         93        9.0        9.3         949                   99                  4 
Soaloerved Savir              hab.      72405       499694    772A    9970555    929 934   994957    97909       9949                 70292    997.374         97.02  9.04. 2       041  1A099        7449144   7949191   903.435    997273    930.95      920.4
No. Waler Eronewlie       wil~urd.  22   ?     2993229   240 714   22,0 94    2 9250     4   2       31       492       225    20790         310.945   297.422   32  49     29 99      299         979    2998   200,519   299939    320.922    32 392
IloSewer.  rynsoerlcy     roO~ud    lo  979    9992      2946900   200027   297992   309024    2329825    2131           494      3296110    294.305    239 259   379.499    24090    29999      2039509  20399    272,297    2991J10    299111    2990105
Vot elf rd9ed                                9470nOk   9279      90,470    97 259    94,390    99.977    9909040    902990    9979       109 723   929 040    99399       25,440    1990457    131 0     10131IOD 910990    199295    1199924    129 483    122.949
VWlsaer Said                    100mm       999         99       79990Q    92329      77.250    90655      R9903     9 9Og      90.200    980090     99.020    99097    990250       19222 904900           99     9              9                 99349      92234
a                                %9IOdo.We.9  3.45     4.9       29.90      4.0       2.0        38.40     24.90      37.90     22.9         9         .0         .4.00  34.57                 20,00      32.991      20         29     -27           20       2 .98
Vol=ew    999d                      er        599600     4 250     99970         97     90990     924!        909      587        79750     94,079     940       597        920       090        002        39        00         79         94        09923      709
09.        e-   .0r                 ud.       1949       197        933        9932      915         34       99042     90209      991       0,99        77       10859       93       994        1          1 942    1.37       19837      992        99237      99837
No. gl2 rconrn.- eow ed            wId.      9525625    1459965   992944    9499990   972142    1549672    995-079    9592377    997.404    192.550    290.090    997149    299.793  123          95       798 999             180           40     290         220
e. wer Co0ll -yer-end              .      12 79        09       2          294      152        30 9        5 14                                                                   9499550_   99232452   95729 590 446490   1999875    97539_19               9
E   .71sMM WaterCanms           9            9.93     92.21      9.43      12.23      9.90      99.29      9.99       9.9       9.7   99030.44       9.42      999K.9               919         .9       903o0                  9           9         9        9.920
Water Reye90                    US$ 9490es     29.90     14.23     22.43      39.43     24.199    40.99      24.19      34.79     28.27      34.20I   20.90      27.97      31.42I   30.79       32.93      59.90      57.95     so9.99     59.37     90.94      996.92
Zewera  Revenues    US srlievs     9~~~5.05  92.07      16.59     20. 9      9991      29.29     99.20      31.25     99.95      32.99     2.69       29.49     21.93    _20.9        22.2      49.6 9     0.09      09.31      57.04      57,70     90.02
Ceeeotee eReyea   eMl9oye.                      2. 4      1.8       2.2      -2.99       3.19       3.31      3.33       09.0       .                   3.        0          3. 5       0.3       4.93       0.99       0.90 000             0.00ov    0.90       0.00
OtlnurRaeenues                  US nrl9vy      0.90       9.90      0.90-      0.99      0.20       .990      8.95      91.90      0.90       2.99      0.95       9.4       0.08       1.99      9.40       4.47      9.99       0.92       0.3        .94       0.90
TOTAL    ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ 295               3.9       49.023        4      44,29      64.43     47.99      79.02     51.92      91.00     04.99      70.94    0V7.79       22        99        0.9       94.5       95789.4              997       120.30
OPOR.PRO9ITBEOREF9490IC99.US$ amIos   20.20      23.70     20.27      29.51     19.29     3290       99.372     ..         .50        0.257    29.407     39.20     29.49      95.72      9.29      47.2       53.69      9.38       994        99 5.2   6.
Oldallees-O Cr. Pro  ~USS wlloys     0.70       102       0.00       0.00      0.040       .(  0.00            0.00                 0. 0      0.00 1.8   11          i        o0.33         2      0.        -0.00      0.09       0.09       0.0       0.00o o
NONOPORATIONALROVOI4UES  US gy45yy 2.193      742       50       274         7.4 02   90.89       7.45     30.32       2.20     95.452      2.04    29.52        4.92       9.09      9.0        9749.2              9.00       94.09      94.29     14.4
PROPI BEFORE SMOS      ~~~USI wOOly.    97.09    44.9      94.4      99.49      920.29 7472           99.0     90.19      94.20    9I9.5       9.7  2     99.827    19.2        7.74      24.0       2.03      7.03       7.92      78.22      7.39       7.490
SyceyneTa.             ~~~~~~~USSimilSoos  1.90   0.45      9.23       9.0.0     9.90   29   0.00        2.      0.0        20       0.700      9.45      0.0        9.52       0.79      9.32       0.47      0.05       0.30       0.00      0.30       0.30
fEorCOMEL Ace                                949      4.7         201974               1.0      7.7         09      904.99       092.9   906.5       94.3         24.9    90.09      7.74      93.29      2.9        7.02       7925      7223       739        749
ueRall                       9          Ol9       4.20       5.9        753T      i6 58       99  -      99 _    F690         9.25   1.0         13 959s92 o.10        so         94 03      00      1  7       870   93 1    904                          9.1
TOTRALlu                            90                  . 28 00 _207   4 5.47           2436          59,4   2.44           9 ,  9 3i1          97        478    92A           493        796   3. 50       07         077S         77ol   117           77me       77I2
FinanialRvenues                 US$2                         9         96 72.0             14         29        1470-  138           940 00 -40     0    95 --09                93        90                    4                  1.3333



Table 12. The CamDlnas Component: Recalculation of the Rate of Return
1988        1989        1990         1991         1992        1993        1994         1995        199S        1997         1998         1999   2000-2021
Volume of water billed COO m3)                          59,199      63,329       66,553       66,927       68,068      69,017      71,622      75,879       82,007      84,713      87,509       90,397      93,380
IncFemental water sales                                              4,130        7,354        7,728        8,869       9,818      12,423      16,680       22,808      25,514      28,310       31,198      34,181
Water revenues (current, USS)                       $15,940,000  S34,240,000  $44.120.000  $35,690,000  $35.150,000  $37,990,000  $30,890,000  $51,710,000  $57,850,000  $58,810,000  $59,370,000  $60,140.000  580,920,000
Incremental revenues                                            $18.300,000  $28,180,000  $19,750,000  $19,210,000  $22,050,000  $14,950.000  $35,770,000  $41,910,000  $42,870,000  $43,430,000  $44,200,000  $44,980,000
Incremental water revenues due to new investment                 $2,232,961    $4,875,189    $4,121,092   $4,579,911   $5.404,260  $5,357,941   $11,367,082  $16,089,392  $17,652,387  $19,206,857  $20,755,448  $22,299,130
Incremental sewerage revenues due to new investment              $2,232,961   $4,875,189    $4,121,092   $4,579,911   $5,404,260   $5,357,941   $11,367,082  $16,089,392  $17,652,387  $19,206,657  S20,755.448  $22,299,130
Total Revenues                                                   $4,465,922   $9,750,379   $8,242,184   $9,159.821  $10,808,520  S10,715,883  $22,734,184  $32,178,785  $35,304.735  $38,413,314  $41,510,897  $44,598,280
Investment costs                                                $52,473,000    $689,000   $3,435,000   $5,888,000    $341,000  $17,725,000   $9,319,000   $3,132,000
Total Operation and Maintenance costs               $26,130,000  543,670,000  $50,020,000  $55,640,000  560,970,000  $70,020,000  $43,900,000  $80,990,000  $87,830,000  $88,950,000  $90,130,000   $91,3000  $92,490,000    0D
O&M costs of water operations                       $20,904,000  $34,936,000  $40,016,000  544,512,000  $48,776,000  $56,016,000  $35,120,000  $64,792,000  $70,264,000  $71,184,000  $72,104,000  $73,040,000 573,992,000
Incremental O&M costs                                           $14,032,000  $19,112,000   $23,608,000  $27,872,000  $35,112,000  $14,216,000  $43,888,000  $49,360,000  $50,280,000  $51,200,000  $52,136,000  $53,088,000
Costof O&M for incremetnal water due to investment               $2,278,351    $4,421,704    $5,139,760   $6,355,326   $7,968,545   $6,091,644  $14,242,815  $19,542,006  $21,439,449  $23,326,205  $25,207,482  $27,083,999
Costof O&M for incremental sewerage due to investment             $455,670     $884,341    $1,027,952   $1,271,065   $1.593.709   $1,218,329   $2,848,563   $3,908,401   $4,287,890   54,665,241    $5,041,496   $5,416,800
Total Costs                                                     $55,207,021    $5,995,045   $9,602,712  $13,514,391   $9,903,254  $25,034,973  $26,410,378  $26,582,408  $25,727,339  $27,991,446  $30,248,978  $32,500,799
$55,596,194   $5,711,737   $8,960,741  $12,091,000   $8,886,863  $21,684,925  $21,123,066  $21,805,801  $20,751.603  $22,091,806  $23,268,545  $24,319,769
Net Benefits                                                   ($50,741,099)  $3,755,334   ($1,360,528)  ($4,354,570)   $905,266 ($14,319,091)  ($3,676,214)  $5,596,377   $9,577,396  $10,421,868   $11.261,919  $12,097,461
Net Benefits (constant S)                                      ($51,098,790)  $3,577,868   ($1,269,573)  ($3,895,929)   $812,357 ($12,402,986)  ($2,940,243)  $4,590,761   $7,725,102   $8,225,294    $8,663,052   $9,052,314
IERR        9.03%
Notes:   Discount rate: 10%
Project life: 33 years: new water treatment plant reaches capacity in 2006.
Unaccounted-for water is assumed at 30%
Tariffs for water and sewerage are equal
O&M for water is equal 80% of total O&M



Table 12A. Rate of Return for Selected Subproiect Areas under Current (social) and Averaoe Tariffs and Comparisons with Conventional desians
Cur. Bill as
Area                  Water    Water       Sewage    Current IERR under  Current % of 3 min.        Full Wat. Full Sew. Would-be  IERR under Would-be Avg. Bill
Use,  Tariff (social Tariff (social  IERR    conv. des. Avg. Bill  salaries   Tariff    Tariff    IERR    conv. des. Avg. Bill % of 3 MS
m3/mo.     US$         US$                (see note)    US$     $330            US$       US$               (see note)    USS    $330
MorrodoCampinho            15        0.36       0.36    3.15%       0.14%     10.80     3.27%           0.57       0.6   14.39%       9.25%     17.55    5.32%
(Rio de Janeiro)
.                                                      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SaoPedro                   18        0.33        0.25       0           0    11.36      3.44%            0.33     0.66    6.97%       4.22%     17.82    5.40%
(Julz de Fora)
Palmeiras                  10        0.32        0.18       0           0      4.96     1.50%            0.42      0.5   12.79%       8.19%      13.8   4.18%
(Fortaleza)
Bengui                     20        0.26        0.13       0           0       7.8     2.36%            0.59     0.48    9.42%       4.87%     12.28    3.72%
(Belem)
Note:   the costs of conventional design were assumed to be 40% higher than the low-cost technology used in the subprojects



Table 13   MONITORING INDICATORS
OPERATIONAL
PnvIo.e... 100O.o.,0-tonR                           9.83    12.20       8.43   -12.,20      8.10    11 20       8.8     88          .8?     8.83  8--43    11A0       820    1.181    7.89    1037    10.03        8.71     8.40 __.10   8. 82
Popllon e.d W.I.r                                  88 65    88.30       89.58    11.78     8050    t 8530o     92.80    91.83     93.50    80,?7   85.80    91.48    85.00    81.       SO      82 24    85.08 93.11    88.52    8887    856 8
PouU5on -rv,d Sewer                       %        75 35    79.70       78.13    80.00    97.82    80.80       78.20    80.80     7948    79.9t    50.75    79.05    20.75    78.33    80   1.02    8433    88.25 _85.81    82    84 _8
Ikoc,,*.d-for Wate                                30.45 I41.80         38.00    48 70      28.00 I28.40       24 05    37.80      3200-  33.88    21.800   33 44    20.00    34.57      0.0     32.51    29882    25.44f  27.03    25.83    248
FINACIAL                                                                               ____
o,slC,. raiOt i                                    48.78    91.70       50.5    69.50      SS 64    00.95       8.951    94.20     82.1   100.81    61.61    0830              84_42 _           933     94.00    9400     8 94 0018.0    940
fl.bIIEoWy                                %        48.30    45.401      48.85    84.10     45.10    73 20      37.80    48.00     28910    49.10
Debt serAcec e58 a84r tio                           5.06    0808        3.13     0.50       2 67     0.03       1.4     0.11       1.65     0.01     1.68    881               0.34              1.36    448      4       44.05    44.05    4405
LOW-4COME COMPONENT
Water coonnrcUn (1                                     0       0       11,000              11,000             11000                                                                                      32,000  182,600
tOeI5inBsw9'nW.sleWale insI8885Qs(1)                   8       0       38.050              38,000             38,050              380800                                                               102.800  179,600
In 90s8 sandary InsSLltlons                            0       0        3.500              3,500               3,000              2.500                                                                  9.300
ECONONIC
ifhon Wae                           ____   ___          072____              7835              1483___              480323            1 15784  __   2.708 17 _            1.093 85  --        14.771  A900       9.0900            9.00     9.001
lIxdcanoe rat. US$                    Local cn  _        2d3.970           _    2.8  _             88.00             403 829             .492.824          8842               0 930       0        _  89 18  1.0031 I  1.001    1 0  1501    1.801
en aSsral580 em sI90o Spsasen,o cnetig 
NWe: Dala for 1997 are SANASAPr8ctions



41
Table 14: Bank Resources: Staff Inouts
Staff Week              US$ Dollars
Project Preparation                119.70                  230,900
Project Supervision                197.00                  504,000
ICR Preparation                     5.00                    6,300
Total                             321.70                   741,210



Table 15. Bank Resources: Missions
Number of   Days in          Specialty           Financial        Management        Availability
Stage of Project Cycle          MonthNYear       Persons       Field      Representation       Performance        Performance        of Funds
Identification                             Feb-86           1            4     ECO
Apr-86           3           10    E, F, URB
Preparation                                Jul-86           3            5     E, F, C
Sep-86           3            5     E, F
Jan-87           3            5
Pre-appraisal                              Mar-87           6           11    E, FECO, LEG
Follow-up on pre-appraisal                 Jun-87           3            9     E, F
Appraisal                                  Oct-87           4           10    E, F, ECO
Supervision
I                       Apr-89            2           3     E, ECO
2                        Jul-89           2           11    E, F                          2                  3                3
3                       Sep-89            2           3      E, F                         2                  3                3
4                       Jan-90            2           15    E, F                          2                  3                3
5                       Sep-90            2           14    E, ECO                        1                  2                2
6                       Nov-90            2            7     E, F
7                       Aug-91            2           7    E, ECO
8                       Feb-92            2           13    E, ECO                         1                 2                2
9                       Apr-92            1           2      E
10                      Jun-92            1            3     E
11                       Sep-92           1            2     E                             1                 2                2
12                       Nov-92                                                            1                 2                2
13                       Feb-93           1            7     E                             1                 2                2
14                      Aug-93            2            7     E, ECO
15                       Sep-93           1            4     E
16                       Feb-94           1            1     E
17                      Aug-94            2            4     E, F
18                      May-95            2            7     E                             1                 2                2
19                      Sep-95            2           10    E, F
20                       Mar-96           1            3     E
21                       May-96           2           12    E, E                           1                  1                1
22                       Oct-96           1            8     E                             1                  1               2
ICR Preparation                           Oct-96            1            2     E
E-=Engineer;  F=Financial Analyst;  ECO=Economist;   C=Consultant  URB=Urban  LEG=Legal
Note: From July 1994 to September 1996, Task Manager was based in Brasilia.



Table 16: Studies Included in the Proiect
Study                Purpose                          Status                      Impact of Study
Review of experience  To document the technical       Was carried out by Prof.    The study is the first of its kind
with non-conventional information, costs, operation and  Cicero Onofre of the Fed.    reviewing the experiences with about
wastewater treatment  maintenance experiences with non-   Univ. of Rio Grande do  a decade of work with non-
systems              conventional systems in Brazil   Norte                       conventional lower cost systems;
published by CEF
Review of the        To examine the long-term         Carried out by Jose Carlos    Has contributed to the wider
experience with      sustainability of the earlier built  Melo and Gabrielle Watson   acceptance of condominial as viable
condominial sewers   systems                                                      solution; published by World Bank
under title "Cheap good sewers".
Willingness to pay for  To assess the willingness to pay of   Was carried out by Brazilian   Has shown that low-income groups
sanitation services  low income groups for sanitation  consulting group SOMA and  are willing to pay the existing social
services                         Consultant Anjum Altaf      tariffs.
Social tariffs study  To determine whether the existing    Carried out by Consultant    Has pointed out that social tariffs are
tariff policies in selected areas are    Vera Lucia Bazzanella (Nov.  generally set lower than minimum
adequate for viability of services  94)                     viable levels.



Table 17: Status of Leaal Covenants
Original   Revised
Aoreement  Section  Status       Date       Date   Description of Convenant                           Comments
L.A.        2.02     OK                             Payments from the Special Account shall be made in  Replenishment of $1.1 million to Special Account done.
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 and the
Contract Amendments
L.A.        2.03     OK         6/19/94  12/30/96    The closing date shall be June 30, 1994 (revised to 1995   First and second extension of 12 months each; third
and then to 1996).                               extension of 6 months.
L.A.        3.01 (b)   OK                           Borrower to enter into agreement with each project company
and project sponsor.
L.A.        3.05(b)   OK                            Borrower to fumish to the Bank for approval the sub-projects Borrower furnished list of projects for Bank approval.
to be financed under Part A.4 of the Project.
L.A.        3.05(b)   OK        6/19193             Prior to June 30,1991 the Borrower shall fumish to the Bank
for approval all sub-projects to be financed under the low-
income component.
L.A.        3.06     OK                             Prior to June 30 and December 31 each year, the Borrower
will submit progress reports on the execution of the low-
income component.
L.A.        4.02(a)   OK                            The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect the financial conditions of the project
P.A.        4.02(b)   OK                            The Borrower will submit audited financial statements and
the corresponding audit reports not later than six months
after the end of each year
P.A.        2.01 (b)   OK                           The Municipality of Campinas will lend $24.4 million to
SANASA in accordance with Project Imp. Schedule.
P.A.        4.01 (b)   OK                           SANASA will have its account & Financial statement audited
by independent firms and submit them to the Bank not later
than 6 months after the end of each year.
P.A.        4.02(a)   OK                            SANASA will produce enough revenue to meet operat.
expenses, the amount by which debt service exp. exceed
depreciation, dividends, working capital, icr. at least 20% of
annual project investment costs.
P.A.        4.03     OK                             SANASA will not incur long-term debt which would cause   SANASA reduced its long-term debt, different from the
total debt (excl. the loan) to exceed $5.0 million.  Bank loan, below 5.0 million.



45
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL
To
Mr. AsifFaiz
Divisicn Chief, Infrastructure and Urban Operations
Departmnent 1, Latin American and Caribbean Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Asif Faiz,
It is with great pleasure that we inform you that we have received the
implementation completion, report on the Prosanear Project. We would like to emphasize
some points that are considered very important even though they can all be found in the
report ient to us. The list below points out the main. items we have to pay attention to the
prener'ition and implementation of programs of this nature: (1) Community Participation
and b giene Education; (2) CEF StaffTeam; and (3) Quality of the Projects.
1- Cl -amunity Participation and Hygiene Education
It was the first time that engineers worked closely with social assistants, and at the
end   project, we can say that we have reached a new type of relationship between the
socia assistant and the engineer, that combined the knowledge of specialists from two
diffe- !nt areas for a specific Program.
Nobody can delay that this produced sanitation improvement. In the fiuture, all
implementation must consider these ideas to achieve better results in sanitation
impiem.entation, first because the population will be aware of what kind of service they
will have, by participating in the solution, and second, if will be up to the beneficiaries to
use the network problems in a correct manner in order not to see a decrease in the service
quality. We have to create mechanisms to make the borrower feel the need of establishing
a so, ial tearn structure to improve the new projects they will be developed, thereupon
man 1.,ge the system design, the construction and the operation and maintenance.
2- C   F Staff Team
We had Problems at beginning of the project, because of the lack of a group to
manage the program. Based on this, CEF created the Prosanear Monitoring and Technical
Assistance Group (GTMAT) in 1992, composed of specialized CEF employees
headquarted in Brasilia with the support of staff employees, of others states strategically
chosa;- n or near the cities where the project was being carried - out.
\9  Iy
."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,



46
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL
3- Quality of the Projects
Among the lessons we learned about the Prosanear Project, something else we
would like to mention, is about the concept with the beneficiaries, on all technical
inforrnarion about the area to avoid or minimize problems with chaining quantities, project
design, desapropriatios, that could cause unrecoverable delays.
[he other thing we have to take into account in the design plan is the importance
of having the connection between the in-house sanity installations and the sewerage
network financed in the contract.
We would like to thank the World Bank Staff that provided the CEF teamn with
specialists to strengthen the works and the success of the program.
Sincerely,
ADAON  ReIRADADE
Gerente Executivo
Prograrr4is e Projetos Especiais
Substituar .Eventual
Gerente de Area
Operaq6es com Setor Nblico



IBRD 28840
VENEZUELA                               FR.                              B R A Z I L
COLOMBIA .                              YV&j?/(G  ANA                     WATER PROJECT FOR MUNICIPALITIES
t  sRoroimcl ??a     141$JLAND LOW INCOME AREAS
map                   ~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
5I W  .s                            Ama0 TOWNS
STATE BOUNDARIES
1..,*                 A-n a20flaO                   8        .a,    -   ._ INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
_._>   |    S           p~~~~~~~anous  R        
Am(zcna-~ ~    -:?CZ7r                Parci         :Maronhar           .Ceara ortaleza
0'
j           ~B       R-                  A             Z          ;;I           *L     QuixoS >R r6
Ctu 0Qnconi    ->0 SRio Grande
L    IO Qi-c-0 Do Norte
JuP irs dB 'e
--j BOLIVIA ';  Brasilia                     j/Pernambuco
R-  t             i 6 n,                                        SergFD.i Minos  `< OCEgA
Giiroarosso                  Gri
\      r         )        ~~~~o Sgcma  Sao              Juiz de  .   spirito
g h _ t <>q jlLDourodos  Gronde                     p         Fora      San7to
oCmpinas      -
'~~~~  ~         ~~~~~~~                      T L A N   I
Z  - .. ' y lk7Par&                    Janeiro
LU      t4                                  j     I_ *   Chapec6 oIoinviie
(3}          /                                          La~(s           GerfaOisOPOJis
I({                            o             d    Santa
O                                         *f(  D Rio Grande    atarina
'>  i  )                      {~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-    Do  Paul  I
_ U                 ARGENTINA !\ A
1s     ;                                                                        PROSANEAR COMPONENT
/  \                          Cm s                           IMPLEMENTING    No OF
(3                                      LJ. tURUGU                            CmES             AGENCY       AREAS
U;                                                                      #  ~MANAUS        COSAMnA        8
0..                                                                          B   ELEM          COSANPA        4
f                               ')DOURADOS                                           SANESUL        1
,   I                                                               CAMPO GRANDE       SANESUL        2
X~~~~~~~~~~ P ORTALEZA                                                         CAGECE         5
k         _                                         ~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~CRATEUS  CAGECE  1
)                                   JJ                              QUiXADA           CAGECE         1
I                  |j   )   his mop was ponducd                    JUAZEIRO DO NORTE  CAGECE         2
S  .   T                          iz~~~~~~~~~y the Map Design Unit  RECIPE  COMPESA        2
Pherbondans  oos
{!  )   \<                        a~~~~~~~~f The ZWOd 8anik  RIO DE JANEIRO  CEDAE        33
Todh                                               and any       ANGRA DOS REIS    PMAR          22
/                    as~~~~~~~oher mnfoaond shown   LRAOOI,AA 
*_     an this nap   not
E   /   in7pl an we Part of    CiAPECO            CASAN          1
j   50         ~~500        1000  any       1$  l"an niG    OINVILLE          CASAN          2
S              AR EITN
TE                             of any  f4              LAGES             CA5AN           1
<      KILOMETERS                                      MANAco  JUiZ DE SORA  CESAMA     5
DOURADOSISokNN  19 I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AP GRND                                           SAEU 



