Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
2983
BR
(Water Project for Municipalities
and Low-Income Areas)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL-CEF
 
Dated December
30, 1988
 
LOAN NUMBER
2983
BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December
30,
1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL - CEF (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS
(A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule
2
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Project Companies (as such term is 
hereinafter defined), and Sociedade de Abastecimento de Agua e  Saneamento S.A. 
(SANASA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance the Borrower 
will make available to the Project Companies and SANASA the proceeds of the Loan as
Page  2
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Municipality of Campinas
(CAMPINAS) and (SANASA).
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
 
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings
:
(a)
"Campinas" 
means the Municipality of Campinas, State of Sao Paulo;
(b)
"Campinas Project Agreement" 
means the agreement between the Bank and
Campinas and SANASA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements  supplemental to the
Campinas Project Agreement;
(c)
"Project Companies" 
means collectively the Companhias Estaduais  de
Saneamento Basico referred to in Article
9
of Brazil's Decree No. 82.587,  of November 
6, 1978, as amended to this date, formed by the States, or by the Guarantor in the 
case of the Federal District and Territories, and entities owned or operated by
Municipalities which provide or will provide water supply and sanitation services,
which have been selected or may be selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank for the purpose of executing one or more Sub-projects in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement;
"Project Company" 
means any one of them, and when such
term is  used in reference to one State or Municipality, it shall mean the Project
Company which operates in such State or Municipality, and
"Eligible Project Company" 
means a Project Company which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule
6
to this Agreement and has been accepted by the Bank for participating in the Project;
(d)
"States" 
means collectively the federative units of the Guarantor and its
Federal District and Territories, and
"State" 
means any one of them;
(e)
"Project Sponsors" 
means collectively the States or the Municipalities in
which a Project Company is located and which are providing  financial assistance to
such Project Company for purposes of the Project,  and
"Project Sponsor" 
means any one
of them;
(f)
"WS Subproject" 
means a specific water supply or sewerage project
consisting of one or more of the following activities: (i) the construction, expansion 
or improvement of water supply or sewerage systems in the  low-income peripheral areas
of cities of more than
50,000 inhabitants; (ii)
provision of technical assistance for
the engineering, design and construction supervision of WS Subprojects and
complementary sanitary installation; and
(iii) provision of technical assistance, 
training, equipment and materials for health community promotion programs and
technical, financial and institutional development programs for Project Companies;
(g)
"SD Subproject" 
means a specific project consisting of the  construction,
expansion or improvement of complementary sanitary installations such as in-house 
sanitary installations, solid waste  collection and storm drainage in the low-income 
peripheral areas of cities of more than
50,000 inhabitants;
 
(h)
"Eligible Subproject" 
means a WS Subproject or a SD Subproject which
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule
6
to this Agreement and has been
approved by the Borrower and the Bank for financing under the Project;
Page  3
(i)
"CTF" 
means an agreement entered or to be entered into between the
Borrower and a Project Sponsor and a Project Company pursuant to Section
3.01
(b) (i) 
of this Agreement for purposes of financing the execution of an Eligible Subproject;
(j)
"Sub-loan" 
means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out
of the proceeds of the Loan and its own resources under a CTF;
(k)
"Campinas-SANASA Agreement" 
means the loan agreement to be entered into
between Campinas and SANASA pursuant to Section
2.01
(b)
of the Campinas Project
Agreement;
(l)
"SANASA Agreement" 
means the loan agreement entered into between the
Borrower, SANASA and Campinas pursuant to Section
3.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement and 
Section
2.04 (a) of the Campinas Project Agreement, for purposes of financing the 
execution of Part B of the Project;
(
m
)
"Cruzado" 
means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
(n)
"Tariff Law" 
means the Guarantor's Law No
.
6,528
dated May
11, 1978, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(o)
"OTN" 
means National Treasury Bonds
"Obrigacoes do Tesouro  Nacional", 
the transferable bonds issued by the Guarantor's Treasury;
(p)
"Special Account" 
means the account referred to in Section
2.02
(b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Financial Recuperation Plan" 
means the financial plan for each Project
Company which is not in full compliance with the tariff law referred  to in paragraph
A of Schedule
6
to this Agreement;
(r)
"IBGE" 
means Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e  Estatistica,
the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics;
(s)
"PLANASA" 
means Plano Nacional de Saneamento, a water supply and sewerage
program for Brazil, which is being carried out by the Borrower;
(t)
"FSRMM" 
means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha
Mercante-AFRMM, the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant
Marine established by Decree Law
1.142
of December
30,
1970, as amended to December 
31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the 
Bank, may substitute it, in whole or part, after January
1,
1988; and
 
(u)
"Minimum Wage" 
means Salario Minimo de Referencia, the national minimum
wage referred to in the Guarantor's Decree Law No. 2351 of August 7,
1987, published 
in Diario Oficial de Uniao on August
10,
1987, as such  minimum wage may be amended 
from time to time by the Guarantor.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars
($80,000,000).
 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement  for expenditures
made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in  respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2
to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
 
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section
2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate  per annum for each
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum above the Cost 
of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
 
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" 
means the six
-
month period commencing on each
date specified
in Section
2.06
of this Agreement, including the
Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" 
means the cost of the outstanding
borrowings of
the Bank drawn down after June
30,
1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum,
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" 
means the first six months or the second six months of
a calendar
year.
Section
2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15
and October
15
in each year.
 
Section
2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out
Part A.2 of the Project and shall provide, or  cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services  and other resources required for the Project
and shall cause the Project Companies and SANASA under the CTFs and the SANASA
Agreement, respectively, to carry out Parts A.1 and B of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and ecological public utility practices and to provide, or  cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
 
(b)
Without limitation to, and as part of, the foregoing the Borrower shall: 
(i) enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank (the CTFs) with each Project 
Company and the respective Project Sponsor, for purposes of making available as
subloans the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A.1
of the Project and the
Borrower's own resources, to finance up to
75%
of the reasonable cost of works, goods
and services utilized by the Project Company in the carrying out of an Eligible
Sub-project; and (ii) enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank (the SANASA 
Agreement)
with SANASA and Campinas for purposes of making available as a loan, the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part B of the Project and the Borrower's own
resources,  to finance up to
50%
of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services
utilized by SANASA in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(c)
Each CTF shall contain, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule
7
to this Agreement;
(d)
The Borrower shall duly perform and cause the Project Sponsors, the 
Page  5
Project Companies, SANASA and Campinas to duly perform all of their  obligations under
the CTFs and the SANASA Agreement, respectively. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the CTFs or the SANASA Agreement, or any
provision thereof.
 
Section
3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule
5
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project Companies to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Part A.1 of the Project and SANASA in respect of Part B of the Project.
 
Section
3.04. The Borrower shall, and cause the Project Sponsors and the Project 
Companies to, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of  their respective obligations under
this Agreement, the SANASA Agreement,  under the CTFs and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
 
Section
3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval the 
Subprojects to be financed under Part A.1 of the Project.
 
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Subproject shall be furnished 
to the Bank for approval after June
30,
1991.
 
Section
3.06. Not later than June 30 and December 31 each year, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request on the progress of the execution of Part A.1 of the Project.
 
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section
4.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial standards  and practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management  assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
 
Section
4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices  its financial
condition and operations in respect of the  Project,   including consolidated Project
Accounts
(the Project Accounts) reflecting  the operations, resources and expenditures 
of the Project Companies in  respect of Part A.1 of the Project and SANASA in respect 
of Part B of the Project.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the Project Accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six
months after the end of each such year
: (A) certified 
copies of its financial
statements of such year as so audited, and
(B) 
the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and
said records, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, 
separate records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause the Project Companies and SANASA to retain, until 
one year
after the Closing Date, certified copies of all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable, or cause the Project Companies and SANASA to enable, the 
Bank's
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred
to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains
a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,  the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if any event other
than those refered to in paragraphs
(c)
or
(e)
of this Section shall have occurred and
be continuing and relate only to SANASA, Campinas, or one or more of the Project
Companies or Project Sponsors, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect
of Project expenditures incurred by SANASA or the respective Project Company or
Project Companies:
 
(a)
Campinas or SANASA have failed to perform any of their obligations under 
the Campinas Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that Campinas or SANASA will be able to perform its  obligations under the Campinas
Project Agreement;
(c)
Decree No. 95.572 of December 22, 1987 of the Guarantor shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect  materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement;
(d)
any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the 
dissolution or disestablishment of SANASA or for the suspension of its operations;
(e)
the Tariff Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the financial condition of one or more
Project Companies;
(f)
any Project Sponsor or any Project Company shall have failed to perform 
any of its respective obligations under any CTF to which it is a party;
(g)
any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for  the 
dissolution or disestablishment of any Project Company or for the  suspension of its
operations and no other alternatives satisfactory to the  Bank have been established
or provided to ensure the timely execution of the respective Eligible Subproject or
the performance of the obligations set forth in the respective CTF;
(h)
the statutes of any Project Company shall have been amended so as to 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the  operations or
Page  7
financial condition of any such Project Company;
(i)
an event shall have occurred or any action shall have been taken,  which 
shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Part A.1 of  the Project by 
the Project Companies, or the financial condition or operations of, or the setting or
adjustment of rates for water supply and sewerage services charged by, any Project
Company;
(j)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that any Project Company or Project Sponsor which are parties to  any CTF
shall be able to perform its respective obligations or exercise   its respective
rights thereunder;
(k)
any action shall have been taken which shall materially and adversely 
affect the performance of any obligations of the Project Sponsor under any CTF; and
(l)
any Project Company shall have failed to carry out its Financial 
Recuperation Plan.
 
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof:
 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) or (g) of 
Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
 
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (f) or (h) or (i) or (k) or (l) 
of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section
6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
 
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered with Banco Central do 
Brasil; and
(b)
that the SANASA Agreement and the Campinas-SANASA Agreement have  been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Campinas and SANASA and Campinas and SANASA,
respectively.
Section
6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
 
(a)
that the Campinas Project Agreement and the Campinas-SANASA Agreement 
have been duly authorized or ratified by Campinas and SANASA, and are legally binding
upon Campinas and SANASA in accordance with their terms;
(b)
that the SANASA Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Campinas and SANASA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Campinas and SANASA in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered with Banco Central do 
Brasil.
 
Section
6.03. The date March 30, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
Page  8
the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11
.
03
of the General Conditions
.
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64l45 (WUI)
 
For the Borrower:
Caixa Economica Federal
Setor Bancario Sul
Quadra
4, Lote 34
CEP
70070, Brasilia, D.F.
Brasil
Telex:
 
(061) 1365
(061) 3864
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL-CEF
 
By
/s/ Jose Humberto Lordello dos Santos Souza
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to  each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
%
of
Page  9
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(other than
computers or
vehicles), works
and services
under Part A.1
of the Project
(a)
WS sub-
44,330,000     67% of the
projects                             amounts disbursed
under Sub-loans
(b)
SD sub-
5,000,000
projects
(2)
Consultants' Services
(a)
Under Part A.2 (a)
270,000      67%
of the Project
(b)
Under Part A.2 (b)
400,000     67%
of the Project
(3)
Goods
(other than
30,000,000     66% of the amounts
computers or                              disbursed by the
vehicles), works                          Borrower to SANASA
and services under
Part B of the
Project
___________
TOTAL
80,000,000
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of
:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$8,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July
1, 1987; and
 
(b)
expenditures under a Subproject unless:
 
(i)
such Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
Schedule
6
to this
Agreement and has been approved by the Borrower and
the Bank for financing
under the Project;
(ii)
the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing 
that the
Project Company and the Project Sponsor have entered
into a valid and binding
CTF with the Borrower with regard to such
Subproject; and
(iii)
in the case of a SD Subproject that such Subproject is related to 
a WS
Subproject being approved or already approved by the Bank in
respect of such
Project Company; provided, however, that no
withdrawals shall be made for
expenditures under a Subproject
until at least
3
subprojects shall have met
the requirements set forth
in this paragraph
(b).
 
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the health and environmental 
conditions of the extreme low-income population living in the peripheral areas of 
medium
-, and large-size cities, by providing water, waste water services, and in-house 
Page  10
sanitary installations, and by improving solid waste collection and by drainage;
(
b
)
to satisfy urgent demands for drinking water in the city of Campinas, including
service to low-income consumers;
(c)
to assist the Borrower in establishing an
appropriate system to finance and implement Subprojects in the peripheral urban areas
and to extend PLANASA to autonomous municipalities; and
(d)
to provide efficiency in
the utilization of financial resources by the application of appropriate Subproject
selection criteria, community involvement in the project cycle and the use of low-cost 
technologies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
 
Part A:
Improvement of water supply, sewerage and sanitation services in 
low-income urban 
areas
 
1.
(a)
Execution of Eligible Subprojects in the territories of Project Sponsors; 
and
(b)
provision of technical assistance and training to Project Companies for the
preparation and execution of Subprojects and in management, financial administration
and water and sewerage systems operation and maintenance.
 
2.
(a)
A program of studies aimed at developing: (i) 
methodologies to lead
integrated sanitation projects in low-income urban areas; and (ii) appropriate 
low-cost water and waste disposal technologies for low-income urban areas;
 
(b)
A technical assistance program to improve the Borrower's capabilities to 
evaluate and supervise sanitation projects.
 
Part B:
Improvements to the City of Campinas' Water Supply System
 
A program to improve and expand the existing water supply system including: (i) 
the construction of a
2.4
cubic meters per second water treatment plant;
(ii) the 
provision and installation of seven large pipelines with a total extension of
29
kilometers;
(iii) the construction of six water reservoirs with a total capacity of 
28,600 cubic meters; and (iv) a program for reduction of unaccounted-for-water, 
including the installation of production and consumption metering, water distribution
system survey and mapping, a water leak control program, and the improvement of
SANASA's commercial system.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31,
1993.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April
15
and October
15
beginning October
15, 1993
through  April
15, 2003
$4,000,000
Page  11
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section
3.O4 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a 
percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
 
Not more than three years
.20
before maturity
More than three years but
.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
.73
not more than
11
years
before maturity
More than
11
years but not
.87
more than
13
years
before maturity
More than
13
years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE
4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" 
means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" 
means expenditures in respect of the
Page  12
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" 
means an amount equivalent to
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule.
 
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
 
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph
3
(b)
of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
 
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the
following situations first arises:
 
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories,
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02
of the
General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account
(i)
was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule, or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit
into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.
No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
Page  13
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
SCHEDULE
5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
2.
To the extent technically possible, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be 
grouped in lots of not less than $500,000 equivalent.
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs
1
through
4
of Appendix
2
thereto, provided, however, that:
 
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
 
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
 
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such
goods contain
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least
50%
of
the value of the complete goods.
 
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
 
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or
(B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods; and
(ii)
to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph
3
above, shall be
Page  14
selected for the award
.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 and contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$250,000, may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for civil works to be procured as provided in Part A and Part C of this
Schedule and to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or more and each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2
(d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3
and
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph
3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of Schedule
4
to the Loan Agreement.
 
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Campinas Project Agreement.
 
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
 
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, the Project Companies and SANASA in the
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Companies
and SANASA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
 
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term
"customs duties and
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM. 
SCHEDULE
6
Eligibility Criteria
A.
Project Companies must meet the following criteria to be allowed to participate 
in the execution of Part A.1 of the Project.
 
Provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower: (i) that they either 
(A) are in full compliance with the provisions of the Tariff Law, or (B) have formally 
approved a financial recuperation plan, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower,
which will result in full compliance by the Project Company with the provisions of the
Tariff Law not later than December
31, 1989; and (ii) that they have established 
Page  15
adequate separate records and accounts for purposes of the Project and have made
arrangements to have such records and accounts and their financial statements audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
 
B.
Specific water supply, sewerage and sanitation projects must meet the following 
criteria in order to be approved as Eligible Sub-projects under Part B of the Project:
 
The Borrower must furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that:
 
(i)
WS Subprojects are located in peripheral areas of cities with a 
population of
more than
50,0000
inhabitants according to the last
available official census
carried out by IBGE in
1980;
 
(ii)
at least 40% of the families to be served by the proposed 
sub-projects have an 
income equivalent to one minimum wage, in 
force in the area, or less;
(iii)
the proposed Sub-project constitutes the least cost technical 
solution for
providing water, sewerage, sanitation or drainage
services;
(iv)
the estimated cost per capita of the proposed Sub-project is less 
than the
equivalent of
12
OTN in the case of water and
17
OTN
in the case of sewerage
services; and
(v)
the final beneficiaries of the proposed Subproject are able to pay 
the water
and sewerage services to be provided in accordance with the
Project Company's
current rates.
 
SCHEDULE
7
Obligations of the Project Sponsors
and Project Companies under CTFs
A.
Obligations of the Project Sponsors
 
(1)
Each Project Sponsor shall covenant and warrant the Eligible Subprojects to be 
carried out under the Project in such State or Municipality of paramount importance to
its economic development and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will
fully support the implementation of the Project by cooperating with the respective
Project Company in the execution of such Eligible Sub-projects by providing, promptly 
as needed, the funds
(additional to the proceeds of the CTF), facilities, services and 
other resources on its part required to enable such company to carry out the Eligible
Subprojects and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and services
included in such Eligible Subprojects.
 
(2)
Each Project Sponsor shall take, or cause its agencies and instrumentalities to 
take, all such action as shall be required to assist the Project Company in the
performance of the obligations of such Project Company set forth in this Schedule.
 
B.
Obligations of the Project Companies
 
(1)
The Project Companies shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
ecological and public utility practices.
 
(2)
In order to assist in the carrying out of Eligible Sub-projects under Part A.1 
of the Project, each Project Company shall, when required, employ qualified and
experienced consultants, such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as provided in Schedule
5
to the Loan
Agreement; the terms and conditions of each contract with any such consultants, which
is to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be satisfactory to the Bank
and the Borrower.
 
(3)
(a)
Each Project Company shall, with respect to the Part of the Project to be 
carried out by each such Project Company, undertake to insure, or make adequate
Page  16
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Project Company to replace or
repair such goods.
 
(b)
Except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, each Project Company shall 
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for Eligible Sub-projects being carried out by each such Project Company.
 
(4)
(a)
With respect to each Eligible Subproject being carried out by each 
Project Company, each such Project Company shall urnish to the Borrower and, if so
requested, make available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for each such Eligible Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto.
(b)
Each Project Company shall, with respect to each Eligible Subproject 
being carried out by each such Project Company, maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of each such Eligible Subproject
(including the cost and the benefits to be derived from each such Eligible 
Subproject), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and to disclose their use in each Eligible Subproject.
 
(c)
Each Project Company shall enable the authorized representatives of the 
Bank and the Borrower to visit the facilities and construction sites included in each
Eligible Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents in respect of each Eligible Subproject.
 
(5)
Each Project Company shall furnish to the Borrower, two months after each 
semester, a progress report containing all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request through the Borrower concerning each Eligible Subproject carried
out or being carried out by it, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and
results to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, and the monitoring indicators.
 
(6)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Bank and the Borrower, each Project Company shall prepare a report
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower on the execution of the Part of the Project
carried out by each Project Company.
 
(7)
Each Project Company shall maintain a system of monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
 
(8)
Each Project Company shall select each Subproject being furnished to the 
Borrower for approval in a manner consistent with the criteria set forth in Schedule
6
to this Agreement and shall ensure that such criteria are being consistently applied
by each such Project Company in the carrying out of each Eligible Subproject which
each such Project Company is carrying out under the Project.
 
(9)
Each Project Company shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its 
financial position, plan its future expansion and conduct its business and
undertaking, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate and competent staff.
 
(10)
Each Project Company shall: (a) at all times take necessary steps to maintain 
its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and retain all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for the
purpose of complying with its obligations under this Schedule or for the efficient
conduct of its business and undertaking;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property owned or operated by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility
practices; and
Page  17
(c)
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the property or 
assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or disposition would
materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the Project
.
(11)
Each Project Company shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and the 
Borrower for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with sound public utility practices.
 
(12)
Each Project Company shall maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with appropriate accounting practices consistently applied, its operations and
financial condition.
 
(13)
Each Project Company shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) furnish 
through the Borrower to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
five months after the end of each such year,
(A)
certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited, and
(B)
the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, which report shall include a statement of compliance during each such year
by each Project Company of the financial covenants contained in this Schedule; and
(iii) furnish through the Borrower to the Bank such other information concerning the 
accounts and financial statements of each such Project Company and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
 
(14)
Each Project Company shall take all such action (including timely action with 
respect to the filing of appropriate applications and with respect to the setting or
adjustment of each Project Company's rates for  its water supply and sewerage
services)
as shall be necessary in each calendar year for each Project Company's
revenues from such services, together with all other operating revenues of each
Project Company, to reach not less than the sum of each Project Company's operating
costs, depreciation charges and debt service, in accordance with the provisions of the
Tariff Law.
 
(15)
Each Project Company shall procure the goods and civil works required for 
Eligible Subprojects to be carried out in the Project State of such Project Company in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5
to the Loan Agreement.
 
(16)
The Borrower shall have the right to suspend disbursements under any or all CTFs 
made to a Project Company if such Project Company fails to comply with any of its
obligations under a CTF.
