Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2983 BR
(Water Project for Municipalities
and Low-Income Areas)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF CAMPINAS
and
SOCIEDADE DE ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA
E SANEAMENTO S.A.
Dated December 30, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2983 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR   
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF CAMPINAS (CAMPINAS) and 
SOCIEDADE DE ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA E SANEAMENTO S.A. (SANASA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Caixa Economica 
Federal-CEF (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to  make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent   to eighty million dollars 
($80,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that, inter alia, CAMPINAS and SANASA agree to undertake such obligations 
Page  2
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SANASA 
and CAMPINAS, as guarantor, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement for the execution of Part B of the Project will be made available to SANASA 
on the terms and conditions set forth in said  agreement, (the SANASA Agreement); and
WHEREAS CAMPINAS and SANASA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CAMPINAS and SANASA declare their commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
SANASA shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility, 
sanitation and ecological practices,
and CAMPINAS and SANASA shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to, and as part of the foregoing, CAMPINAS shall make 
a loan for purposes of Part B of the Project, in an amount equivalent to not less than 
twenty-seven million two hundred forty thousand dollars ($27,240,000) under a loan 
agreement to be entered into between CAMPINAS and SANASA (the CAMPINAS-SANASA 
Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. SANASA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) CAMPINAS and SANASA shall enter into the SANASA Agreement, 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
CAMPINAS and SANASA shall duly perform all their respective obligations 
under the SANASA Agreement and the CAMPINAS-SANASA Agreement. Except as the Bank and 
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, CAMPINAS or SANASA shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
SANASA Agreement or the CAMPINAS-SANASA Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CAMPINAS and SANASA shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of their obligations under this Agreement and under the SANASA Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and 
(b)
CAMPINAS and SANASA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CAMPINAS or SANASA 
Page  3
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the SANASA Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SANASA
Section 3.01. SANASA shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, sanitation and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SANASA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. SANASA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SANASA shall maintain procedures and separate records and 
accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part B of the  project 
(including its costs and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SANASA shall:
 
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
and its 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, SANASA shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, certified copies of all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
Page  4
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SANASA shall produce 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on 1987, total revenues 
equivalent to not less than the sum of its (i) total  operating expenses; (ii) the 
amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; (iii) 
dividends; (iv) working  capital increases as a result of the execution of Part B of 
the Project; (v) at least 20% of expenditures incurred and expected to be incurrred 
under Part B of the Project during such year; and (vi) 100% of expenditures in the
expansion of the water distribution network associated with the execution of Part B of 
the Project.
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, SANASA shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by SANASA and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in  respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SANASA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SANASA's fiscal years covered by such review, SANASA shall 
take all necessary measures (including, inter alia, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirement.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
 
            (ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
           (iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
             (A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
                    (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
            (iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 4.4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of SANASA's 
fixed assets in operation, 
or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but 
excluding interest 
and other charges on debt.
             (v)
The average current gross value of SANASA's fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value 
of SANASA's fixed assets 
in operation at the beginning and at the end 
of the fiscal year, as valued 
from time to time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods 
of valuation 
satisfactory to the Bank.
            (vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
           (vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  5
Section 4.03. (a) Unless the Bank and the Borrower otherwise agree, SANASA shall 
not incur any long-term debt if after the incurrence of such debt the aggregate of all 
outstanding long-term debt incurred by SANASA outstanding (excluding the Loan) shall 
be equivalent to $5,000,000 or more.
(b)
For purposes of this Section: (i) "long-term debt" means any debt 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it was originally 
incurred; and (ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under  a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CAMPINAS and 
SANASA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall  promptly notify CAMPINAS 
and SANASA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or  
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For CAMPINAS:
Prefeitura Municipal de Campinas
Av. Anchieta 200
Campinas - SP CEP 13100
Sao Paulo
Brazil
Telex:
Page  6
0191157
For SANASA:
Sociedade de Abastecimento de Agua
   e Saneamento, S.A.
Rua Regente Feijo, 859
Campinas, SP CEP 13015
Sao Paulo, Brazil
Telex:
0191157
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of CAMPINAS may be 
taken or executed by the Major of Campinas or such other  person or persons as the 
Major of Campinas shall designate in writing, and CAMPINAS shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SANASA, may be 
taken or executed by the President of SANASA or  such other person or persons as the 
President of SANASA shall designate in writing, and SANASA shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of  authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
MUNICIPALITY OF CAMPINAS
By /s/ Cesare Manfredi
Authorized Representative
SOCIEDADE DE ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA E
   SANEAMENTO S.A.
By /s/ Cesare Manfredi
Authorized Representative
Page  7
