Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5467-ROY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 7, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may itot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    Yemeni Rial (YR1) 12
YR1 1.00   US$0.08
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COE    -   College of Education
FOE    -    Faculty of Education
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP    -   Gross National Product
IDA    -    International Development Association
IFC    -    International Finance Corporation
IMF    -    International Monetary Fund
ITI    -    Inservice Training Institute
MIGA   -   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE    -   Ministry of Education
MTFP   -   Medium-term Economic Framework Paper
OECD   -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ROY    -   Republic of Yemen
SAF    -    Structural Adjustment Facility
TOR    -   Terms of Reference
UN     -   United Nations
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development
WID    -   Women in Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Government of the Republic of Yemen
Beneficiaries:                 Ministry of Education
Universities of Sana'a and Aden
Credit Amount:                 SDR 13.5 million (US$19.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard IDA (40 years)
Financing Plan:                IDA                US$19.4 million
OPEC Fund              9.3 million (unconfirmed)
Government             6.4 million
Total             USS35.1 million
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff ARgraisal Regort:        Report No. 9299-ROY dated March 7, 1991
This document has a restric.ted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (ROY)
FOR A SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
1.          The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Yemen in the amount of SDR 13.5 million
(US$19.4 million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit-
would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance a
Secondary Teacher Training Project. The OPEC Fund would provide US$9.3
million in additional financing and the Government of ROY would contribute the
remaining US$6.4 million equivalent of the project cost.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.           Introduction.  The Republic of femen (Yemen) was formed on May 22,
1990, unifying the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The unification occurred six months ahead of
schedule. A transition period through 1991 was envisaged to complete the
institutional mergers; it will now be extended to 1992. The preparation of a
common development plan has slipped due to the Gulf crisis and is now
scheduled for 1992. Also due to the Gulf crisis, planned IDA missions for a
Medium-Term Economic Framework Paper (MTFP) and a Country Implementation
Review (CIR) have been delayed a few months. The strategy statement below has
been prepared without the benefit of these discussions. IDA strategy is based
on past economic and sector dialogue with YAR and PDRY and will need to be
confL:-..d when strategies are formulated for the unified country later in 1991
(MTFP) and 1992 (development plan). The unified country faces challenges and
has the potential to meet them. Time, however, is needed to consolidate the
unification process. The recent Gulf crisis has made this process even more
difficult than anticipated.
A. THE ECONOMY
3.          Background.  The unification of YAR and PDRY brought together two
markedly different economies. The economy of YAR, was based largely on market
principles, and that of PDRY, based .n centralized planning. The combined
population of North and South Yemen was estimated in 1989 at over 11 million;
the GNP per capita, at US$640. This seemingly high GNP per capita, however,
is tempered somewhat by other social indicators usually associated with a
lower level of income: a life expectancy of 50 years, a primary school
enrollment rate of 67 percent, and an adult literacy rate of 20 percent.
These indicators reflect, to a great extent, Yemen's limited resource
endowment and late start at modern development. Both YAR and PDRY were
designated by the UN as least developed countries.
4.          Until the discoveries and exploitation of oil in the last four
years (oil production is estimated at 180,000 bpd), Yemen depended heavily on;



- 2 -
traditional agriculture, which was constrained by shortages of arable land and
water. Industry was poorly developed. A large number of Yemenis, mainly
unskilled, depended on employment in neighboring oil-exporting countries.
Workers' remittances have been the main source of foreign exchange since the
mid-1970s. Unification has created a greater potential for long-term
development than if the two countries had remained separate. ROY has modest
oil reserves (estimated at 600-900 million barrels) and substantial gas
reserves (estimated at 7 trillion cubic feet), with good prospects for
additional discoveries; under-exploited fisheries resources; some tourism
potential; and a dynamic, if bureaucratically encumbered, private sector.
With the recent elimination of controls on prices, production, etc.,
particularly in the southern part, the economy is expected to profit from
increased participation and dynamism of the private sector. An enlarged
market offers greater potential gains from economies of scale. Unification
has also eliminated the contested areas around the old border and allowed for
faster exploration of oil and gas in the promising area between the two major
oil fields of Marib and Shabwa. In the immediate future, however, prospects
for exploiting this potential are clouded by macroeconomic imbalances and
instability (see para. 5) and by the Government's tendency to over-regulate.
5.          Recent Developments.  Prior to unification, both YAR and PDRY
experienced a prolonged period of high domestic demand far in excess of
domestic output, as indicated by negative domestic savings (Table 1). Both
countries depended heavily on workers' remittances and external assistance to
close the large resource gaps. Government finances contributed significantly
to the excess demand, as the budget deficits were persistently large,
averaging almost 17 percent of GDP in YAR and 40 percent in PDRY during 1985-
89. A large part of the deficit, especially in YAR (64 percent), was financed
by borrowing from the central bank, creating inflationary pressures.'
Reflecting the excessive demand, the balance of payments current accounts
showed large deficits, averaging over 11 percent of GDP during 1985-89 for YAR
and about 28 percent for PDRY. These were financed largely by grants and
concessional loans. Despite the soft terms of most external borrowing,
external debt service became increasingly burdensome. As a result, both YAR
and PDRY resorted to repeated rescheduling of part of the debt. Furthermore,
in 1988, YAR first resorted to short-term borrowing, which had reached almost
US$900 million by the end of 1989. The present combined debt amounts to about
US$5.5 billion, or some 73 percent of the combined GDP. The debt service
ratio is estimated at 27 percent.
6.          Transition to Full Unification.  Since unification in May 1990,
the Government has been engaging in the difficult task of merging the two
government administrations. It has decided that a transition period, until
end-1992, will be allowed before all institutions are completely integrated.
Although a substantial part of this merging has been completed, the decision-
making process and administrative functions are still not operating smoothly.
This has adversely affected the timely adoption and implementation of the
policies needed to address economic issues. Work on unifying the monetary and
financial systems, customs and tariffs, and public finances has been largely
completed. Much less progress, however, has been achieved in rationalizing
public sector enterprises, which played a relatively larger role in the
economy of PDRY. The Government expects to address the issue of redundancy,
/     Due to prke controls. inflation rates in PDRY were low. Such controls, howe-er, created general shotages throughout the countfy.



-3-
both in public administration and in public sector enterprises before the end
of the transition period.
TdjJJ: SELECTED INDICATORS, 1985.89
YAR                      PRY
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1985    1986    1987    1988  1989
Dosestic savings (Z of CDP)  -12.9  -8.5    -15.1  .0.6  5.9    -28.2   '21.4    .15.8   -22.7  -12.3
National savings (1 of CDP)  5.1  6.6  1.6  3.3  8.5    11.6  9.3    14.0  3.5  4.9
Budget deficit (S of CDP)  -18.4   -15.2   -23.8   -16.8  -9.2   -37.3   .41.4   -30.9   .43.7  -45.3
Financed by Central Bank (Z)  72.4    58.0    64.0    61.7    62.4    60.0    58.3    37.3    43.6  34.8
Consumer price index increase (%)La 27.4    29.4    21.7    16.4    20.0  5.1  0.9  2.5  0.3  1.6
Current account balance (S of CDP)  -9.9  .8.9   -15.6   -14.3    -7.5   -22.9   .21.1   .16.5   -38.3    -40.5
Workers remittances (USS million)a 809  669  762  343  344  426  293  304  254  161
External debt DOD (US1$ mllion)  2032    2366    2636    3034    3324    1418    1583    1805    1838  2177
Medium/long term     1842  2109  2294  2466  2445  1418  1583  1605  1838  2177
Short-term            191  257  342  570  879         -    -     -
As I of GDP           477    59.4    61.8    55.1    49.1   127.9   161.0   165.4   164.5    207.2
La Prices in PDRY were controlled.
A Tranaitcted through official channels only.
7.         The transition has entailed additional expenses.  Many civil
servants are being relocated, requiring money for moving and housing. Large
expenses are also being incurred to raise the pay of the former public sector
employees of PDRY in order to equal the salaries of former YAR employees.
These expenses further exacerbate budget deficits that are already in urgent
need of reduction.
8.         The Impact of the Gulf Crisis.  The already difficult economic
situation has been further aggravated by the Gulf Crisis. Since August 1990,
about three quarters of a million Yemenis have returned from their places of
employment in the Gulf countries. These are mostly workers whose remittances
had been instrumental in the country's development for over a decade and a
half. The resulting reduction in remittances (including estimates of those
coming through unofficial channels), now estimated at US$1.2 billion per year
(about 75 percent of total remittances), has severely affected the Yemeni
economy. Besides workers' remittances, Yemen also has lost earnings from
trade and service arrangements with regional countries involved in the
conflict. These include such items as transportation, contracting, and oil
refinery fees estimated at close to US$400 million annually. The crisis also
adversely affected tourism, which grosses about US$45 million per year. With
traditional donors preoccupied with their own domestic problems, their
assistance to Yemen, both in terms of grants and concessional loans, is
expected to drop substantially. As a result, Yemen has to cut imports by some
25 percent, adversely affecting consumption, investment and prospects for
future development. The returning migrants have exacerbated the unemploymen.
and underemployment problems that have already been on the rise due to slow
economic growth and the large numbers of school leavers entering the labor
force each year. Without the returning migrants, unemployment is estimated at
over 400,000. With the prospective redundancy in the civil service and in



- 4 -
public sector enterprises, unemployment, which is expected to reach 25 percent
of the labor force by 1992, will be one of the most pressing problems for the
coulll; ry.
9,           Goverunment Response.  The Government has taken a number of
measures in recent months to alleviate the economic difficulties.  It has
liberalized the foreign exchange market, essentially abolishing trade and
foreign exchange controls and allowing the private exchange market to operate
freely. Only importers of four basic goods--wheat and wheat flour, rice,
sugar and medicine (including baby formula)--can get foreign exchange from the
central bank at the official exchange rate; everyone else must resort to
private markets where floating rates reflect current supply and demand.2
Furthermore, in order to raise additional revenues, the Government doubled
gasoline prices and raised the price of diesel by 50 percent.
Short-term Outlook and Need for Stabilization
10.          Risk of Stagnation.  The severe macroeconomic imbalances and
instability are expected to continue unless adequate stabilization measures
are put in place soon. While the liberalization of the exchange market will
limit imports to the level of foreign exchange availability, and thus reduce
the external imbalance to a manageable size, the same thing cannot be said
regarding public finances. Although recent measures are expected to increase
revenues and create some savings, they are not enough to reduce the budget
deficit (estimated at 17 percent of GDP in 1990) to the sustainable level of
3-5 percent of GDP.  Because external assistance is expected to be relatively
small,3 due partly to the Gulf crisis and partly to economic difficulties in
the traditional donor countries (USSR and Eastern Europe), most of the deficit
would be financed by money creation. As a result, intense inflationary
pressures will continue. At the same time, with reduced external resources,
both from aid and from workers' remittances, and perhaps less revenue from oil
exports (due to the recent fluctuations of the price of oil), prospects for
economic growth in the near future would look rather bleak without the
implementation of adequate reforms.
11.          Stabilization Measures.  Clearly, the policy focus in this
situation should be to reduce the budget and current account deficits to
manageable levels. Simultaneously, there is an urgent need for donors to
provide adequate external resources at highly concessional terms to cushion
the contractionary impact. In the present circumstances, such a stabilization
program would need to contain the following elements. First, the
liberalization of trade and of the exchange rate needs to go one step further
by allowing market forces to guide the setting of the official exchange rate
for use in all transactions. Such liberalization would not only help reduce
economic distortions but also substantially increase government revenues, in
local currency terms, and thus reduce the budget deficit. Second, additional
budget revenues need to be raised. These may come from changing most of the
tax and tariff structures from specific to ad valorem; a temporary import
surcharge; and higher excises on such items as oat, petroleum products,
2/    The free market rate was about Yrls 18/US$ in December t990. compared to the official rate of Yrts 12/US$
3/    Disbursements from loans in the pipeline are estimated dt $430 milison In 1991. Scheduled amortIzatlon, on the other hand, Is about
$570 million Net Inflows will therefore, be negative unless some rescheduling Is taking place As In the pasl few year, Yemen Is
expected to continue debt rescheduling with the USSR, as a resut,. a small positive Inflow could be achieved.



tobacco, soft drinks, mineral water and entertainment. Third, some
expenditure items may need to be eliminated, reduced, frozen, or curtailed.
For example, unclassified transfers should be eliminated; capital transfers
should be reduced; wages and expenditures on materials, services and defense
should be frozen. In addition, most other items should be curtailed after the
initial stabilization period. Adopting such a reform program would negatively
affect the welfare of the relatively poor. A well-designed set of safety net
measures, however, can be concurrently implemented to mitigate the effects Oi
this group.
Longer-term Develooment StrateEv and Prospects
12.         Key Objectives.   Long-term development prospects are reasonably
good (para. 13), provided measures such as those outlined above are
implemented to stabilize the economy in the immediate future. As discussed
earlier, while the country's resource endowment remains relatively limited,
unification does offer better prospects for growth. During the period of
transition, which will last until end-1992, the Government will be preparing
the first development plan for the unified economy. The development plan
needs to take into consideration the following two factors: (i) Yemen has a
large, currently underemployed, fast growing unskilled labor force; and (ii)
the country cannot hope to be self-sufficient in most goods, even at high
costs, with it's limited resource base. The development strategy, therefore,
will have to find a way to absorb the fast-growing labor force, as well as
earn sufficient foreign exchange to pay for necessary imports.
1I3.        Development Potential.  As regards sources of growth, employment
and foreign exchange, it is envisaged that the following sectors, which have
the necessary potential, would be playing key roles: The oil sector will
continue to be the most important foreign exchange earner. Whether the l1vel
of output will increase or last far beyond this decade depends on additional
discoveries, which are being pursued. Even without substantial addit'onal
reserves, if managed prudently, oil exports, which will last some 10-14 years
at present extraction rates, will help the country bay some time until other
sources of foreign exchange are developed. Gas reserves also offer excellent
prospects, at least for meeting internal energy needs and allowing the export
of oil products that are now consumed for power generation. This sector,
however, will not be absorbing much labor. Despite limited arable land and
water, agriculture offers some potential for additional employment and
earning/saving foreign exchange. Fruits and vegetables, being largely labor-
intensive and high-valued, would appear to be the most promising crops.
Growth in this sector would require much more efficient use of production
factors. A large fishery resource remains under-exploited. With a much
larger domestic market, additional harvests can be made on species that are
normally destined for domestic consumption. As witnessed by the interest of
EEC in this subsector, the harvest of export species can also be increased.
All in all, fisheries can be considered aaother important source of employment
and foreign exchange earnings.
14.         So far, manufacturing has played a rather minor role in the
development of both YAR and PDRY. With a relatively large, underemployed,
fast-growing unskilled labor force, Yemen needs to vitalize this sector as a
source of growth, employment, and foreign exchange. Labor-intensive export
industries would seem to offer the greatest potential. However, the absence
of coherent sectoral policies as well as a functioning financial sector is



- 6 -
hindering the entry of new entrepreneurs. Services, being mainly labor-
Intensive, would seem to have some potential for greater contribution.
Tourism has been developed very little, compared to its potential. It would
seem to offer an additional source of growth, employment and foreign exchange.
The Government is also planning to revitalize the Port of Aden and make its
surrounding areas a free-trade zone. While this seems orima facie to be a
good idea, a decision to undertake the necessary investments should only be
made following a careful economic and financial analysis. IDA has already
offered assistance towards this end. Migration since the mid-1970s, and until
late last year, was the single most important source of foreign exchange.
Although it is difficult to predict how the present regional events will play
out, on the basis that the Gulf countries will continue to need expatriate
labor, some Yemenis may be able to return to their former places of employment
or find new opportunities and resume sending remittances home.
15.         Poverty Alleviation.  As mentioned above, both parts of Yemen were
UN-designated least developed countries. Although data on absolute poverty
remains scarce, limited available social indicators seem to show widespread
problems related to poverty. The infant mortality rate in Yemen, for example,
is almost double the average of the lower middle-income countries. The
primary school enrollment rate is well below that of countries at a similar
development stage. The Government has made considerable efforts in the past
two decades to improve the situation, through investments in basic social
services such as health and education as well as in sectors providing sources
of employment and income for the relatively poor. During 1989, health and
education current expenditures amounted to one third of the total public
sector expenditures. Health and education investments have amounted to 13-15
percent of public investment in recent years. Considerable resources have
also gone to agriculture, which is the most important sector in terms of
providing employment and food. Furthermore, substantial investment has been
made in rural infrastructure, such as roads and electricity, providing ready
access to markets for the majority of the rural poor. IDA has actively
participated in this endeavor, both in lending operations and in technical
advice.
Sectoral Challenges and Constraints
16.         Until the recent liberalization in the foreign exchange regime,
restrictions on foreign exchange prevented the procurement of agricultural
production inputs like fertilizers, chemicals and machinery spare parts, which
seriously limited the ability to achieve optimum levels of agricultural
productivity. Remaining problems include the constriction in the recruitment
of trained personnel, limited field operations and the lack of operating
funds; the diverse control over water management; the low priority assigned to
monitoring and supervising agricultural development; and bureaucratic
inefficiencies. The reorganized structure of the Ministry, with four layers
of decision-makers and numerous general departments, exacerbates the
institutional weaknesses. The Government needs to establish better budgeting
of recurrent expenditures. In industry, the fiscal and external imbalances
and rising inflation due to rising public deficits and overvalued currencies
have led to a deterioration of the competitiveness and performance of the
industrial and financial sectors. Measures are required to introduce more
flexibility in the interest rate structure and adjust it to positive real
levels or market-clearing rates; in addition, the Industrial Bank of Yemen
(IBY), the country's primary institutional source of industrial term finance,



. 7 -
needs to be restructured. Over time, measures need to be developed and
implemented to broaden financial activities and instruments, strengthen
competition in the banking sector and improve financial disclosure and
enforcement mechanisms. The unification of Yemen has also interposed other
challenges, such as the need to manage the reform of the public enterprises in
the South in order to compete with the private enterprises in the North; many
will need to be either privatized or closed down in the absence of major
enterprise reforms.
17.         In the power sector, as in most public utilities, there is a need
for (i) pricing reform, of both input prices and electricity tariffs; (ii) an
efficient rural electrification strategy; and (iii) measures to address the
organizational and financial weaknesses of the power utilities. Yemen has a
limited availability of water and a high population growth, especially in the
urban areas. The water and sewerage sector also has to counter the added
problem of strong tribal proprietary rights regarding natural resources,
particularly water. Despite recent improvements in the health sector, the
following constraints hamper the nationwide expansion of health programs:
weaknesses in the regional administrative infrastructure; limited managerial
and operational capabilities and support services; and acute shortages of
health personnel, especially nurses and midwives, due to the lack of regional
training institutions and the limited number of females enrolled in higher
education.
B. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
18.         IDA's economic and sector work, and its lending program, are
designed to address pressing short-term problems, as well as promote a stable,
longer-term growth strategy. In the wake of unification, IDA's focus should
be on merging the centrally planned economy of the South and the market-
oriented economy of the North. Consequently, institutional and policy issues
would receive special attention.
19.         Past Lending.  IDA's assistance to Yemen has been directed to
Aeveloping the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure that are
the main prerequisites for Yemen's development. IDA lending is also aimed at
increasing production and income, especially in agriculture, and at supporting
the Government in its programs to combat poverty and meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. As of December 31, 1990, IDA has made 91 credits to Yemen
for a total of about US$849 million, net of cancellations. Of this total,
about 30 percent has assisted the agriculture and fisheries sector; about 20
percent has been given to the transport sector; and about 15 percent each has
been given to the human resources, water supply and energy sectors. In the
remote areas, such as the Marib and Beihan valleys, where population is
isclated and incomes are low, the combined developmental impact of penetration
roads, agricultural development, education and health projects has been
significant in improving living standards. Recent projects, such as the
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project and the Multimode Transport
Project, which are now entering initial implementation stages, and the
proposed Secondary Teacher Training Project, will further improve living
standards.



- 8 -
20.         Through its own efforts and assistance from IDA and other donors,
Yemen has made progress in all of the above-mentioned sectors (particularly in
education, infrastructure and agriculture) in a relatively short time. During
the last decade, school enrollment has increased rapidly, the country has
improved its highway network and maintenance capabilities, and raised and
diversified its agricultural production. Since the unification, efforts have
been increased to convert the economy of the South to a market economy,
particularly, in the agricultural sector. However, much more needs to be done
in every sector in terms of investment and policy, because of Yemen's late
start in development, its fast growing population and unemployment rate, and
its fragile resources (water, soil and wood biomass). The discovery of
petroleum in modest amounts has been helpful, but the Government realizes that
this additional resource alone will not solve Yemen's basic development
problems.
21.         In the second half of the 1980s, the Governments of both YAR and
PDRY have been relatively slow in adjusting their macroeconomic and sectoral
policies, as well as improving their administrative capabilities, to reflect
rapidly changing economic and social structures. Major economic shifts, such
as declining labor remittances, were addressed with administrative controls,
thus further aggravating the problems. Foreign exchange allocation and
licensing procedures were among those that constrained private initiative the
most. The recent decision of the Yemen Government to allow, once again, the
purchase of foreign exchange in the free market is a very important step in
the right direction. This will encourage private enterprise; however, other
policy measures need to follow. For example, an investment law has been
waiting at the parliament for a very long time; its promulgation would benefit
the Yemeni economy by helping create jobs. During recent years, a disturbing
decline in Yemen's ability to use external assistance has occurred. Project
implementation (also planning and preparation) has slowed down in many sectors
due to deteriorating economic conditions, as well as policy, pln-ning and
administrative constraints. As a result, IDA disbursements have shown a
decreasing trend. In FY89 annual disbursements were about US$48 million; in
FY90, US$35 million; and in the first half of FY91 (following the early stages
of the Gulf crisis), about US$15 million out of an undisbursed account of
US$353 million. It is expected that disbursements will accelerate in the
second half of FY9' and throughout FY92 as unification issues subside.
However, to bring disbursements up to truly satisfactory levels, the
Government will need to revise economic policies (para. 11) and address a
number of administrative problems (para. 22). The FY89 Institutional
Development for Public Administration Project, as well as many technical
assistance projects in the sectors and similar components in projects, was
designed to improve administrative capacity.
22.         There are many reasons for the poor implementation and
disbursement performance over the last few years. Among these, the most
prominent general constraints are: prolonged ratification of credit
agreements (on average one year); a cumbersome and over-centralized structure
for evaluating bids (6-9 months); licensing and the lengthy customs clearance
of project-related goods; and poor budgeting procedures and provisions for
counterpart funds. These obstacles conspire to generate exceptionally long
delays in the early stages of implementation. Most of these bottlenecks could
be alleviated through better organization, and the expedient implementation of
technical assistance projects/components. Improvements in these specific
cunstraints would vield quick results. IDA has addressed these issues under



its supervision work and through Country Implementation Reviews (CIRs). The
Government's response has been positive during the reviews. However, the
authorities will need to move faster in adopting the agreed remedial measures.
The next CIR is scheduled for mid-1991, While IDA would prefer further
progress on implementation issues, it is aware that ttie problems arising from
unification and the Gulf crisis are formidable and that the new political and
alministrative structures will not be fully settled until the end of this
year. The Gulf crisis, in particular, has created problems in cofinancing
arrangements and has delayed the deployment of consultants.
IDA Lending Objectives
23.         Thanks to its known oil reserves, Yemen will enjoy the benefit of
modest oil revenues for the rest of this century. The Government's declared
policy is to use this opportunity wisely, i.e., to diversify the economy and
increase its external orientation in preparation for the post-hydrocarbon era.
Bank Group assistance strategy is formulated to support this objective. IDA
long-term objectives continue to be (i) the development and sound
management/conservation of human, agriculture (in particular soil, wood
biomass and fisheries), and water resources; (ii) the lessening of emerging
structural unemployment, essentially by encouraging private economic
initiative, diversifying the economy and supporting labor-intensive
investments; and (iii) the development of a diversified export capability. In
programming its lending to attain these objectives, IDA faces certain
constraints. The objectives in (ii) and (iii) cannot be actively pursued
because macroeconomic and financial sector policies need to be further
improved for them to support industry and private initiative. In audition,
the Government has not yet developed an energy sector policy nor definite
plans for developing its considerable natural gas resources. Pending
improvements in these constraints, the IDA lending program over the next few
years is focused on the objectives outlined in (i) above. Education, training
and health projects will support the human resources objectives; agricultural
projects will address resource development as well as good management and
conservation; both agricultural and urban sector projects will stress water
resource management. On a different front, considering the economic
circumstances in Yemen, IDA lending for macro and sector policy adjustment is
warranted and, indeed, promising. An arrangement with the IMF would also help
Yemen resc --dule its debt. However, Yemen's policy dialogue with IDA and IMF,
while showing progress, has not reached the stage where such operations are
possible.
24.         In order to implement the longer-term strategy, IDA wil' continue
to encourage (i) more of the urgently needed macroeconomic policy adjustments;
(ii) policy improvements in the sectors; (iii) measures to streamline project
implementation; and (iv) cofinancing and close coordination with UNDP and
other donors. Undoubtedly, the most important contribution IDA can make to
Yemen's development effort in the immediate future is to help the new
Government develop and implement a stabilization cum growth program and assist
the Government in all aspects of unification. The authorities' willingness to
work with IDA and the IMF to develop an MTFP -s a positive sign. The
Government's macroeconomic measures should include: adjusting and maintaining
the exchange rate at appropriate levels; reducing the budget and current
account deficits and, in this connection, increasing resource mobilization;
bringing interest rates to levels that are either market clearing rates or
rates that are positive in real terms; and severely limiting non-concessional



- 10 -
external borrowing. These objectives will be pursued by IDA via MTFP
discussion and recommendations.  Dovetailed with the above, the sector policy
objectives sthould include improving cost sharing, cost recovery and public
utility tariff levels; limiting public investments to high priority, viable
projects of appropriate size; planning, regulating and monitoring water use;
improving the policy and legal framework for forestry and land conservation;
expediting gas development; and promoting safe motherhood and women's
participation in various sectors, in particular, agriculture, micro-
enterprtse, education and training. These objectives will be pursued through
sectoral reviews and planned projects. The Government gives high priority to
providing basic services to its population, and this policy and its
implementation should be supported. However, an assessment of relative
poverty levels is needed, and poverty could be tackled more systematically
with such an assessment. After the unification, the Government introduced
market-oriented changes in the Southern Governorate, with significant gains
for private economic initiative. In general, the Government should move away
from the current over-regulated environment to a more liberal stance.
Progress in this area, while enhanced by the recent decision to allow the
private sector to secure foreign exchange in the private market, is still
slow. Also lacking, so far, are preparations for a privatization program
involving, in particular, public sector enterprises in the former PDRY. The
objectives stated in (iii) above will be pursued essentially through the
planned CIR exercise (para. 22), and the objectives in (iv) through continuous
contacts with donors and participation in a planned UNDP donors' round table
(para. 31).
25.         Agriculture remains the principal source of employment and income
in the Yemeni economy. The proposed Agricultural Sector Management Support
Project (FY92) is designed to build capacity at the national level for
planning research extension and training. It would strengthen some of the
core functions of the Ministry of Agriculture. The proposed Land and Water
Conservation Project (FY92) would strengthen the basis for sustainable
agriculture through institutional developments in the irrigation and forestry
subsectors; improve the efficiency of groundwater irrigation; conserve
indigenous forest areas and accelerate tree planting; and expand actions for
soil conservation. In the fisheries subsector, a project (Fisheries
Development IV) is planned for Board approval in FY91. The Project would
assist the Government in the institutional development and improvement of
policies for the fisheries sector; create credit facilities; provide
assistance in the design and construction of fishing and village
infrastructure. Given the importance of the sector, IDA would follow up with
other operations in later years.  In industry, IDA assistance strategy is
focused on helping the Government improve the policy and institutional
framework necessary for efficient private sector investment and growth
including the development of the financial sector. Rationalization, as a step
towards the privatization of public enterprises, will be addressed under a
planned Industry Project (FY93S).
26.         IDA assistance strategy in the energy sector is focussed on
providing advice and financial support through economic and sector work and
lending programs to improve policies on pricing, investment choices and
institutional reform. The Energy Strategy Review update to cover the unified
country and reflect updated cost and price parameters, will review most of
these issues and provide recommendations. Pending the formulation of a
government program in this sector, an energy cum power project is planned for



v 11 -
the later years. Unification has had a considerable impact on the transport
subsector due to the free flow of goods and people between the North and the
South and changes in traffic-generating centers. Building access roads to
isolated parts of the country is also of key importance. The recently
approved Multimode Transport Project will assist in connecting the Northern
highlands to the coast. In the water and sewerage subsector, a national
strategy including maintenance and cost recovery, needs to be developed. Tho
environmental impact of solid and toxic waste disposal needs to be addressed
in the rapidly growing main cities. The proposed Taiz Water Project (FY92)
would improve water availability and help network rehabilitation. A proposed
Rural Infrastructure Project would address village water supply and other
infrastructure needs to assist the poorer segments of the population. A
proposed Municipal Environment Project (FY93) will address urban environmental
issues. The issues concerning housing finance, land registration and
divestiture, local government and decentralization of infrastructure services
will be addressed in the planned Infrastructure Strategy Review.
27.         Two ongoing health projects are designed to boost primary health
care in under-served regicns. A follow-up project in the outer years would
help consolidate the gains in this sphere. An effort is being made under
several IDA projects (e.g., Southern Uplands I and II, Tihama III, IV and V)
to correct the bias in women's participation in extension services. Following
a women in development (WID) study conducted by IDA, future lending would
address the prospect of increasing project components addressing WID; with
focus on income generation, forming micro-enterprises, enlarging participation
in the labor market as well as education and training.
28.         The sectoral Allocation of Lending.  Because of its late start
(early 1970s) in development, Yemen has vast remaining needs in all sectors.
The availability of educated/skilled Yemenis is still very limited; and the
country is highly dependent on foreigners. Expatriates occupy positions
ranging from secondary school teachers to power technicians. High population
growth, combined with a large rural settlement dispersed over a difficult
geography, renders the provision of basic services and poverty alleviation
efforts onerous and costly. The recent return of large numbers of Yemenis
from the Gulf countries has added considerably to unemployment, poverty and
other social problems. IDA is preparing an Emergency Recovery Project
(FY91/92) to address the needs of this group and to support government
assistance to the returnees. In order to further alleviate hardships arising
from isolation and a lack of opportunities, the IDA lending program would
emphasize education and vocational training in unserved areas; it would also
include health and rural infrastructure directed to the same target groups
(over one third of planned lending). With full recognition of the
environmental fragility of Yemen, it would also stress land and water
conservation, water supply/sewerage, and solid waste handling (19 percent of
planned lending). In addition to the land and water conservation proj.ect, IDA
assistance to agriculture would include an agricultural sector manageL.Ont
project, two fisheries projects and an agricultural project yet to be
identified (about one-third of planned lending). These projects would
strengthen the functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Fisheries; help generate private initiative, employment and income in the
poorer regions; and contribute to foreign exchange earnings/savings. In line
with Government's longer-term objective of economic diversification, IDA would
support the rehabilitation and privatization of public sector industries and



- 12 -
help develop an energy p,oect in the later years (14 percent of planned
lending).
Bank's Policy Recommendations and Government's Response
29.         Past Dialogue.  Both YAR and PDRY were facing serious
macroeconomic imbalances prior to unification. IDA has been advising the
governments to reduce imbalances in order to achieve their development goals.
Due to several corrective measures, YAR achieved considerable growth and
stability in the mid-1980s. The availability of oil revenues in recent years
and the expectation of more oil finds, however, weakened the Government's
stance and led to the relapse of serious imbalances. To assist the Government
of YAR in its adjustment effort in the face of these imbalances, the Fund and
the Bank proposed a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) loan. A draft Policy
Framework Paper was discussed in Sana'a in March 1987. Agreement was reached
on a certain number of issues (e.g., progressive replacement of import
licensing by tariffs) but there was little progress on the interest rate and
the exchange rate issues. Subsequently, the YAR Government withdrew its
request for SAF funds. The economic dialogue with both institutions was
blunted as a result of this outcome. However, as the situation deteriorated,
interest in the dialogue with IDA was revived in 1989/90. This led to an MTFP
exercise in 1990. In both countries, policies pursued through project lending
were largely implemented.
30.         Economic. Sector Work Program and Country Dialogue.  Economic work
in Yemen is centered on the preparation of the macro-framework analysis to
provide a basis for carrying out economic dialogue with the Government. While
adjustment lending is not actively considered, the Government was informed
that the level of future lending is essentially conditional on the restoration
of viable macroeconomic balances. The main vehicle is the expansion of the
MTFP for YAR, completed in June 1990, to cover the whole unified country. To
underpin our lending strategy as well as to provide technical advice to the
Government, a comprehensive set of sector work is either ongoing or planned
for the near future. It includes reviews and studies in these sectors:
energy, industry and manufactured exports, agriculture, education and
training, infrastructure, and livestock subsector. In addition, regular
updating work will be carried out in the course of project preparation,
appraisal, and supervision. IDA has worked closely with IMF on assessing
economic issues and prospects of Yemen using each other's comparative
advantage. IMF staff's views were sought at all stages of the preparation of
the YAR-MTFP during FY90. Two IMF staff members are scheduled to participate
in the upcoming Bank economic mission to prepare an expanded MTFP to cover the
unified country. The IMF has planned two missions during the second half of
FY91, a technical assistance mission on monetary and fiscal unification and a
regular consultation mission. Two IMF advisors are stationed in Sana'a, one
at the Central Bank and one at the Ministry of Finance. Bank missions
regularly seek out the views of these advisors during their visits to Sana'a.
31.         Availability and Role of External Aid.  The former Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) have been
highly dependent on grants and concessional loans for project financing,
balance of payments as well as budget support. Yemen will continue to depend
on external aid to maintain a development effort that can offset rising
unemployment. However, the outlook for external flows is not encouraging.
The total commitment of concessional loans averaged about US$500 million per



- 13 -
year during the period 1985-88 but declined to about US$75 million during
1989; there is also a high probability of further reductions. The Government,
with UNDP assistance, is preparing a donors' round table for the second half
of 1991 to discuss development and external assistance strategies.
32.         Cofinancing with IDA.  IDA projects have benefitted from a very
substantial amount of cofixiancing from OECD and Gulf sources. Between FY79
and FY89, IDA lending (to YAR) was almost fully matched by cofinanciers.
However, cofinancing may materialize at lower levels during the next few
years.
IC Operations
33.         The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made investments
in agriculture, food processing, light manufacturing and oil refining. Its
total gross commitments as of December 31, 1990 amounted to US$23.7 million.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored in the
agricultural and energy sectors.
MIGA Operations
34.         MIGA has reviewed the possibility of providing technical
assistance to Yemen. Such assistance, involving a study of the investment
climate, is under consideration.
Summary
35.         The discovery of oil, and the immediate issues raised by
unification and the Gulf crisis, have deflected, for the time being, the
Government's attention from the needed policy changes. Currently, Yemen faces
increasing financial requirements because unification and the Gulf crisis both
happened at a time when revenues and external assistance had substantially
declined. Economic measures directed at stabilization and growth, coupled
with reforms in the administrative structure--in particular the use of
external assistance--are now more urgently needed than ever. Movement in the
right direction has taken place; however, more needs to be done to put the
economy on a stable growth path. Although the discovery of additional
petroleum reserves is possible in the next few years, the Government should
not see this as a reason for deferring reforms but as an additional tool for
implementing these reforms.
36.         The amount of IDA assistance will be closely linked with the
Government's own efforts. The center piece of an economic dialogue with the
Government is the MTFP. Delayed by the events in the Gulf, the MTFP mission
is projected for April with the analysis to be completed by August 1991. The
objective is to help the Government identify and implement the economic
policies that will create a stable base on which Yemen's economic and social
development can be mounted. The criteria for assessing progress will be
primarily based on economic policy measures (para. 11), in particular those to
reduce the budget deficit to a sustainable level.



- 14 -
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
37.         Background.  The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR or North Yemen) and the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY or South Yemen) merged in May 1990
to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). Unification provides a unique backdrop
for the proposed operation. During the past two decades, educational
opportunities have expanded rapidly. In the former YAR, educational
enrollment increased from 94,000 in the mid-1970s to nearly 1.4 million in
1989; in the former PDRY, enrollment increased from 204,000 in 1980 to 330,000
in 1987. The new Government faces many challenges in unifying the educational
system and responding to the growing demand for education throughout the
country.
38.         Financing of Education.  In the North, government expenditures on
education as a percentage of the national budget grew from 11 percent in 1978
to 20 percent in 1989, but the increase barely kept pace with rapidly
expanding enrollments. Ninety percent of the budget was spent on salaries and
only 2 percent on educational materials. In the South, the share of the
budget allocated to education declined sharply, from 18 percent in 1978 to 7.4
percent in 1988, leading to shortages of resources in all areas of education.
The pressure on the budget of ROY, which so far is maintaining a policy of
open enrollment, will be considerable.
39.         Education Expansion.  The Governments of both countries responded
to guantitative needs for expansion by building schools and institutions and
by initiating teacher training programs at the primary level. In the past two
decades, the problems of primary education have clearly taken precedence in
government decisions as well as in decisions made by external agencies
supporting educational development in Yemen. The need to build a strong base
has been recognized by IDA and USAID, the two largest sources of financial
assistance to the sector. Major support has been given to the expansion of
teacher training and to curriculum development, textbook production, and
educational management through five IDA credits and USAID support. While the
problems of primary education in Yemen are not yet solved and will continue to
require substantial support in the future, the rapid expansion at the primary
level is putting increasing pressure on secondary education.
40.         Expansion at the secondary level, especially in the North, has
also been very rapid in the last decade, at the expense of quality. While
pressures for expansion continue, the Government recognizes that gualitative
improvements in secondary education, especially in science and mathematics,
are essential if current shortages of skilled manpower are to be met. A key
constraint to the improvement of secondary schooling is the inadequate supply
of qualified Yemeni teachers. The rapid increase in enrollments necessitated
the employment of foreign teachers, who now constitute about 75 percent of the
30,000 teachers in the North (70 percent of primary teachers, 85 percent of
secondary) and about 15 percent of secondary-level teachers in the South.
'lhile effective as a stopgap measure, the use of expatriate teachers is not
satisfactory in the longer term because their training is inappropriate for
Yemen, their stays tend to be for limited periods, and their salaries impose a
substantial foreign exchange burden.
41.         Several major initiatives are needed to remedy the inadequate
supply of qualified Yemeni teachers. First, the quality of preservice teacher



- 15
training programs and the number of appropriately qualified teachers graduated
must both be raised. Second, a supportive policy framework, including
targeted incentives and stipends as well as the recruitment and training of
noned"cation graduates, is urgently needed if government efforts to replace
expatriate teachers with qualified Yemenis are to succeed in this decade.
Third, to improve the effectiveness of teachers and supervisors and of those
graduating with degrees in education, existing in-service training programs
must be improved significantly. Fourth, the current number of qualified
education administrators, inspectors and supervisors needs to be increased.
Current shortages reflect the inadequate teacher training system and the
absence of opportunities for graduate training in education in Yemen, which
perpetuates dependence on foreign specialists and trainers in the Ministry of
Education and at the university Faculties of Education.
42.         Government Strategy.  The unification of the former YAR and PDRY
into ROY will necessitate unification of the education systems of the two
former territories. The current Gulf crisis has added further complications
to the human resource picture in Yemen: a 10 percent increase in student
population (from returning Yemeni families), the loss of bilateral aid, and a
shortage of teachers and educational materials. The human resources
development section of the Five-Year Plan under preparation will, inter alia,
provide a blueprint for the unification process and establish priorities among
the many urgent needs of the system. In the interim, however, an agreement on
common programs based on emerging priorities of the two former countries forms
the basis of the current government strategy, with which IDA agrees. These
priorities, agreed during unification, include manpower development,
institution building, and administrative reform. The interim strategy
includes: the expansion and improvement of the quality, efficiency and
coverage of basic and secondary education; eradication of adult illiteracy;
extension of educational opportunities to rural areas; greater participation
of women in employment; and development of an educational infrastructure
capable of supporting and promoting skilled manpower development in key
economic sectors. The strategy emphasizes strengthening teacher training, in
particular, the training of secondary school teachers.
43.         IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement.  IDA has been involved
in the Yemeni education sector since 1973. IDA's lending strategy in the two
Yemens has supported government plans for establishing a modern education and
training system and has been closely associated with the development of
appropriate sector policies. The expansion and improvement of primary- and,
subsequently, secondary-level teacher training have been at the core of IDA
assistance. This assistance would continue and would increasingly focus on
quality and efficiency concerns. IDA would also assist the Government in
improving the applicability and cost effectiveness of other education and
training programs (including public administration) and in targeting stipends
and other incentives. In response to the Government's request for IDA
assistance in formulating the Five-Year Plan, work on an education-labor
market sector study is currently underway which, inter alia, would review
education costs and financing. However, it is broadly agreed that developing
a unified and efficient educational system would require, among other key
inputs, sufficient numbers of appropriately qualified Yemeni teachers,
administrators and supervisors. The proposed Project would complement
previous IDA education operations in both YAR and PDRY that have supported
primary teacher training, skilled manpower development, institutional
development of public administration and curriculum and textbook development.



- 16 -
In addition, the Governmeait and IDA are restructuring ongoing projects to
improve classroom teaching at the primary level. The proposed Project would
build on these interventions by improving educational quality and access at
the secondary level, where the donor community, including IDA, has contributed
considerably less.
44.         Despite initial effectiveness delays and slow implementation and
disbursement, six ongoing projects are generally meeting their objectives and
form a cohesive core of IDA assistance in the sector. Among the lessons
learned (from six completed and six ongoing projects) that have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed Project are: (i) special
attention must be paid to site selection and to the early preparation of civil
works tenders to avoid delays in project implementation; (ii) sustained
attention must be given to counterpart training to promote institutional
development; (iii) specific incentives must be used to attract women and
residents of remote areas into teaching; (iv) because the maintenance of
facilities is generally poor in Yemen, provision must be made to ensure
adequate maintenance; and (v) project design should be flexible to allow for
changes in priorities.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
45.         Proiect Objectives.  The overall aim of the Project is to improve
secondary school teaching while creating a basis for quality improvement
through upgrading the cadre of teachers, making better use of the teacher
resource, and planning for future improvements. The Project has three
specific objectives: (i) to increase the number of well-qualified Yemeni
teachers; (ii) to improve the effectiveness of the way teachers are employed
in the classroom; and (iii) to improve the mechanisms for planning,
coordinating and monitoring the training and deployment of secondary school
teachers, as well as for introducing innovations in the teaching system.
46.         Project Description.  To achieve these objectives, the Project
would provide financial support for the Ministry of Education (MOE) and for
the Faculties of Education (FOEs) at the University of Sana'a and the
University of Aden. To upgrade the quality and efficiency of preservice
training for secondary teachers, the Project would finance civil works,
equipment, furniture, technical assistance, and program support to: (i)
improve the four-year and one-year secondary teacher training programs at the
FOEs at Sana'a and Aden by reorienting their curriculum, developing
appropriate textbooks and establishing a one-year program at Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeidah to certify noneducation university graduates for secondary-level
teaching (US$0.8 million); (ii) start a master's program in education at
Sana'a that would train primary- and secondary-level teacher trainers (US$1.0
million); (iii) improve science and environmental education by establishing
Science Resource Centers and developing low-cost demonstration equipment
(US$1.9 million); (iv) upgrade and expand FOE facilities at Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeidah; renovate facilities at Sana'a, Taiz, and Aden; and construct hostels
for women at Sana'a, Taiz, Hodeidah and Aden (US$21.8 million); (v) establish
an In-service Training Institute (ITI) under MOE and reorganize and strengthen
the structure of the nationwide network of in-service training (US$2.9
million); and (vi) improve the nationwide coordination of policy formulation,
and of the planning and monitoring of secondary teacher training at MOE by



17 -
supporting the work of the Advisory Group for Trained Manpower, administering
a fund to finance development projects designed to investigate educational
improvements at the school level, conducting a study of tertiary education,
and enhancing the management capacity of the University Project Unit (US$0.7
million).
47.         The Project would be implemented over a period of seven years by
the University of Sana'a (FOE curricula and textbooks, master's program,
science education, physical facilities) and the MOE (inservice training,
coordinative policy structure). The total cost of the Project is estimated at
US$35.1 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$22.6 million (65
percent). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule
A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement, and the disbursement
schedule, are shown in Schedule B. The timetable of key processing events is
given in Schedule C, and the status of Bank Group operations in ROY is given
in Schedule D. A map of ROY is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report No.
9299-ROY dated March 7, 1991 is being circulated separately.
48.         Agreements Reached.  The main actions agreed at negotiations are:
(i) an interministerial coordinating structure, with TORs satisfactory to IDA,
to be established by March 31, 1992 to formulate and review policies within
which the Project would function; (ii) enrollment at each FOE to be limited to
its respective capacity; (iii) established international practices to te
observed in the translation or adaptation of copyrighted textbooks; (iv) the
proposed autonomous organizational structure of ITI to be finalized by March
31, 1992; (v) contracts for the procurement of TA services to be finalized by
March 31, 1992; (vi) the tertiary education study to be completed by January
31, 1994; and (vii) adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance of
buildings and equipment to be made by the Government and reviewed annually
with IDA. The signing of a cofinancing agreement with the OPEC Fund would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
49.         Environmental Assessment.  The Project falls under environmental
Category C: it is not expected to have any adverse environmental consequences.
Components that would enhance environmental benefits include curriculum and
textbook development in environmental science for the four-year teacher
training program and the review of environmental science curriculum in the
secondary-level science education program.
SO.         Benefits.  The Project would train some 650 senior teachers,
principals and inspectors annually at the In-service Training Institute to be
constructed in Sana'a; it would also upgrade the skills of some 50 MOE
technical staff through well-focused training in the areas of student
assessment, audiovisual aids and textbook development, thus improving the
quality and quantity of secondary educational administration. Improvements in
physical facilities and in the practical orientation of teacher training
curricula, as well as the development of more appropriate books and other
educational resources, would improve the quality and classroom efficiency of
3,800 secondary school teachers per year. Budgetary savings would result from
the replacement of expatriates with Yemeni teachers: the annual cost of
expatriate teachers (now US$80 million, increasing to US$160 million by 1999)
would constitute the savings. Improvements in science education would
stimulate human resource development in key economic sectors. The
construction of hostels for women would encourage more female enrollment in
schools. Finally, the establishment of an interministerial committee to



- 18 -
monitor teacher supply and demand would insure against shortages or an
oversupply of teachers.
51.         Risks.  Two possible risks are associated with the proposed
Project: (i) the failure to implement policies to rationalize the teacher
training and deployment system because of the lack of coordination among key
ministries and agencies. This risk would be mitigated by the establishment of
the Advisory Group for Trained Manpower, which would have the high-level
government support and assistance for conducting its work; and (ii) the
possible slow implementation of the building program. This risk would be
minimized because site acquisition was completed by appraisal. The
preparation of tender documents (with support from overseas architects) is
well underway.
52.         Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date: March 7, 1991



- 19 -
ScheduleA
REPUBLIC OF-YEMEN
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs
Component                    Local         Foreign        Total
-US$ million-
Improvement of Programs                   0.2           0.6           0.8
Master's Degree Program                   0.1           0.9           1.0
Science Education Program                 0.3           1.6           1.9
Improvement of Facilities                 8.5          13.3          21.8
In-service Training                       0.7           2.2           2.9
Improvement of Planning                   0.5           0.2           0.7
Total Base Cost                   10.3          18.8           29.1
Physical Contingencies       0.7           1.4           2.1
Price Contingencies          1.5           2.4           3.9
Total Project Cost                       12.5*         22.6          35.1
* Including taxes and duties of US$1.6 million.
Financing Plan
Financier                        Local         Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million----------
IDA                          4.1          15.3           19.4
OPEC Fund                    2.0           7.3            9.3
Government                   6.4           0.0            6.4
Total                       12.5          22.6           35.1



20-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Category                    JCB       Other      NA          Total
Civil Works                      12.1       8.0a      _            20.1
(9.7)       -         -           (9.7)
Professional Services              -        1.1l       -            1.1
-       (0.4)       -          (0.4)
Equipment & Furniture             2.9       2.5a                    5.4
(2.9)     (0.4)       -           (3.3)
Program Support                              -        1.1           1.1
-      (0.9)         (0.9)
Technical Ass-,stance
& Studies                               4.8        -           4.8
-       (4.4)       -          (4.4)
Operations & Maintenance           -         -        2.6           2.6
(0.7)        (0.7)
Total                            15.0      16.4       3.7          35.1
IDA Financing                  (12.6)      (5.2)    (1.6)        (19.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are corresponding amounts financed by the IDA
Credit.
Za  Of which US$6.5 million for civil works, US$0.7 million for professional
services, and US$2.1 million for equipment and furniture would be
provided by the OPEC Fund under OPEC procurement procedures.
Lb  Consists of curriculum studies, seminars, twinning arrangements, etc.



- 21 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
D)isbursements
(U'S$ iitillionls)
Credit                   % of
Category             Allocation      Expenditure to be Financed
Civil Works                    9.1       80% of total expenditure
Professional Services          0.4       100% of total expenditure
Equipment & Furniture          3.0       100% of foreign expenditure,
100% (ex factory) and 85% (local
procurement) of local expenditure
Program Support                0.9       100% of foreign expenditure,
85% of local expenditure
Technical Assistance           4.4       100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditure
Operations & Maintenance       0.7       30% of expenditure
Unallocated                    0.9
Total IDA Credit              19.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
--------------------USS million------------.
Annual            0,6     1.7     4.3      6.1     4.2      1.7     0.8
Cumulative       0.6      2.3     6.6    12.7    16.9    18.6    19.4
Percentage         3      12      34       65      87      96      100



^ 22 -
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Timetable to Prepare                    15 months
(b)  Prepared by                             Government with IDA
assistance
(c)  First IDA Mission                       November 1989
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure             November 26, 1990
(e)  Negotiations                            February 22-27, 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness           December 31, 1991
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs         Education I (Cr 421-YAR)
PPAR No. 5076
Education II (Cr 611-YAR)
PPAR No. 5086



-at.s 2t Banx GO.Jp operatio-is
A. Statemnt of IDA Ctedtt5
(As of Lcernere 31. 1940)
Amount m US$ mlktiOn
(Leas cancettatlonsS
IOA Credit
^r, tNo.  IY  3Brro.er                            P oject           Amount  2/        unoisburseo
.......................... ..................... .... .... ...... ........ .. ........ ............   .................... ........
52 creIts full;y oisrourseo                             383.8
Of wnICY SEfALS, SALS arid Program Loans   3/
fO19    1980 Repil.c of Yemen             Eouatmon IV                  10.4                  2.7
'02S    1980 RepxubLIc of Yemen          Artisanat fisheries           17.0                  2.9
202    1982 RepubtiC Qf Yemen            Sana'a Urban Oev.            15.0                  3.8
'222    1982 Rep..lic of Yemen           EducatIon III                  6.0                  1.0
1259    1982 Repub(c of Yemen            Agr. Res. & Oev.               6.0                  t11
'274    1982 Republic of Yemen            Fishertes 0ev. III            6.0                  0.5
i340    1983 Repubtic of Yemen           Education v                   10.0                  3.4
'346    1983 RevublIc of Yemen           Agr. Oev. It                   9.0                  2.3
'361    1983 Reubutc of Yemen            Power III                     19.0                  6.2
'13    1983 Reoubtic of Yemen             Highways v                   13.0                  5.2
1441    '984 Re tubilc of Yemen          orban I1                      12.0                  9.2
1453    1984 Reoublic of Yemen           Central Highlands Age.         8.0                  4.4
1470    1984 Republic of remen           Education VI                  10.0                  8.6
1547    1985 Repubtic of Yemen            toY It                        8.0                  6.7
1556    1985 Republic of Y'cmen           TA to CPO                     4.7                  4.1
1557    1985 RepubLic of Yemen           Agric. Research                5.0                  1.0
1584    1985 RepubLic of Yemen           Wadi Al JSwf Agr.Dev          10.0                 13.0
1617    1985 Repubtic of Yemen           Highway IV                    14.4                  6.9
'645    1986 Republic of Yemen           Technical Training            12.7                 13.7
1667    1986 Republic of Yemen            tihmse V                     10.0                 11.0
1701    1986 Re tublic of Yemen          Power IV                      11.7                 13.5
1702    1986 Re tublic of Yemen           T.A. Petrole("               12.0                  9.1
1726    1986 RepubLic of Yemen           Marib-Safir Roac              10.0                  0.2
1739    1987 Repubtic of Yemen             r. Aden W.S. II              5.6                  6.5
1772    1987 Republic of Yemen           SRADP                         12.3                 10.3
1773    1987 Repubtic of Yemen           Teacher Training              10.4                 10.4
823    1987 Repubtic of Yemen            Highwsy V                     16.8                 12.1
1848    1988 Republic of Yemen           Sana'eaHodeidsh Ro4d          10.7                  8.0
1886    1988 Republic of Yemen           Agr. Dev. (Worth. Reg.)       17.6                 15.6
1944    1989 Republic of Yemen           Al Mukalta water              12.0                 11.6
1972    1989 RepubLic of Yemen            Health II                     4.5                  4.5
1983    1989 Repubtic of Yemen            Eater,9 Reg.                 15.0                 15.3
2015    1989 Republic of Yemen            Inst. Dev. for Pub.          10.8                 10.8
2045    1989 Republic of Yemen            Agr. Oev. (WHA7) III         12.0                 13.1
2151 4/ 1990 Repubtic of Yeen             Health IfI                   1 0                  16.4
2160 4/ 1990 Repubtic of Yemen            Tait flood Oisaster          1; 1                 16.4
2073    1990 Republic of Yemen            Emerg. Flood Rehab,                               10.1
2164 4/ 1990 Republic of Yemen            Power Itl                                         16.7
2170 4/ 1990 Republic of Yemen            Tarim Water Supply            ,                   12.9
2177 4/ 1991 Republic of Yemen            Multi-mode Trsnsport            .0                31.9
Total                       848.9                353.1
Of which has been repaid    11.0
Total Now held by IDA       837.9
,s...
totat Undisbursed                                353.1
..-.s
1/  The status of projects listed in Part A is described In a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution which is updated twice yearly and circutated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Begiming with Credit 1202-YAR, credit amounits have been denominated in Speciat Drawing
Rights (SORs). The doller amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at
the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
Decebter 31, 1990 for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Approved curfng or after FY80.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 24 -
SC4EDULE 0
8. STATE#EPTr OF IFC IN4VESTMENTS
........ ............   ... ..
(AS of Oecember 31, 1990)
REPUBLIC OF YEMENM
(Afiount in $ mf( ion)
fear              Obtigor                                    Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Totat
1978     Yemen Oairy and Juice Products                          Dairy and            3.15      0.00      3.15
Industries Co., Ltd.                                 Juice Products
1983/    Yemen Dry Cel' Battertes                           Dry CeLL Batteries        3.25      0.90      4.15
1985
1984     National Company for                                  Vegetable Ott          4.65      0.00      4.65
Vegetable Oil and Chee Irdustries
1985     Yemen hunt Oit Coe"any                                 Oil Refinery          9.00      0.00      9.00
1986     Marib Agriculture Company                             Citrus fruits          2.40      0.30      2.70
Totat Gross Cofluitments                                                   22.45       1.20    23.65
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments,                           13.74      1.20    14.94
sakes and exchange rate adjustments
TotatL comitments rnow he(d by IFC                                          8.71      0.00      8.71
ZSSSS      .. cas2s9   33
Total Disbursed                                                             8.71      0.00      8.71
Totat Undisbjrsed                                                           0.00      0.00      0.00



3RIi) '2 82 8
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN .
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT                                                  -
SAUDI ARABIA
A O.,'                                                                                                    A G- 
AA-
I )   A   A~                                    i //  '    ~ S--AN A A
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
A.
KS,OM"ER',
ETHIOPIA
tlb,s  e  a, I'll   tro'd       omte5 Jh   World  Hank taffe o   t   th  n  
the' ;eader and i   sie, te, th  t f The I=H   =ank a-d den SnCOTPA
\aroo"t toa,.                                         . een                d  o       h n hm  dAotu 
DJ IBOUTI                                       o... hk', hw.i sats,elars e'otr or an)-enoennt racptneoschond
45                                                                                    5'
IA.P a



