Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21533
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(22220; 02710)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.5 MILLION (US$19.4 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 12, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yemen Rials
YER 1 = US$ 0.01
US$ 1 = YER 161.225
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGTM          Advisory Group for Trained Manpower
BEEP          Basic Education Expansion Project
CPPR          Country Performance Portfolio Rating
EDC           Education Development Center Incorporated
EMRP          Education Management Reform Project
ESIP          Education Sector Investment Project
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FOE           Faculty of Education
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ITI           In Service Teacher Training Institute
IDA           International Development Association
MIS           Management Information System
MOE           Ministry of Education
MTR           Mid-term Review
O & M         Operational and Maintenance
OPEC          Organization Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMU           Project Management Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
QAE           Quality At Entry
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RY            Republic of Yemen
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SRC           Science Resource Center
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
UPU           University Project Unit
YAR           Yemen Arab Republic
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Director:   Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Arun Joshi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Secondary Teacher Training Project for which
an IDA Credit (2222-YEM) of SDR 13.5 million (equivalent to US$19.4 million) to the Republic of
Yemen was approved by the Board on March 28, 1991. The project became effective on May 4, 1992.
The project closed on December 31, 1999, one year after the original closing date, having disbursed all
IDA and OPEC funds.
The conclusions and content of this report are based on project records and meetings with the various
stakeholders, including students at the Faculties of Education. The conclusions, contents and lessons
learned were also discussed with the Ministry of Education and Sana'a University, key institutions involved
in the project.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs./Mme. Arun R. Joshi (Team Leader), Del Zhiri (consultant) and Celine
Gavach (Language Program Assistant). The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy (Sector Director),
Mr. Christian Rey (Sector Portfolio Manager), Ms. Regina Bendokat (Cluster Leader), Ms. Tufan Kolan
(Portfolio Manager), and Mr. Hadi Abushakra (Counsel). The report was formatted by Afifa Alia Achsien
(Program Assistant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   16
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                27
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                       28






Project ID: P005835                         Project Name: SECONDARY TEACHER TR
Team Leader: Arun R. Joshi                  TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                          Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SECONDARY TEACBER TR                        L/C/TF  22220; 02710
Number:
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                        Region:  Middle East and
North Africa Region
Sector/subsector: ES - Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original       Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/30/89                        Effective:  12/31/91       05/04/92
Appraisal:  11129/91                         MTR:  01/31/94          10/01/95
Approval:  03/28/91                        Closing:  12/31/98        12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/GOY
Other Partners:  OPEC (Cofinancier)
STAFF               Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                       Willi A. Wapenhans
Country Director:    Inder Sud                              Ram Chopra
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudouy                         Douglas H. Keare
Team Leader at ICR: Arun Joshi                              Yogendra Saran
ICR Primary Author:  Arun Joshi; Abdelwahed Zhiri
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
-1 -



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project objectives were to: (a) increase the
number of well-qualified Yemeni secondary school teachers, especially women and teachers in rural
areas; (b) improve the effectiveness of how teachers are employed in the classrooms; and (c) improve
mechanisms for introducing innovations in the teaching system as well as for planning, coordinating,
and monitoring the training and deployment of secondary school teachers.
The development objectives were timed to address what was seen as critical problems in
education in the former North and South Yemen. Unification had just been completed, and an interim
strategy for educational development included the expansion of quality education at the primary and
secondary levels and expanded coverage of educational opportunities in rural areas and for girls.
Even as the new Government recognized the need to address the familiar shortcomings of primary
education it moved to also respond to the demand for secondary schools, which had started to
increase following the rapid expansion of primary education. The number of students at the
secondary level had increased from only about 1,000 students in 1975 to about 300,000 in 1991
(SAR, 1991).
As the Government moved to respond to this demand for secondary education, three
overriding concerns were identified:
(i) a shortage of well-qualified Yemeni and female secondary teachers. Out of 2,720 secondary
school teachers in the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), only 359 were Yemenis and only
178 were females;
(ii) poor use of the existing teachers due to weak in-service training mechanisms and the absence
of training for school administrators and managerial personnel. The SAR noted the almost
non-existent in-service teacher training for secondary level teachers, poor quality curriculum
and teaching approaches, and lack of programs to develop the skills of head teachers,
principals, trainers, inspectors, and supervisors; and
(iii) ineffective use of existing resources due to lack of planning and coordinating mechanisms
and due to inadequate data and information about teachers' needs and good teaching
practices. There was no effective mechanism to plan the number of graduates needed in
different specialties and review policies concerning teachers at this level. Furthermore, there
was no analysis of where and how changes could be introduced into the education system.
The three objectives of the Secondary Teacher Training Project were designed to address
these important issues.
The development objectives of the project were consistent with IDA's strategy at the time,
which included "developing a corps of highly qualified Yemeni teachers through efficient programs
at all levels of education" and "strengthening the institutional capacity to set sound policy and to
administer programs to enhance the quality of school education."
The objectives were clearly defined and linked well to the issues identified. The components
related to the first two objectives: (i) were well delineated; (ii) included international TA support;
and (iii) had defined agencies responsible for implementation - University Project Unit
(UPU)/Faculties of Education (FOEs) for activities under the first objective and Project
Implementation Unit (PIU)/In-Service Teacher Training Institute (ITI) for activities under the second
objective. As stated below, most of the activities related to these two objectives were implemented.
-2-



The activities under the third objective were also well defined, but had little TA support, and
their implementation depended on "coordination agencies", which had yet to be formed. The task
team and the Government counterparts preparing the project underestimated the difficulty of
establishing such agencies in a complex environment after unification. Concerning the educational
structures, the Yemen Arab Republic (North) operated a 6-3-3 school structure, while the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen (South) operated an 8-4 structure. These two structures had just been
merged into a 9-3 structure. The administrative and management structures to oversee and implement
the unified system were not fully developed. Such a situation presented difficulties in establishing
new coordination agencies, which would be responsible for implementing complex project activities,
including planning, monitoring and capacity building within educational institutions.
Furthermore, external shocks such as the Gulf Crisis (with 800,000 returnees to Yemen), the
civil war, and numerous Government changes presented formidable challenges for implementation of
project activities, especially those aimed at achieving objective three.
Given: (i) the above context; (ii) the already ongoing Education Sector Investment Project
(ESIP) which included policy reforms at the secondary level; and (iii) discussions underway for
preparing another education operation (the Education Management Reform Project, EMRP),1 which
included an extensive approach for tackling sectoral and institutional issues, the Government and the
task team agreed in 1996 not to pursue further objective three and include related activities in the
ESIP and the proposed EMRP, although these changes were not reflected in an amendment to the
Credit Agreement (see para. 3.4 for details).
The project was cofinanced by the OPEC Fund Credit No. 02710, for a total amount of
US$9.4 million. The OPEC fund financed the construction (US$5.8 million), furniture and equipment
(US$2.2 million), and architectural services (US$0.7 million) for FOEs in several parts of the
country. The OPEC co-financing also had contingencies provisions of US$0.7 million.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As mentioned above, during the supervision mission of October 1996 (one year after the mid-
term review of October 1995) it was agreed that the project would focus on the first two objectives:
(a) increasing the number of well-qualified Yemeni secondary school teachers, especially women and
teachers in rural areas; and (b) improving the effectiveness of how teachers are employed in the
classrooms. Although some activities were underway, it was decided that the third objective--
introducing innovations in the teaching system as well as improving mechanisms for planning,
coordinating and monitoring the training and deployment of secondary school teachers-would not
be pursued further given the difficulty of implementing the activities in the context of the newly
unified Republic as well as the opportunity of including some key activities under the objective in the
ESIP and the EMRP.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the development objectives, the project originally included the following
components:
To increase the number of well-qualified Yemeni teachers (Objective 1) components
included:
(a) Supporting four-year and one-year secondary teacher training programs, including re-
orienting the curriculum and teaching approaches (textbooks development) in the FOEs -
This project was later redesigned to focus on basic education.
-3-



from highly theoretical to developing teacher competencies and skills. The one-year program
was designed to accelerate the Yemenization of the teaching force by accepting qualified
graduates from other disciplines and providing them with one year of training to qualify them
as teachers.
(b) Starting a master's program in education to accelerate training/Yemenization of senior staff,
including inspectors and supervisors, and reduce the almost total dependency on external
training (prevalent at that time) for advanced degrees for education professionals.
(c) Improving science education, including developing the science curriculum for secondary
schools and raising the quality of science teaching and learning in the FOEs, which at the
time was assessed to be of poor quality and outdated.
(d) Upgrading and expanding Faculty of Education facilities to help meet enrollment targets and
improve quality of teaching. Teaching and office space were limited at the Faculties of
Education, which were housed either in rented or poor quality buildings in Universities.
To improve the effectiveness of teachers in classrooms (Objective 2), components included:
(e) Establishing an In-service Training Institute to ensure the ongoing development/training of
teachers and administrators at the secondary level; and reorganizing the structure of the
nationwide network of in-service training to integrate planning and delivery of in-service
training. A system for upgrading the skills of teachers was lacking at the time.
To improve the mechanisms for planning, coordinating, and monitoring (Objective 3),
components included:
(f) Improving planning and management of secondary teacher training by reviewing
effectiveness of current policies, formulating new ones, and preparing programs to meet
teacher shortages. These tasks were to be the responsibility of the 'inter-ministerial' and
MOE coordination agencies, which had yet to be established. This crucial activity was
expected to help integrate the inputs of the project and enhance the achievement of all project
objectives.
(g) Establishing a development fund for educational innovations and research to enhance the
ability of the MOE to respond to emerging needs in the field. The Fund was expected to
support pioneering projects that focused on addressing the numerous problems facing
education in Yemen.
(h) Conducting a tertiary education study. The study was expected to examine the employment
records of graduates from tertiary institutions and the relevance of their specialties to the
labor market and make recommendations for the long term development of tertiary education.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the mid-term review of the project in October 1995, the Bank and the Government
agreed to cancel several project activities which were assessed as being duplicative and/or had not
progressed as expected. They included:
(a) Textbook development and pilot testing of textbooks in priority areas [from Objective 1,
component (a)]. This was cancelled mainly because more relevant books in Arabic and
English became available in the market and this component 'was no longer relevant.' (Mid-
-4-



Term Review (MTR) report, November 1995). It was agreed that the funds allocated to this
activity would be utilized for text and reference books procurement for the FOE's libraries.
(b) Technical assistance to the MOE for the development of the curriculum for the teaching of
science in secondary schools [from Objective 1, component (c)]. This activity was cancelled
because the Education Sector Investment Project (ESIP) was expected to tackle curriculum
reforms at the secondary level more comprehensively and the task team did not see the need
to retain this activity in isolation from the larger initiative of the ESIP. It was agreed that the
funds allocated to this activity would be utilized under the science education program
component.
(c) Development fund for carrying out educational innovations and research (from Objective 3).
This activity was cancelled because it had not progressed, mainly because responsible
agencies (as mentioned above) were not functional. Also, a similar concept was part of the
,school-based projects' provided in the Education Sector Investment Project.
The revisions to the project objectives (set out in paragraph 3.2 above) and those to the
components of the project (set out in this paragraph 3.4) were never substantiated in an amendment to
the Development Credit Agreement, as should have been the case. The omission was certainly
inadvertent. Given that the revisions reflected the true intentions of the Government and IDA at the
time, further project supervision occurred on the basis of the revised objectives and components.
Assessments contained in this report are therefore predicated on the project's objectives and
components as revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory based on the general performance of the task team.
Overall, the project objectives were consistent with the Government's and IDA's development
strategies. The objectives addressed the need to improve secondary school teaching and to create a
basis for quality improvement through upgrading the cadre of teachers and making better use of the
teacher resource and planning for future improvements, all important education issues at the time.
Key risks for efficient and effective implementation were also identified in the Staff Appraisal
Report.
However, a review of the types of issues encountered during the life of the project shows that
the following could have been better addressed. For example:
*  Key coordinating agencies could have been established early during project preparation.
The task team underestimated the difficulties that arose from unifying two different education
systems and the impact of this on establishing coordinating agencies for implementing
activities under objective three. Detailed TORs for the coordinating agencies were not
developed and the agencies were not staffed and established prior to negotiations. However,
it is important to note that the task team could not foresee the Gulf Crisis, the civil war, and
the numerous Government's changes which also unexpectedly and negatively influenced the
establishment of these coordinating agencies.
*  Implementation issues could have been adequately assessed/mitigated. A risk identified
during appraisal was the slow implementation of the project due to delays in site selection,
preparation of tender documents, and the award of contracts (in particular for civil works).
No mitigation plan for this risk was proposed. The sites for the large FOEs were not
identified during project preparation and changed several times before construction started.
-5-



Also, complex designs were modified on various occasions, delaying the start and the
completion of the FOEs. However, as above, here too it is important to note the negative
impact of external events on delayed implementation, for example, the implementation of
project activities came to a standstill for months during the civil war.
*  Adequate monitoring and evaluation mechanisms could have been developed. The
objectives were adequately defined, but project progress monitoring was not adequately
designed, and impact assessment mechanisms were largely absent, making it difficult to
assess the achievement of development objectives. Annex 1 of this ICR, presents some
inputs/output indicators as specified in the SAR, which provide a 'proxy' basis for assessing
the project's accomplishments. It is important to note, however, that the QAE's demands on
project teams were less rigorous at that time. For example, detailed log-frames and
performance indicators were not required as part of project preparation.
In retrospect and in an ideal setting, these risks could have been reduced prior to the start of
project implementation through the: (a) early establishment of strong, functional, coordinating
agencies; (b) completion of designs and site selections; and (c) determination of adequate
mechanisms for monitoring project progress and impact evaluation.
At the time, however, the task team could not have foreseen major external events such as the
Gulf Crisis and the civil war, which negatively impacted the establishment of the coordinating
agencies as well as the smooth implementation of project activities. Also, as noted above, the
institutional requirements for QAE was lower, including the requirement for developing a strong
monitoring and evaluation system for assessing project impact. Given these contexts and
unanticipated difficulties the task team cannot be held solely responsible for the issues identified
above. Overall, the task team's assessment of the key sectoral issues and proposed solutions and
implementation arrangements (including detailed timetables for the components) were satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective:
The SAR does not provide specific impact indicators for assessing the achievement of project
objectives. The ICR uses national trends and project outputs to assess the project impact, as
presented below.
(a) Increasing the Number of Well-qualified Secondary School Teachers, especially Women
Teachers in Rural Areas.
Table 1: Secondary School Teachers, 1989/90 and 1998/99
Indicator: Secondary   1989/90 (SAR)          1998/99
school teachers
No.       %       No.        %
Total of which,       2,720*             12,479
- females             178      6.5      2,433      19.5
- Yemeni             359        13.7    9,793      72.1
Since reliable figures for the former PDRY were not available, the SAR mostly utilized
YAR figures. *Includes 93 teachers in National Service
-6-



The figures in the table present broad estimates and national trends because the comparison is
between the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) figures in 1989/90 and the Republic of Yemen
(RY) figures in 1998/99.
The table shows that: (a) the number of secondary school teachers has more than quadrupled
in the last decade; (b) the share of women teachers has increased from 6.5% to 19.5%; and (c) the
share of Yemeni teachers has increased from 13.7% to 72.1%. These national trends show that the
first project objective has been achieved, although it is difficult to determine the exact contribution of
the project to these figures.
A review of the current status of the project supported FOEs2 reveals that they are largely
operational. In 1999, 4,537 secondary school teachers graduated from the four FOEs, exceeding the
SAR projection of 3,800 graduates and representing a 10% increase over 1992/1993.
By comparing the annual outputs of the four FOEs (4,537) with the current number (12,479)
and projected need, it is clear that the outputs are exceeding the growth of secondary level teaching
positions. Also, little information is available about these graduates, especially whether they are
teaching in secondary schools in rural areas or in the subjects that are in demand. Data from the
Sana'a FOE indicate that there is over-supply in some subjects such as social studies and a shortage
of graduates in scientific disciplines, The SAR had projected a 'steady state' of 3,800 graduates from
the FOEs and had proposed 'coordinating' agencies (which as mentioned above were never
established) that would assess and establish policies for the volume, disciplines and quality of
graduates.
Informal interviews with a random sample of students at the Sana'a FOE showed that they are
generally pleased with the facilities, the improved curriculum, and faculty. However, many would
seek teaching positions in the urban centers, particularly Sana'a, although some mentioned their
willingness to teach in rural areas. Many students confirmed that they would not mind working in
contexts that are not entirely relevant to their areas of specialization if teaching jobs were not
available. The new Teacher's Law which provides extra incentives for teaching in rural areas should
help in encouraging graduates to teach in rural areas. Nevertheless, it is important to assess this
situation of over-supply of graduates from the FOEs and rationalize training in needed disciplines.
The ongoing Higher Education Rationalization Study is reviewing this matter and recommendations
for action will be discussed with the Government.
Concerning the aim of improving gender balance, the SAR had projected that the share of
female enrollment in the FOEs would increase about 20% to 50%. The 1998/1999 figures show that
this goal has been met with the proportion of registered female students approaching 49%. However,
this increase is not specifically linked to project interventions. Dormitories, which had been planned
for the FOEs to increase female participation, were dropped as a result of cost-overruns in
construction. Female participation in short- and long-term training programs under both the MOE
and FOE components was nonexistent. Except for the Sana'a ITI dormitories for females, which are
currently being used, several of the activities oriented towards improving gender equity were not
carried out. The increase in the share of females in the FOEs is more likely a result of broader socio-
cultural and economic processes than of project interventions. Given these considerations, the gender
impact of the project is rated modest.
The project has contributed to increasing the share of Yemeni teachers in secondary schools
and in the FOEs. While no detailed data on development of graduates are available, sectoral data
indicate that the number of foreign teachers at MOE's preparatory/secondary schools has been
2There are currently 26 FOEs in the Republic of Yemen, the four FOEs built by the project are the largest.
-7-



reduced by over 50% over the last four years to 3,800. The number of non-Yemeni professors in the
FOEs has also decreased from 93 teachers in 1992/93 to 79 in 1999/2000, while the number of
Yemeni professors increased from 226 to 347.
(b) Improving the Effectiveness of how Teachers are Employed in the Classrooms.
It is hard to directly assess the attainment of this objective due to the lack of data (both baseline and
current) on the use of curriculum or the utilization of trained staff, but some project outputs can be
used as "leading indicators" to assess the project's success. Based on informal discussions with MOE
staff and trainers, it is fair to conclude that the central ITI and its regional network are providing in-
service training to teachers and helping to improve their performance in the classrooms.
A review of the current status of the ITI shows that it is fully operational with in-service
training programs being conducted at different times of the year. The Curriculum and Teacher
Training Sector of MOE confirmed that over 500 trainees are trained at the center annually; and more
are trained at the regional ITIs. The SAR had projected 640 trainees annually. As many as 120
trainees can be accommodated in the dormitories, including up to 40 females; this exceeds the
originally planned capacity of 100 and 30 respectively. The ITI is connected to a "network" with the
Govemorate-level ITIs.
MOE staff were trained in numerous training programs. Although accurate information on
current positions of these staff is not available, senior officials at the ITI indicated that many of the
staff trained are working in relevant positions either at the center or regional offices of the MOE,
thereby helping improve the quality of training and other relevant operations.
The curriculum that was developed for use in the ITI has been completed. ITI training
programs are "in-service", and most teacher trainees return to their training, supervising, or teaching
responsibilities. In this regard, their training is expected to influence the quality of teaching and
learning in schools, but an assessment of quality improvement (in teaching and learning) is difficult to
carry out.
In recent years, MOE's strategy has focused heavily on basic education expansion and
improvement of quality at this level. While the ITI and the regional centers will continue to be used
for secondary teacher training programs, they are also expected to be used for training trainers,
supervisors, and teachers at the basic education level. The proposed Basic Education Expansion
Project is expected to support the MOE in the expansion of training for supervisors and teachers at the
basic education level through these ITIs.
4.2 Outputs by Components:
(a) Support for Four-and One-Year Secondary Teacher Training Programs
The courses prescribed by the traditional system were oriented towards theoretical knowledge
about education rather than towards developing teacher competencies, including effective teaching
techniques and classroom management. This component was designed to re-orient the curriculum
towards a more modern approach.
A curriculum improvement activity was set up for implementation at all FOEs, and was
carried out by a Curriculum Development Committee. The curriculum improvement process
involved: (i) an assessment of the effectiveness of the course offerings and the curricular needs of the
system and the students; (ii) seminars to disseminate the results of the assessment; and (iii) a revision
-8-



of education courses, especially those which develop competencies and skills needed by secondary
school teachers.
The curriculum was developed within Sana'a University as all FOEs were at the time
branches of the Sana'a FOE. Education Development Center Incorporated (EDC), the contractor for
the task, developed one hard copy version of the curriculum and relevant materials. Sana'a University
and the PIU did not until recently follow up with making copies, organizing the distribution, or
incorporating the curriculum in different FOEs. The Minister of Education has now agreed to
immediately distribute the curriculum, and a workshop to disseminate the curriculum is planned
during the annual meeting of the FOE deans before the end of the calendar year. By next academic
year the curriculum is therefore expected to be used by all FOEs across the country.
The one-year program focused on developing teaching skills and used the textbooks of the
regular four-year program.
(b) Master's Degree Program for Teacher Trainers and Education Administrators
This component was designed to reduce Yemeni dependence on overseas training at the
postgraduate level, and to enhance the professional capabilities of academics and administrators.
Most of the professional staff in the MOE possessed only a bachelor's degree.
A master's program was designed through twinning arrangements, improvement in physical
facilities, equipment, and materials (books, joumals, software) as well as technical assistance (64
staff-months of international expert services for program design and initial operation, and 12 staff-
months of fellowships for doctoral studies).
This program was specifically designed for Sana'a FOE since the central FOE was capable of
running a Master's Program with adequate teaching staff and other support. The program is
operational. While exact data on employment of graduates from this program is not available, ICR
interviews suggest that they either proceed on to higher studies or are hired by the MOE in various
capacities, including inspectors and senior supervisors as anticipated in the SAR.
(c) Science Education Program
Science teaching methods were traditional and facilities (such as labs, etc.) were inadequate
and of poor quality. This component was designed to strengthen the capacity of secondary schools to
teach science by instructing teachers in modern curriculum content and effective instructional
materials as well as by improving science facilities at the FOEs.
Laboratories for teaching biology, physics, and chemistry were established at the FOEs at
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. Aden FOE had procured equipment separately with Japanese
Govemment support. FOEs at Ibb and Hajjah received equipment to bring their laboratory and other
facilities up to standard. As mentioned above, new science and math curricula for the secondary level
are being developed under the ESIP.
However, use of science education facilities was initially hampered by slow connection to
works and electrical connections. In Taiz, the distance to water and electrical outlets has constrained
the full use of facilities. While electrical connections have now become available, trucks are still
transporting water. Ibb, Hajjah, and Hodeidah facilities are operational. In Sana'a FOE, electricity is
not yet available for the facilities but the University is organizing the connections.
-9-



Overall, the science education program is just becoming operational. However, students and
faculty members interviewed informally are very pleased with the available facilities, since earlier
they had to share labs in other Faculties, sometimes traveling long distances. For example, students
in Hajjah traveled to Hodeidah every several months for a week for their "practicals". Similarly,
students in the Sana'a FOE had to share labs with the Faculty of Science, which created scheduling
problems for both Faculties. The full use of the facilities by students and impact on their learning can
only be assessed at a later time.
(d) Expansion of Facilities
The facilities for the teaching of education at the University of Sana'a and its branches at the
time (Taiz, Hodeidah, Ibb, Hajja) as well as at the College of Education at the University of Aden was
inadequate and of poor quality. This component was designed to help build new facilities for the
FOEs of Sana'a, Taiz, Hodeidah and Aden (currently these FOEs are under independent Universities)
and help improve the facilities at the FOEs in Hajjah and Ibb.
Construction and renovation of the four FOEs has been completed. Physical facilities
provided include: auditoriums and lecture rooms for 60 and 30 students; science labs (for physics,
biology, and chemistry); faculty offices; teacher and student facilities; and a cafeteria. Furniture and
equipment were provided for all student places at the four FOEs. The project experienced some costs
overruns, which are mainly due to cost underestimates and to delays in the construction of the FOEs.
All FOEs are currently operational with students enrolled in different programs and with a total
annual output of 4,537.
Informal interviews with faculty and students at the Sana'a FOE show that they are pleased
with these new buildings. Faculties were especially pleased with individual room assignments which
provide adequate space for discussing and guiding students. In the past, 7 faculty members shared
one room, making it impossible for them to have meaningful discussions with students.
(e) Establishing an In-service Training Institute and Network Development
Coordination among training agencies was sub-optimal, clear policies on in-service teacher
training, especially for secondary level teachers was largely absent. In this context, this component
was designed to improve the quality of instruction delivered in schools through various activities
including establishing a central ITI and developing new curricula.
As discussed above as part of Objective 2, a central ITI has been established in Sana'a, with a
hostel for about 120 male and 40 female trainees. Requisite equipment, furniture, and library
facilities have been installed. Twenty five staff-months of specialist services and 32 staff-years of
fellowship training were completed to facilitate the assessment of training needs, the development of
training programs, the preparation of training materials for secondary level trainers or teachers, and
the upgrading of training skills of ITI staff. The Sana'a ITI is fully operational. The ITI is used for
training of trainers and supervisors, and other forms of central level training. Female trainees
participate and have access to the dormitories when they are traveling from outside of Sana'a. The
project also provided equipment and furniture to regional training centers and to regional supervision
directorates. Overall, a functioning teacher training system has been established.
(f-g) Improving Planning and Management, Establishing Development Fund and
Conducting the Tertiary Education Study
No agency was responsible for developing the education sector at the school level. There
was no planning body to answer questions such as how many teachers should be recruited and
-10-



students admitted to the FOEs or what specific policies might encourage rural students and women to
become teachers? This component was designed to help establish the needed 'coordinating bodies'
and develop approaches for encouraging innovations in the education sector.
An Advisory Group for Trained Manpower (AGTM), an Education Subcommittee, and a
Secretariat or Working Group were to be established for the project, mainly to implement activities
under Objective 3; but as mentioned earlier they never became operational. The AGTM was
expected to: (i) agree annually on appropriate enrollments in the FOEs to meet national teacher needs,
by subject specialties; (ii) adopt or recommend policies to the Cabinet regarding incentives, including
stipends, to encourage the output of graduates in short supply; and (iii) review policy framework. As
mentioned above, the Development Fund which was to encourage innovative approaches to
addressing education problems in the country was cancelled during the mid-term review (MTR).
After a considerable delay, the Tertiary Education Study was completed in 1997, but was of limited
scope and quality. It lacked pertinent conclusions and viable recommendations. The recommendations
were limited to financial diversification, and there was no discussion of a national strategy for higher
education.
The ongoing Higher Education Rationalization Study is reassessing the situation of the FOEs,
particularly the oversupply of graduates and reviewing comprehensively the policies affecting higher
education. It is expected to recommend sustainable mechanisms for addressing issues the
'coordinating' agencies would have been responsible for.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
NA.
4.4 Financial Rate of Return:
NA.
4.5 Institutional Development Impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is modest since two out of the three
objectives were accomplished with sound mechanisms in place for training teachers in the country.
Had the third objective been met the rating could have been upgraded.
A basic institutional set-up has been accomplished for training teachers in the country. The
FOEs and the [TI and its regional network, two core categories of institutions supported by the
project, are operating at full capacity. The Ministry of Education relies on the FOEs for pre-service
training of teachers/supervisors and on the iTIs for the continuing in-service upgrading and refresher
training of teachers/supervisors.
Curricula for the four-year, one-year and masters programs at the FOEs and for the in-service
training of secondary school teachers at the ITIs have been developed and their full utilization is
expected to begin starting in the next academic year. Short-and long-term training of staff and faculty
for these institutions was also completed; and while accurate information on employment of
personnel trained is not available, interviews suggest that most are working in relevant positions.
While the basic institutional structures have been set up, issues of quality and sustainability
(see also section on Sustainability) have not been fully addressed. Admissions criteria to limit intake
of students and fees structures for increasing Operational & Maintenance (O&M) budgets and
maintaining quality require careful review and policy changes.
-11-



The SAR noted that achieving the "project objectives of enhancing teacher resources and
their utilization at the secondary level depends on achieving better coordination among the relevant
agencies and on adopting appropriate policies to ensure this coordination." Several benefits of
establishing coordination were noted, including: (i) enrollments in the FOEs would not exceed the
capacity of the institutions to provide good quality education; and (ii) the mix of specialization
studied would match those needed by secondary schools.
As mentioned already, the Government has been slow in addressing the issues of
coordination and no structure exists to coordinate among the FOEs or between the individual FOEs
and the Ministry of Education. Only recently the Minister of Education has been assigned
responsibility for higher education, which should start helping to address some key coordination
issues mentioned above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency:
Unification, Gulf Crisis and the Civil War. The project was prepared and implemented
during three major events which were outside the control of the Government. During 1990, when the
project was being prepared, the country went through the unification process (bringing together not
only different civil service, administrative, and management systems, but also two education
systems). Immediately following unification, the Gulf Crisis, which resulted in a massive return of
migrant workers, placed additional strains on the Government's ability to finance social services,
including educational facilities. As a result, project preparation was delayed. During project
implementation, the civil war broke out (1994) and effectively shut down all project activities for
over 6 months. Delays especially affected contracting civil works and international TA.
5.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.
(a) Lack of Responsible Institutions to Oversee the Project. The inability to set up the
relevant 'coordinating' institutions to oversee the project as specified in the SAR was perhaps
the most important factor that negatively impacted project outcome. Without an overarching
body responsible for the project, implementation of the components became fragmented into
an "FOE" component and an "MOE" component. The Implementation Units were not
adequately supported. As an example, since 1997, the UPU director ran the project alone
with little support and guidance from the Government. Also worth noting were the several
changes in Ministry (MOE) leadership during project implementation.
(b) Administrative Rigidities. The Government's cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for
contract and expenditure approvals slowed down project implementation. Streamlining the
procedures for IDA projects has been discussed at several CPPR missions and raised by the
World Bank Country Office as an important implementation issue. Some improvements have
been noted recently.
(c) Increased Enrollment at the FOEs. The pressure to find post-secondary education places
for secondary graduates is driving enrollment in the FOEs upward. As a result, there is an
oversupply of liberal arts graduates who remain unemployed. The "coordinating" institutions
mentioned above were responsible for determining appropriate enrollments in the FOEs to
meet national teacher needs, by subject specialties, but because the institutions never became
functional, this has not been possible.
-12-



5.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
Ineffective Management. During the first half of project implementation, the
Implementation Unit was not entirely effective, which led to a very slow start. For example, the civil
works for the FOEs did not start until late 1995. After 1997, a new director was chosen, and the UPU
improved its effectiveness and financial system. The MOE component progressed at a better pace
under the management of the MOE PIU. Overall, however, more attention should have been paid to
effective project management, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation, and the
assessment of project impact.
5.4 Costs and Financing:
The Credit and OPEC funds were fully disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated likely.
The FOEs and the ITIs are expected to continue as core teacher training institutions. The
Government assessed the need for these institutions, requested IDA's support and contributed
counterpart funding for the construction/establishment of these institutions. The current operations of
these institutions are being supported by the Government's budget. This form of support is expected
to continue.
However, although the Government provides annual operating budgets to the FOEs, there are
important quality and financial sustainability issues in teacher training, which need to be addressed.
The sustainability rating is therefore 'qualified' because both the FOEs and the ITIs need to
take a more proactive role in utilizing the curriculum that has been developed. In the FOEs, intake of
students must be carefully reviewed in order to maintain quality of teaching. For example, labs in the
FOEs are already getting crowded and faculty members showed concern about inadequate lab
equipment. Of greater concern is the ability of the FOEs to maintain equipment, educational
materials, and computers in the labs. Regular budgets of the FOEs are not sufficient to adequately
maintain labs, and FOEs may need to review fee structures and other fund raising methods to
maintain quality of teaching in the FOE labs.
Overall, sustaining adequate quality and linkages to the market would require a much greater
involvement/commitment of the Government. The ongoing study for Higher Education
Rationalization should provide the context/guiding principles for the Government's involvement to
ensure long-term sustainability of these institutions.
6.2 Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:
It is anticipated that the FOEs and the ITI will continue to operate. However, in order to
improve quality and remain sustainable, the following.issues need to be considered by the responsible
institutions:
* Closer monitoring of how the curriculum that was developed is used. In the FOEs, this will
require distribution of the curriculum already developed, which is expected by year end.
-13-



*  Better assessment of the number and skills mix of the graduating teachers (based on market
demand). This would require revisiting the issues concerning establishing mechanisms for
"coordination" and policymaking, including careful reviews and reforms in admissions
policies/fee structures, issues the Higher Education Rationalization Study is expected to help
with.
*  Greater flexibility in the FOE programs to allow for curricular changes.
*  In the ITIs, attention should be given to a system of training teachers at the secondary level
along with a monitoring and feedback system that evaluate how these training are impacting
teaching and learning at the secondary level and how new reforms might be introduced.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory. The
SAR identified risks for the attainment of project objectives (including the need for coordination) and
reflected on lessons learned from prior projects, especially the implementation of civil works,
sustainability, and institutional development. The task team, however, was not fully successful in
guiding the borrower in establishing the institutional set-up for the project or in addressing
implementation issues identified prior to project inception.
Staff mix and continuity at preparation and appraisal was generally adequate. One key
activity which could have helped the project attain its objectives, would have been to establish, prior
to appraisal/negotiations, the "coordinating structure" for the relevant Ministries/institutions. As
mentioned above, this step would have been particularly relevant for the attainment of the third
project objective (improving mechanisms for planning etc.) and would also have helped in the more
robust attainment of the other two objectives. The appraisal team had no implementation specialist to
address this issue and other implementation issues such as inconsistencies and under-estimated
construction and renovation costs (see Annex 2 for estimated and actual disbursements for civil
works).
7.2 Supervision:
Considering the country's constraints under which the task team operated, Bank's
performance during supervision was satisfactory. During the eight years of project implementation
(from April 1991 to December 1999), there were 23 supervision missions (97.3 staff weeks).
Although continuity in supervision was adequate, follow-up could have been more rigorous and
project performance assessments and ratings could have been more realistic; supervisions were
sometimes constrained by the security situation, which limited travel to project sites. Overall,
supervision missions could have been more proactive in changing the course of critical activities such
as solving the problems of delays in construction. Even though the SAR had outlined "lessons
learned" in implementing civil works, Bank's supervision did not lead to effective action to resolve
these issues. The Bank also did not succeed in supporting the borrower in addressing the issues
related to institution building and establishing "coordination" agencies. Once the Resident Mission
was established in 1995, it assisted in addressing issues in financial management and site accidents, in
working out the arrangement with the co-financier OPEC, all while seeking extension of the IDA's
Credit. Nonetheless, according to a QAG report on this project, "more attention could have been paid
to align the stated development objectives and the project design within the life of the project."
-14-



One other issue that developed during supervision was the Bank's decision to pay for OPEC
financed civil works with IDA's resources. Even though this was done to expedite payments it
created administrative problems for OPEC. OPEC eventually agreed to make payments for IDA's
financed-civil works.
During the mid-term review, the Bank reached agreement with the Government to drop certain
activities and a similar agreement was reached during the mission of October 1996 not to pursue
further the third objective, although some activities under the objective (e.g., Tertiary Education
Study) were allowed to proceed. These were proactive decisions on the part of the task team and the
Government counterparts who had assessed the difficulty of implementing activities under objective 3
on the one hand and seized the opportunity of including these activities in the ongoing Education
Sector Investment Project as well as the proposed EMRP on the other. As mentioned already, these
changes, however, were not formalized in an amendment to the Credit Agreement, which is an
omission of the task team.
7.3 Overall Bank Performance:
Given the above, the overall Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation and appraisal, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Even
under the stress of unification, the Borrower contributed adequately to the preparation of the project.
7.5 Government Implementation Perfiormance:
The Government/FOE administration's performance was unsatisfactory, especially with
respect to FOE site selections, which caused major delays and price escalations. The relationship
with contractors and management consultants was also poor and caused numerous delays and ill will.
Most importantly, the institutional set-up (including the coordinating agencies mentioned above) was
never established.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Until 1997, the administration and the financial management of the project were not
satisfactory. As noted above, there were significant implementation problems, especially related to
civil works. During implementation, the Government's performance was adversely affected by weak
financial management and the absence of tight controls over administrative and financial management
of the components implemented by the University. This situation was improved in 1997 with the
assignment of a new director.
More recently, progress reporting was regular and of satisfactory quality for both the UPU
(FOE) and the PIUJ (MOE) components. The audit report for the period ending December 31, 1999
was submitted to IDA and was unqualified. 'Internal control' was identified as an issue for the UPU,
but the Country Office Financial Management Specialist (FMS) has looked into the matter and
considers it 'excusable', given that the UPU unit was small and maintained good documentation.
Compliance with all other covenants has been satisfactory.
-15-



7.7 Overall Borrower's Performance:
Even though Borrower's performance could have been better during supervision, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory based on their accomplishments during preparation
and during the later period of implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
The following key lessons can be drawn from this project implementation experience:
(a) Coordinating agencies responsible for implementing key activities (such as the components
under the third objective) need to be established and detailed TORs developed prior to
negotiations. These structures should be fully staffed and staff trained in their roles and
responsibilities. The experience of the project shows that the implementation of components
that had an existing/already established responsible agency were more satisfactorily
implemented (activities under Objectives 1 & 2) than those that did not have such an agency
(activities under Objective 3).
Early establishment of agencies that are responsible for implementation is recommended,
especially in a difficult 'environment' such as that of Yemen after unification. Project
preparation and appraisal teams should involve an implementation specialist for adequately
developing implementation structures that are simple, effective, and 'workable' in the
country context.
(b) Technical Assistance support should also include adequate consensus building and
knowledge transfer. Without such ownership encouraging approaches, TA products are not
fully utilized by the agencies for which they are developed. For example, the curriculum
developed for the four-year program is not yet utilized by all the FOEs, largely due to the
non-participatory approach used in its development. The tertiary education study is a similar
example.
(c) To avoid delays in the implementation of civil works, special attention should be paid to the
timely selection of sites, early preparation and review of architectural designs, especially if
the contracts are large in value such as the FOEs contracts under the project. Lack of
attention to these issues resulted in delays in construction progress.
(d) In the early phase of the project, PMU's performance was not satisfactory, largely due to
inadequately selected/trained staff. Competitive selection process and adequate training of
responsible PMU staff on project management, procurement, and financial management
issues are essential for efficient project processing and are already being addressed/enforced
as per the new PMU's Guidelines.
(e) Log-frames and monitoring and evaluation systems must be developed early in the project to
assess both project progress as well as achievement of development objectives.' Such a
system also allows critical activities of the project to be closely monitored. Implementation
delays and project cost overruns (for construction) could have been minimized if a well-
designed monitoring and evaluation system was in place. In addition, indicators to assess the
impact of project interventions should also be developed during project preparation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government of Yemen had no substantive comments on the ICR.
3 As per the new project preparation standards and guidelines.
-16-



(b) Cofinanciers:
The OPEC Fund for International Development commented as follows:
QUOTE. Thank you very much for providing us with a copy of the draft Implementation
Completion Report of the captioned project. We congratulate you on the high quality of the report,
the conclusions of which largely correspond to our experience of the project. We would request that
added consideration be given to the following points:
1.    We fully concur with the conclusion that weak institutional capacity was the major constraint
on the project's successful implementation. We would further add that, although certain measures
may have improved the PIU's capacity during the latter part of the implementation period,
management of the project never achieved the level of efficiency necessary to an effective
implementation.
2.    As indicated in your report, the project's institutional shortcomings were manifest in the
mismanagement of the Civil Works. From our perspective, these shortcomings were especially
evident when they resulted in financial mismanagement, which developed into a major failing of the
project. As your own disbursement officers will confirm, much administrative time and effort was
misallocated to solving complicated problems arising out of unnecessary errors in applications, non-
procedural financial commitments and lack of adherence to disbursement guidelines and norms on the
part of the project Executing Agency.
3.    From the OPEC Fund's perspective one valuable lesson that was confirmed is that, for a
relatively small institution like our own, the services that the Bank can bring to co-financed
operations in difficult environments are indispensable. As Messrs. Ali Husni and Ali Khamis will
attest, the exemplary level of co-operation between the Fund and the Bank's Resident Mission in
Sana'a over the resolution of problems was crucial to the successful completion of the project. May
we suggest, now that the Bank is no longer administering OPEC Fund loans, that the withdrawal of
services such as those provided by Resident Missions may not be conducive to the success of co-
financed operations in the future.
Once again, we thank you for the Report and your valuable co-operation over this project.
Regards, S. Aissi, Assistant Director-General, Operations Management. UNQUOTE
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicators
Output Indicators              Pr jectd in  SAR              ALtaL        timate
Annual graduates from FOEs               3,800                         4,537
Annual graduates from ITI                  640                            500+
Outcomes
New FOE buildings constructed,              4                              4
furnished.
College of Ed., Aden refurbished.            1                             1
Senior officials study tours                4                              4
co'mpleted.
In-service Teacher Training                  1                             I
Center constructed, furnished.
Twinning arrangement with Univ.       To be completed                  Completed
of Birmingham completed and
Master's degree program
established and operational.
Short term training in numerous       To be completed                  Completed
areas completed.
Curriculum for the four year FOE      To be completed                  Completed
and the ITT courses completed.
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB                                        N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other'  .       .     ..
1. Works                        12.10          0.00          8.00           0.00         20.10
(9.70)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (9.70)
2. Goods                        2.90           0.00          2.50           0.00          5.40
(2.90)        (0.00)         (0.40)        (0.00)         (3.30)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00          1.10
Professional Services          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.40)         (0.00)        (0.40)
4. Program Support              0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00          1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.90)        (0.00)         (0.90)
5. Technical Assistance         0.00           0.00          4.80           0.00          4.80
and Studies                    (0.00)         (0.00)        (4.40)         (0.00)        (4.40)
6. Operations and               0.00           0.00          0.00           2.60          2.60
Maintenance                    (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.70)        (0.70)
Total                        15.00          0.00          17.50          2.60          35.10
(12.60)        (0.00)        (6.10)         (0.70)        (19.40)
Source: Staff Appraisal Report
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB           Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       24.12           0.00          0.00           0.00         24.12
(11.60)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (11.60)
2. Goods                        4.49           0.00          0.00           0.00          4.49
(2.59)        (0.00)         (0.00)        ( )            (2.59)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           1.35          0.00          1.35
Professional Services          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.86)         (0.00)        (0.86)
4. Program Support              0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Technical Assistance         0.00           0.00          4.24           0.00          4.24
and Studies                    (0.00)         (0.00)        (4.24)         (0.00)        (4.24)
6. Operations and               0.00           0.00          0.11           0.00          0.11
Maintenance                    (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.11)         (0.00)        (0. 1)
Total                        28.61          0.00           5.70          0.00          34.31
(14.19)        (0.00)        (5.21)         (0.00)       (19.40)
Source: Project Management Units
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
" Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
No data is provided under "Program Support", because large contracts involving both "Program Support and Technical
Assistance" were made, making it impossible to split values to each category.
- 19-



Proect Financin  b  Cate o  of Ex enditure (in US$ millione uivalent)
04~tY 6f  >   g                                                                           ercetage of    raisal
Civil Works                9.10       3.60      5.90       11.60       5.57      6.96     127.5  154.7  118.0
Equipment & Furniture      3.00       0.00       1.90      2.59        0.00       1.93    86.3    0.0   101.6
Professional Services      0.40       0.00      0.70       0.86        0.19      0.30    215.0   0.0    42.9
Program Support            0.90       0.10      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance       4.40       0.40      0.00       4.24                           96.4    0.0    0.0
Operations and             0.70       1.90      0.00       0.11        0.00      0.00      15.7    0.0    0.0
Maintenance
Unallocated                0.90       0.40      0.80                                       0.0    0.0    0.0
Total                      19.40      6.40      9.30       19.40       5.76      9.19     100.0   90.0   98.8
Source: Project Management Units
No data provided under "Program Support", because large contracts involving both "Program Support and
Technical Assistance' were made, making it impossible to split values to each category.
IDA Credit b Disbursement Category (In US$ milion equivalent
fT0 ; :''',Y' FfCaepSr                                       AppatalyM;sT.S? ie ActualE,, Perce,.tage:'''",i;i 
I-A Civil Works under Parts A(1) and A(2) of the Project               8.30           10.65      128%
1-B Civil Works under Part C(l) of the Project                         1.00            0.95       95%
2-A Equipment, furniture, educational materials, books and copyrights  3.00            2.51       84%
under Parts A and B of the Project
2-B Equipment, furniture, educational materials, books and copyrights  0.35            0.05       14%
under Part C of the Project
3-A Consultants' services for supervision of construction and under parts  1.40        1.20       86%
B(l), B(2) and B(3)(i) of the Project
3-B Consultants' services under Parts B(3)(iii) and C of the Project   0.70            1.25      178%
4-A Fellowship and training under parts B(1), B(2) and B(3)(ii) of the  2.00           2.44      122%
Project
4-B Fellowship and training under parts B(3)(iii) of the Project       0.70            0.03        4%
5-A Operations and Maintenance under Part A(3) for FOE                 0.60            0.00        0%
5-B Operations and Maintenance under Part A(3) for MOE                 0.10            0.00        0%
6-A Travel and subsistence allowances under Part B(l) of the Project   0.10            0.06       10%
6-B Travel and subsistence allowances under Part C of the Project      0.05            0.00        0%
Unallocated                                                            1.10            0.00        0%
TOTAL    19.40             19.14      100%
Source: World Bank Loan database, May 9, 2000
The initial DCA signed on June 12, 1991 did not split disbursement categories between FOE and MOE. The DCA was
amended the first time on December 21, 1993, to allow for a better distribution of credit proceeds between FOE and MOE. For
the purpose of this exercise, which is to analyze the actual disbursements compared with the estimates at appraisal time, we
have chosen to use the allocation of the loan proceeds as agreed in the amendment of the DCA of December 21, 1993.
100% of the total credit amount (SDR13.5 million) has been disbursed.
- 20 -



OPEC Fund by Disbursement Category (In US$ million)
Category                           Appraisal     Actual   Percentage of
Estimate                Appraisal
1. Civil Works for Aden and Taiz Faculties of Education       5.80        7.02        121%
2. Equipment and Furniture for Aden and Taiz Faculties of     2.20        0.27         12%
Education
3. Architectural Consulting for Aden and Taiz Faculties of    0.70        0.30         43%
Education
Contingencies                                                 0.70        0.00          0%
TOTAL        9.40        7.59         81%
Sourcc: World Batik Loan database, December 18, 2000
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification 7/1990          1   1 ED
Preparation 11/1989            7   1 DC, 2 ED, I IMP, 2 TTRG, I
EDEC
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 11/1990             5   4 ED, IA
Supervision
4/1991                         4  2 ED, I A, I OAS
9/1991                         3   I ED, I IMP, I OAS
11/1991                        4   1 ED, 1 EC, 1 IMP, 1 OAS
2/1992                         4  2 ED, 1 IMP, I OAS                    HS                HS
7/1992                         2   1 ED, I OAS                          HS                HS
11/1992                        4  2ED, I A, I OA                        S                  S
12/1992                        1  1 A
5/1993                         5  2 ED, I EC, I IMP, I OA
7/1993                         3   1 ED, I A, 1 OA                       S                 S
2/1994                         4  2 ED, 1 ENG, I OA                      S                 S
9/1994                         3   1 ED, 1 DC, I O                      S                 U
11/1994                        2   1 ED, I GG
6/1995                         6   1 ED, I TTRG, I EDEC, I               S                 S
VOC, I PROC, I GO
10/1995                        7  2 ED, I GG, I TTRG, 1 ENG, I          S                  S
VOC, I PROC
2/1996                         4  2 ED, I IMP, I 00                      S                 S
6/1996                         3   1 OO, I IMP, I ED                     S                 S
10/1996                        6  2 ED, I 00, I IMP, I HREC, I          S                  S
EDMGT
11/1996                        4   1 ED, I GO, I EDMGT, I
HREC
5/1997                         3   1 HREC, 1 00, I PO                    S                 S
11/1997                        4   1 ED, I HREC, I 00, I PO             S                  S
2/1998                         4   l ED, I HREC, I 00, I PO              S                 S
ICR
9/1998                         1   1 ED
10/1998                       4    1 00, 1 IMP, I FA, I PO
11/1999                       3    I ED, I Po, I PA                     S                  S
A: Architect; DC: Division Chief; EC: Economist; ED: Education Specialist; EDEC: Education Economist;
- 23 -



EDMGT: Education Management Specialist; ENG: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; HREC: Human
Resources Economist; IMP: Implementation Specialist; OAS: Operations Assistant; OA: Operations
Analyst; 00: Operations Officer; PA: Program Assistant; PO: Projects Officer; PROC: Procurement
Specialist; TTRG: Teachers Training Specialist; VOC: Vocational Training Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              120.3                       176.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   40.9                        88.7
Supervision                             97.3                       213.4
ICR                                      18.7                       46.0
Total                                  277.2                      524.70
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development                O H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
3Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Gender                             O H OSU*M O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU * M  ON  O NA
Pre-service and In-service Teacher
Training institutions developed and operational
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
3 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
ZOther (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactorv, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.] Bank performance                                   Rating
Z Lending                                              OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                          O HS * S   Ou   OHU
Z Overall                                              OHS eS  Q U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
X Preparation                                          O HS  s    O u   O HU
X Government implementation performance                0 HS 0 S  *  U  0 HU
X Implementation agencyperformance                     O HS * S   OU  OHU
Z  Overall                                             OHS O S   0  U  0 HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    "Annual Technical Assistance. Progress Report 1. September 1, 1993 - August 31, 1994'
Education Development Center, Inc.
2.     "Annual Technical Assistance. Progress Report 2. September 1, 1993 - August 31, 1995"
Education Development Center, Inc.
3.     "Sana'a University. Long term fellowship training". Progress Report 1. September 1993 - May
1994"
Education Development Center, Inc.
4.     "Sana'a University. Long term fellowship training". Progress Report 2. June 1994 - September
1994"
Education Development Center, Inc.
5.     "Sana'a University. Long term fellowship training". Progress Report 5. May 1995 - August
1995"
Education Development Center, Inc.
6.     "Sana'a University. Final Report. July 1993 - August 1998
Education Development Center, Inc.
7.     "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 1. June 1995 - July 1995"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
8.     "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 2. August 1995"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
9.     "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 3. September 1995"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
10.    "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 4. October 1995"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
11.    "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 5. November 1995"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
12.    "University of Sana'a. Progress Report 6. February 1996"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
13.    "Faculty of Education - University of Sana'a. Progress Report 15. September 1996"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
14.    "Faculty of Education - University of Sana'a. Progress Report 16. October 1996"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
15.    "Faculty of Education - University of Sana'a. Progress Report 17. November 1996"
Center for Planning and Architectural Studies, Cairo, Egypt
- 27 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation
Republic of Yemen                        Republic of Yemen
Ministry of Education                     Sana'a University
Secondary Teacher Training Project
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Secondary Teacher Training Project
(IDA Credit No. 2222- Yem & OPEC Loan No. 547P)
November 2000
28



Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Secondary Teacher Training Project
(IDA Credit No. 2222- Yem & OPEC Loan No. 547P)
1.    Project Data:
IDA Credit No. 2222
Approval Date:      March 28, 1991
Signing Date:       June 12, 1991
Effectiveness:      May 5, 1992
Closing Date (initial): December 31,1998
Closing Date (revised): December 31,1999
IDA Credit Amount:  SDR13.50 million /US$19,400,000.00
OPEC Loan No. 547P
Signing Date:        October 25,1991
Closing Date (initial):   December 31,1995
Closing Date (revised.1): December 31,1997
(revised.2): December 31,1998
(revised.3): December 31,1999
(revised.4): July 30, 2000
OPEC Loan Amount:   US$9,400,000.00
YG Share     5-20% (civil work contracts)
0-20% (supervising engineer)
0% (equipment & furniture)
0% (technical assistance)
Total Amount: US$ 35,000,000.00 (Approx.)
Original Financing Plan by Component/Financier (FOEs):
Component   Sana'a        Aden  Taiz  Hodeidah    Ibb   Haiiah
C.Works      IDA           OPEC OPEC IDA             NA    NA
Fur&Equip   IDA            OPEC OPEC IDA              IDA   IDA
Modified Financing Plan by Component/Financier (FOEs):
Component   Sana'a         Aden         Taiz         Hodeidah    Ibb   Haiiah
C.Works      IDA+OPEC   IDA+OPEC   IDA+OPEC   IDA+OPEC   NA    NA
Fur&EUuip   IDA+OPEC   IDA              OPEC         IDA+OPEC   IDA   IDA
Financing Plans for other components, i.e., supervising engineer, MOE not amended.
29



2.     Project Elements:
*  Construction new buildings to accommodate the faculties of education in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
*  Rehabilitation of the college of education in Aden and construction new buildings.
*  Construction the In-service Training Institute (ITI).
* Furnishing and equipping the four faculties as well as the ITI.
*  Technical Assistance: Long and short tern Fellowship training as well as Specialist Services.
3.    Background:
3.1. Education in Yemen:
Historically, education in Yemen was conducted through Me' lama, a room in the mosque, by a class teacher
called Faqih. Mainly Arabic, Qura'n and religious subjects were taught. With the exception of a couple of
schools founded by the Turks in the 19th Century and very few schools that founded by Imam during the first
half of the 20th century, formal education in Yemen was introduced in the early 1960s. Although the
extremely scarce resources and the continuous civil wars during the first republican decade, the number of
pupils grown very rapidly. By the end of 1986 the number of pupils in all three types of schools (primary,
preparatory and secondary) has quadrupled and the number of teachers employed tripled in the same space of
time. Today, the number of schools exceeds 12,000 that receive more than three million pupils.
The first higher education institutions (Sana'a and Aden Universities) were established in the early 1970s and
continued to dominate higher education till the early 1990s where presidential resolutions issued to establish
public universities and the private sector granted licensees to invest in education. At the present the number
of universities is 15 (7 public and 8 private) with more than 152,000 students compared to only 114 students
in 1970.
3.2. Admission Policies:
The re-unification of the Yemen in 1990 brought two different educational systems. The basic and secondary
education in the North was based on 6-3-3-structure (primary, preparatory and secondary) while in the South
was based on 84-structure. The current system is based on 9-3-structure (nine years of basic education and
three of secondary). The admission policy also differed; while in the North primary and secondary schooling
was opened for all pupils who passed the general examinations, there were restrictions for secondary
education in the South and a good number of the pupils enrolled in vocational centres. Similar policy was
applied for university enrollment; while in the North, the secondary school certificate and the degree gained
by the student was taken as a main criterion, there were admission examinations in the South that controlled
the enrollment to universities. Broadly speaking, at the present, the policy that was applied in the North is
maintained with limited exceptions in some faculties that demand entrance examinations.
3.3. Teacher Training:
With the rapid growth in students numbers, demand for teachers rose accordingly. Several measures were
taken to face the demand for teachers, like a compulsory year of school teaching for high school graduates. A
one-year course for secondary school graduates and a two years for elementary school graduates were run to
meet the shortages of teachers.
Teacher training has been always a problem. To qualify teachers, several forms of training courses were
introduced as mentioned above. However, all the efforts failed to boost the numbers of qualified teachers.
Moreover, the rather limited career prospects have led to brain drain of trained teachers.
30



It is obvious that the faculties of education are at the present considered the main source for providing
teachers. All the universities in Yemen started with a faculty of education. As a result, faculties of education
established everywhere without serious considerations of what is required in terms of building, equipment
and teaching staff. Today the number of FOEs reaches 26, most of them occupy buildings that were rnainly
constructed to acconmmodate schools and the students enrollment concentrated in less economically relevant
fields. For example, Sana'a University (SU) established in 1970 with 64 students and only one faculty, the
FOE. In the acadernic year 1997/98, (2321) new students were enrolled in the FOE Sana'a and (5488)
enrolled in six FOEs located in other cities but affiliated to SU.
4.    Project Design:
The problem was determined as: lack of good academic constructions in which secondary teachers be trained,
lack of equipment by which teachers will comprehend the curriculum and do their researches, lack of
qualified academic staff to train teachers and the backwardness of the curriculum.
The Secondary Teacher Training Project was designed to meet the above mentioned requirements. Thus new
academic buildings constructed, furnished and equipped; a number of teaching staff sent to the States, UK
and Arab countries to obtain postgraduate degrees (PhD&MA); and a technical assistance to improve the
curriculum and to establish postgraduate programmes provided. Under the component "Improving Facilities",
new buildings were constructed, furnished and equipped in Sana'a, Aden, Taiz and Hodiedah to
accommodate the FOEs. In-service Training Institute was built in Sana' a, furnished and equipped. Under the
technical assistance component and improving programs; textbooks developed and curriculum upgraded; a
number of specialist services were implemented; a Master program was designed and developed; short and
long term fellowships and training, twining arrangement, capacity building, science workshops were
conducted.
5.    Faculties of Education between the Project Design and Completion Stage:
Since the approval of the credit many things were changed in the higher education in Yemen. Instead of
having only two public universities (Sana'a & Aden Universities) and no private universities at all, right now
five new public universities were established in Taiz, Hodeidah, Ibb, Dhamar and Al Mukalla along with
eight private universities. When the credit approved, all FOEs in the North were affiliated to SU. The no. of
students enrolled in FOEs was (6,845) while in the academic year 1997/98 became (21,671).
In 1990/91 the no. of students enrolled in the FOE Sana'a was (6,472) and reached (8,924) in 1997/98. The
new building designed to accommodate 2400 students. FOE Taiz: in 1990/91 the no. of students was (4791)
and reached (7150) in 1994/5. In 1998/99 the no. of students reached 10,000. The new building designed to
accommodate 4400 students. FOE Hodeidah: in 1990/91 the no. of students was (2425) and in 1995/6
reached (3199). FOE Ibb: in 1990/91 the no. of students was (891) and in 1995/6 reached (4299). FOE
Hajjah: in 1990/91 the no. of students was (373) and in 1997/8 reached (1696).
The question: Has the project been designed to accommodate these increasing numbers of students and what
were the expectations at the time of the project design? Buildings designed and equipped to accommodate a
very limited number of students. As a matter of fact, the capacity of the largest lecture room in Sana'a
building is 240 students while at the present the no. of students in one level of the faculty exceeds 1500
students. To the best utilization of the new building, especially FOE Sana'a, mainly postgraduate courses
should be run and only practical lessons using laboratories for undergraduate courses. The newly established
universities that benefited from the STTP (read taiz and Hodeidah) have no other comparable buildings to the
one built under the project, neither in term of size nor in term of equipment and furniture. Initial indications
show that officials in these two universities are in fact planning to use the FOE buildings as a core for the
university and will not hesitate to accommodate more than one faculty in the same building.
31



6.    Management Issues
6.1.  Establishment of Project Implementation Unit (PIU):
A PIU established in 1992. Although the project is mostly engineering and construction project (the technical
assistance counts for less than 10% of the credit), the project unit staffed entirely by people of educational
background. This management had a say in very serious engineering matters from design stage to
implementation. Ironically the project coordinator was the head of a committee that established to take pure
engineering decisions concerning the quality of building materials. As a result by mid 1997 the production in
civil work contracts was almost less than 50%. Progress in furniture and equipment was near nil. While
according to the contracts it was supposed that in 1997 all the project components were to be completed and
buildings be ready for operation. In this stage the project could be marked UNSATISFACTORY.
A new change, the third, in the project management took place in October 1997. What was found is almost
unbelievable. No documents, no records, no computers, troubles among all parties (contractors, employee,
consultants, PIU). The financial status of the project was unknown and no adequate documents were
available in the PIU office. Contractors used to type withdrawal applications either in their own offices or in
typing service shops. In summary no order in this project. Actually no handing over took place between the
ex-management and the new. Even the project cars not given back till this moment and the current director
uses his own car. The new management found itself in need first to bring order to the project and then build
an archive. The office organized, computers purchased and required documents collected from all relevant
parties.
6.2.    Universities Relevant Departments:
The staff in the university administration used to interfere in all project matters. All papers work was to go
through the university financial department that follows a very complicated procedure. The project was
actually run according to the governmental regulations and not to the Credit Agreement. Withdrawal
applications prepared by the PIU but at the end should be approved, signed and stamped by the financial
department in the university.
The university, although late, understood that this procedure is in conflict with the CPPR. Moreover, it
became obvious that the interference in the project affairs was one of the main reasons that led to delays.
Lately the project management authorized to solely manage the project affairs.
6.3.   Effects of Mis-management in Project Implementation:
The following table shows a comparison between work progress since signing of the contracts mid-1995 till
the end of 1997 and the progress during 1998.
Progress in Civil Work Contracts:
FOE         of progress by the end of 1997   % of progress during 1998
- two and a half years work)*  - one year work)
Sana'a       56%                        44%
Hodeidah     41%                        50%
Taiz         68%***                     24%**
Aden         38%                        42%**
32



* This progress has been actually achieved in the beginning of the project (this can be read from the
disbursement profile) which is mainly concrete works that can be produced in months.
** This progress has been achieved though the OPEC Fund suspended payments for the first nine months
of 1998.
*** This production is mainly in concrete works. It is interesting to point out that the share of mechanical and
electrical works in Taiz campus contract is only 10%, whereas is one third in Sana'a and Hodeidah
contracts.
The four campuses have been completed and handed over to beneficiaries in September 1999, except a
portion of Aden campus where electromechanical works were under installation.
Progress in Furniture and Equipment Contracts:
Till the end of 1997 no single letter of credit has been opened. During 1998 contracts were signed, L/Cs
opened and fixed furniture, Lab equipment and movable furniture delivered and installed in all campuses by
the end of 1999. The rapid progress in the implementation of all project components has improved
significantly the disbursement ratio during 1998-99.
7.    Implementation Issues:
7.1.   Is project implementation satisfactory?
There have been significant delays in the start up of the project so the project has not proceeded according to
the agreed on implementation plan. The Appraisal Document proposed that construction works to be
completed by June 1994 and equipment be installed and commissioned by September 1994. Thus program
implementation and monitory to start January 1995. In fact by the end of 1993, the tendering documents were
still not ready.
Civil Works contracts signed mid 1995 and works accomplished mid 1999. Equipment and furniture
contracts executed end of 1999. Faculties have started operating between September 1999 and January 2000.
Despite the delays, the project met its developmental objectives, especially, the institutional changes that
were expected when the project was originally approved. The achievement of economic and social benefits
would depend on good management of resources and on the sustainability of the project.
7.2.   Who to be blamed?
To answer this question, the performance of all relevant parties will be discussed hereafter.
7.2.1. Sana'a University Performance:
In addition to the problems discussed under the management issues for which the university is responsible for
the largest portion, there was a lack of:
-  Ownership from the university side.
-  For along time, there was no designated person to oversee the project.
- Timely action concerning delay in payments and delay in taking decisions in urgent matters and in
replying to the PIU letters.
-  Clear understanding of the role of PIU and the continuous interference in its job.
33



7.2.2. Consultant's Performance (supervising agency):
The engagement of a consulting engineer is one of the most important decisions to be made during the
development of an engineering project. The selection of the most qualified firm for a specific project will
result in a well-planned and designed, economical and successful project. The performance of the supervising
agency during the planning and designing stages was quite satisfactory, but during the construction phase the
supervising agency's performance was very poor and the assistance in financial matters rated zero. Reporting
was unprofessional and the response very slow.
Issues and lessons:
* The construction and furnishing of buildings expected to last two years and consequently the consultant's
contract. This contract is set at a fixed price and the period of work execution exceeded the initially
expected period because of factors beyond the consulting engineer's control. However no compensation
granted for the consultant. In the end of 1997 the consultant decided to leave the project because his
contract has expired. A lesson to be learned here; Engineer's contract and terms of payment should be
linked to work progress.
*   There was a complete lack of a mutual trust and effective communication and understanding between the
consulting engineer and the client.
* Few consulting firms are qualified to provide complete service of all projects. In this certain project it is
noticed that all the project's components have been assigned to the supervising agency except one, the
technical assistance. The certain supervising agency is good in architectural consulting services and
specifically in design, but not in preparing specs. for very sophisticated scientific equipment.
These resulted in:
- Very poor supervision.
- No clear vision and link between all components, quantities, colors as well as duplication of items.
- Lack of knowledge of the local environment, local climatic conditions and local construction
material. This resulted in a typical design for three buildings in three cities with completely different
requirements, that dictated by the location of the cities, that varied, from sea level to a 2700m altitude.
Although the university engineers participated in the design and supervision stage, their role was not
effective.
- The similarity of the three buildings exceeds the architectural form to create more serious problems;
all the mechanical, electrical, ventilation and air-conditioning systems installed in are almost the
same. While it is acceptable to have no air conditioning in Sana'a lab rooms but not to have air-
conditioning in Hodeidah is a disaster. Hundreds of ceiling fans installed in Sana'a while there is no
single fan in the very needy Hodeidah lab rooms.
- Huge Quantities of equipment that not needed.
We learn that there was a needfor associate consulting professionals to provide specialized services.
Moreover, the supervising agency staff in Yemen were mainly site engineers that do not have the technical
capability to take technical decisions. All technical and serious issues referred to Cairo where the
headquarters and qualified consultants of the contractor stationed. Definitely this was one of the reasons for
the delays.
34



7.2.3. Contractors' Performance:
Sana'a & Hodiedah Civil Works Contractors:
This contractor is a foreigner. Mainly local workmanship utilized, this is good but from the other side we
cannot here speak about technology transfer. The technical staff of this contractor is almost unqualified, there
was no single graduate engineer. However, the electromechanical works subcontractor had a good team of
experts. All implementation plans presented by the contractor never fulfilled.
Taiz Civil Works Contractor:
This contractor is a local. He is good in civil works but not in electromechanical. He has a financial capacity
but not technical. All implementation plans presented by the contractor never fulfilled.
Aden Civil Works Contractor:
This contractor is a local. He has neither financial nor technical capacity. All implementation plans presented
by the contractor never fulfilled.
Furniture and Equipment:
All suppliers well done, delivered and installed all items under their contracts. They have very high technical
and financial capacities except the local one who was contracted to import the movable furniture. He has
neither financial nor technical capacity
Technical Assistance:
It is a very well designed component to strengthen the Yemeni University faculty, the academic programmes
and the institutions. The universities that benefited from the technical assistance are limited taking into
account the tens of FOEs spread throughout the country.
The products were submitted in hard copy only. As a result it was difficult to circulate these materials to all
concerned. There was inadequate follow up for students. A number of MA students enrolled in PhD
programmes without knowledge of the contractor. This resulted in additional financial commitments and
actually on the account of other posts. However this is the most sustainable component, especially in case, all
fellows come back and their institutions make good use of their knowledge.
7.2.4. The Bank & OPEC Performance:
Since the change of the project management in October 1997, the performance of the Bank and in particular
of the Resident Mission has been considered excellent; follow up, prompt response and very effective
decisions. The headquarters, especially the disbursement office, response was a bit slow till a new
disbursement officer took over.
It is worth to point out the following:
1.    The thing that could lead to a disaster is the use of funds allocated to Sana'a & Hodeidah (IDA's
financed components) to components financed by the OPEC Fund (Taiz & Aden). This amount exceeded
US$3.70 mill. Ironically OPEC had no idea about this and when OPEC people came to evaluate the project it
was found that by the end of 1997, only 9% of the Proceeds disbursed. Consequently they assumed that this
reflects the physical progress. As a result they considered the project risky and suspended the Loan till a
delegation traveled to Vienna and explained to them the matter.
So far it is known that IDA's supervision missions used to provide OPEC a copy of the reports
drafted after finalizing trips. This also reflects that OPEC has no follow up at all, they actually considered the
WB as the administrator of the Loan. The OPEC Fund accepted initially to pay the sum of $3.70 mill. Back
35



to IDA's account. But the Board of Directors found that it is not in their regulations to pay money back. The
alternative solution was to reallocate the Proceeds so that Sana'a & Hodeidah included under OPEC Loan as
stated in the revised financing plan.
2.    While it was clear that the physical progress was very slow and not going according to time schedule,
the WB did not interfere effectively, although the type of the problem was known (mismanagement), leaving
time running out. However, it is to emphasize here that, without the support of the World Bank Office in
Sana'a and particularly the two last task mangers it was almost impossible to achieve progress.
8.    Tragedies:
In addition to the misfortune in this project, serious accidents occurred and resulted in death and injury of a
number of people who worked for the project:
- The Manager of Taiz campus was killed in a car accident in Hodiedah-Sana'a road.
- Three workers were killed and eight severely injured in Hodeidah site where they fell down with
reinforced concrete beam.
- The chairman of Lombardini SPA was killed and the manager of Lombardini-Yemen was severely
injured in Hodiedah-Sana'a road.
-  A bomb was found in the car of Sana'a campus manager.
- The Sana'a campus manager was shot by an armed man.
9.    Lesson to be learned:
In addition to the lessons mentioned earlier, measures should be taken to secure a smooth implementation:
-  Beneficiary should participate actively in the preparation stage, this will help him feel the ownership
of the project.
-  Plots of lands to be ready and roughly fenced before processing contracts.
-  General Utilities (power, water, telephone connections) to be identified at the early stages of
construction.
-  Technicians to be trained for operating facilities and equipment after handing over.
-  Commitments to allocate budget for maintenance and project sustainability.
- Any trained staff under the project should come back and work for the project.
-  Selection of technically and financially capable consultants, contractors and suppliers.
-  Selection of qualified staff to run the project
-  Monitoring stage is very crucial and a mechanism should be established for follow up.
Few problems were also faced during the implementation of the project and should be addressed before
initiating new projects:
- Overlapping the clearance responsibility and the undefined role of MOPD, MOF and COCA.
- Variations in local & IDA procurement procedures.
-  Taxes issues that were not taken into account since the beginning of the project.
-  The unclear role of the WB as an administrator of the OPEC Fund Loan.
36



10.    Conclusion:
For the first time the faculties of education in the four main cities and universities as well have well-equipped
buildings with well-trained staff. For a long time the FOEs depended fully on the faculties of sciences'
laboratories and staff. The student of Hajjah FOE had to travel to Hodiedah and Sana'a to do their practicals
and the students of Ibb FOE did the same.
The FOEs should be proud to have now up to date equipment, the buildings contain the most sophisticated
systems. However, it is to emphasize that with the current practices and the lack of vision and strategy for
higher education in general and for teacher training in particular, the project adds no value.
It seems unclear to the management of these educational institutes the purpose and the objectives of
designing such an entire project with various components and the efforts of the government to get funds from
international organization as well as the government effective contribution for accomplishing the project. So
far Lab equipment have not been used after a year of installation; a number of trained academic staff under
the technical assistance component did not come back; others came back and left to the Gulf States. Again
here to express worries if this project will make a difference or the hangars were and still doing the job.
37



