Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2222 YEM
               (Secondary Teacher Training Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 12, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2222 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund (the
OPEC Fund) a loan in an amount equivalent to about $9,300,000 (the
OPEC Fund Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Fund Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "COE's" means the Colleges of Education of the Univer-
sity of Aden, a semi-autonomous governmental authority established
and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 23 of 1975, and any
successor thereto;
      (b)   "FOE's" means the Faculties of Education of the
University of Sana'a, a semi-autonomous governmental authority
established and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 118 of 1974,
and any successor thereto;
      (c)"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
      (d)   "MOHE" means the Ministry of Higher Education of the
Borrower; and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Page  3
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A, Part B (1),
Part B (2), Part B (3)(i) and (ii), Part C (3)(i) and Part C (4) of
the Project through the University of Sana'a and Part B (3)(iii),
Part C (1), Part C (2), Part C (3)(ii) and Part C (3)(iii) of the
Page  4
Project through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, including the University of Sana'a and MOE
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
Page  5
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The OPEC Fund Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by March 31, 1992, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the OPEC Fund Loan shall have
                        been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                        the OPEC Fund Agreement, or
                  (B)   the OPEC Fund Loan shall have become due
                        and payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
                  sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
                  not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such agree-
                  ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                  available to the Borrower from other sources on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
                  tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b)(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the OPEC Fund Agreement has been duly
signed by the Borrower and the OPEC Fund.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  CENPLAN                   2266 CENPLAN YE
                  Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                  By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               6,300,000        80%
     under Parts A
     (1), A (2) and
     C (1) of the
     Project
Page  7
(2)  Equipment,                2,400,000        100% of foreign
     furniture,                                 expenditures,
     educational                                100% of local
     materials,                                 expenditures
     books and                                  (ex-factory
     copyrights                                 cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'
     services
     (a) for supervision         300,000        100% of foreign
         of construction                        expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (b) under Part B          1,200,000        100% of foreign
         and Parts C (1),                       expenditures and
         C (2) and C (3)                        90% of local
         of the Project                         expenditures
(4)  Fellowships and           1,900,000        100% of foreign
     training under                             expenditures and
     Parts B and C                              90% of local
     of the Project                             expenditures
(5)  Operation and               500,000        30%
     maintenance
     under Part A (3)
     of the Project
(6)  Travel and                  100,000        85% of local
     subsistence                                expenditures
     allowances
     under Parts B,
     C (1) and C (3)
     of the Project
(7)  Unallocated                 800,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                13,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
Page  8
(a) increasing the number of qualified secondary school teachers,
especially women and teachers in rural areas; (b) improving the
effectiveness of the secondary school educational system; and (c)
strengthening the Borrower's organization and planning capabilities
for the secondary school educational system.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Pre-Service Training Facilities
      1.    Construction. Construction, equipping and furnishing of:
            educational facilities at the Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah
            FOE's, and dormitories for women students at the Sana'a,
            Taiz and Hodeidah FOE's.
      2.    Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation, equipping and furnishing
            of: existing facilities at the Sana'a and Taiz FOE's,
            the Aden COE, and existing dormitories for women
            students at the Aden COE and equipping and furnishing of
            facilities at the Ibb and Hajja FOE's.
      3.    Maintenance. Provision of operation and maintenance
            services at educational facilities for the training of
            secondary education teachers and administrators.
Part B:     Pre-Service Curriculum and Resources
      1.    Curriculum. Provision of technical assistance, training,
            fellowships, seminars and materials: (i) to improve the
            curriculum for training of secondary teachers; (ii) to
            establish one-year certification programs at the Sana'a,
            Taiz and Hodeidah FOE's; and (iii) to establish and
            monitor the masters degree program at the Sana'a FOE.
      2.    Textbooks. Provision of technical assistance and
            fellowships for the development and pilot testing of
            textbooks in priority areas, including environmental
            sciences and acquisition of publication rights of
            textbooks for secondary education teachers.
      3.    Science Education. (i) Provision of technical assis-
            tance, equipment and materials to the University of
            Sana'a for the establishment of science resource centers
            and science method laboratories and for the development,
            testing and dissemination of other science instructional
            materials; (ii) provision of fellowships to the Univer-
            sity of Sana'a for upgrading Yemeni science educators;
            and (iii) provision of technical assistance to the MOE
            for development of the curriculum for teaching of
            science in secondary level schools.
Part C:     In-Service Training and Institutional Development
      1.    In-Service Training. Strengthening of MOE's in-service
            training capabilities through construction, equipping
            and furnishing of an in-service training institute and
            equipping and furnishing of regional training centers;
            and establishment and monitoring of a program for in-
            service training of secondary teachers and
            administrators.
      2.    Interministerial Coordination. Establishment of an
            advisory group for trained manpower to provide inter-
            ministerial coordination in planning for manpower
            training, including forecasting of national demand for
            teachers and formulation of appropriate policies to meet
            such demands.
      3.    Educational Research and Practice. (i) Preparation by
            the University of Sana'a of a study to assess long-term
Page  9
            tertiary education needs; (ii) carrying out educational
            research and pilot projects by the MOE to stimulate
            innovation in education; and (iii) dissemination by the
            MOE of the results of such educational research.
      4.    Project Unit. Provision of fellowships to assist the
            University of Sana'a's project implementation unit to
            acquire skills in international procurement, project
            accounting and other project management skills.
                              *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                          SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
furniture shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic
of Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded in accor-
dance with the procedures described in Part A (1) hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
Page  10
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B, Part
C (1), Part C (2) and Part C (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the project implementation unit
established within the University of Sana'a with organization,
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
enrollment at each FOE and COE shall not exceed the capacity of such
institution.
3.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
any person who has not graduated from a FOE or COE will be required
to complete the one-year certification program to be established
under Part B (1) of the Project prior to appointment as a secondary
school teacher.
4.    The Borrower shall cause the University of Sana'a to require
students of the program to be established under Part B (1)(iii) of
the Project to complete a prescribed number of academic credits in
order to obtain a Master's Degree.
5.    In carrying out Part B (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall
obtain copyrights prior to the printing, translation or adaptation
of textbooks and other educational materials.
6.    MOE shall maintain the High Supervision Committee to select
the educational research and pilot projects to be carried out under
Part C (3) with organization and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association. The Borrower shall cause the High Supervision
Committee to select such educational research and pilot projects in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association. Prior to
carrying out of any educational research and pilot projects
estimated to cost more than US$10,000 equivalent, the Borrower shall
refer such project to the Association for its approval.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that an aggregate amount in local
currency equivalent to at least $250,000 shall be allocated in the
1995 budgets of the FOE's and the COE's and that an aggregate amount
in local currency equivalent to at least $500,000 shall be allocated
annually thereafter for operation and maintenance of Project
facilities.
8.    Commencing in 1995, the Borrower shall ensure that amounts
required for purchase of consumables to be used in training
programs, satisfactory to the Association, are allocated in MOE's
annual budgets.
9.    The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1992, or such later date as
Page  11
the Association may agree, cause the MOE to establish the in-service
training institute included in Part C (1) of the Project with an
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association. In order
to ensure that said institute shall enjoy autonomy in the carrying
out of its academic activities, said institute shall function
directly under the Deputy Minister for Training and Qualifications,
with oversight provided by an advisory committee with organization
satisfactory to the Association.
10.   For the purpose of ensuring proper coordination in the
formulation of national policies on manpower training, the Borrower
shall, by March 31, 1992, or such later date as the Association may
agree, establish an advisory group for trained manpower with
organization and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
which shall include representatives of the following Ministries and
Universities: MOE, MOHE, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Resources, Ministry of Planning and Development, Ministry
of Civil Service and Administrative Reform, the University of Sana'a
and the University of Aden.
11.   For the purpose of ensuring proper coordination in the
formulation of national policies on secondary teacher training,
including admissions policies and deployment incentives, the
Borrower shall, by March 31, 1992, or such later date as the
Association may agree, establish an education subcommittee with
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
12.   The Borrower shall cause the University of Sana'a to employ,
by March 31, 1992, or such later date as the Association may agree,
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, consultants to assist in carrying out Part B of the
Project.
13.   The Borrower shall cause the MOE to employ, by March 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Association may agree, in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
consultants to assist in carrying out Part C (1), Part C (2) and
Part C (3) of the Project.
14.   The Borrower shall cause the University of Sana'a, by
January 31, 1994, or such later date as the Association may agree,
to review with the Association the findings and recommendations of
the study to be carried out under Part C (3) of the Project to
assess long-term tertiary education and the measures proposed by the
University of Sana'a to be taken on the basis of such recommenda-
tions. Thereafter, on the basis of such recommendations and exchange
of views, the University of Sana'a shall carry out a tertiary
education action program in accordance with a timetable agreed to by
the Association, the Borrower and the University of Sana'a.
15.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than January 31,
1994, or such later date as the Association may agree, provide the
Association with detailed information concerning project activities
in preparation for a mid-term exchange of views on the progress
achieved in carrying out of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
Page  12
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
Page  13
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
