Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2883-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SECOND MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
October 15, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorIatIon.



-CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
.fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977. On October 2,
1980, the peso traded at Mex$ 23 per US dollar.
ABBREVIATIONS
AWS Companies -  Autonomous Municipal or State Water Supply and
Sewerage Companies
BANOBRAS       -  National Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
CFE            -  Federal Electricity Commission
(Comision Federal de Electricidad)
COPLAMAR       -  Committee for Coordination for Depressed Areas
(Comite de Coordinacion y Planeacion para Zonas Marginadas)
CUCs           -  Coordination Agreements between Federal and State Governments
(Convenios Unicos de Coordinacion)
FIFAPA         -  Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works
(Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y
y Alcantarillado)
IRR           -  Incremental Rate of Return
PIDER          -  Integrated Program for Rural Development
(Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural)
PNH            -  National Hydraulic Plan
(Plan Nacional Hidraulico)
PNDU           -  National Plan for Urban Development
(Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Urbano)
SAHOP         -  Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SARH           -  Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SCF            -  Financial Coordinating Unit - Directorate of Construction of
Water and Sewerage Systems (SAHOP)
(Sistema de Coordinacion Financiera - Direccion de Construccion
de Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado)
SPP            -  Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
VAT            -  Tax on Value Added
(Impuesto al Valor Agregado)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND MEDIUM SIZE CITIES - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos S.A. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:     Municipal or State Autonomous Water Supply and Sewerage
Companies (AWS Companies)
Amount:             US$125 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
9.25 percent interest per annum.
Lending Terms to
Beneficiaries:   Payable in 15 years, after a grace period equal to the
construction period (from 2 to 3-1/2 years), at not less
than 9 percent interest per annum.
Prolect
Description:      The project would extend water supply services to about
1.2 million people and sewerage services to nearly 1.3
million in several medium size cities. Water production
facilities and sewer interceptors and outfalls have been
designed to provide a water supply coverage of 90 percent
and a sewerage coverage of 80 percent to the population of
these cities by 1995. The project would include construc-
tion of sewage treatment plants, where necessary, to keep
the pollution level of effluents within acceptable standards.
It would promote metering of house connections and would
include leak detection and control programs. A technical
assistance program to the local water and sewerage companies
would help improve the operational and service capabilities
of these institutions. About 36 percent of the additional
population to be served with water supply and 34 percent of
the additional population to be served with sewerage are
expected to be urban poor consumers, whose incomes are
lower than one-third of the national per capita income.
Special Risks:      The construction of the works faces no special risks.
There is a possibility of delays in the achievement
of improved managerial and financial performance of
the beneficiary companies. These risks are considered
acceptable given the commitment of the Government to
the development of the sector and the technical assistance
that SAHOP will provide to the companies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their otficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost
of Subprojects
---US$ Million Equivalent---
Local   Foreign    Total    %
Water Works                              55        46        101      47
(Subprojects Submitted)                 (39)      (32)       (71)   (33)
(Subprojects to be Prepared)            (16)      (14)       (30    (14)
Sewerage Works                           54        45         99      46
(Subprojects Submitted)                 (38)      (32)       (70)   (33)
(Subprojects to be Prepared)            (16)      (13)       (29)   (13)
Development of Accounting System,
Engineering and Administration            8         6         14       7
Base Cost                               117        97        214    100
Physical Contingencies                   17        14         31
Price Escalation                         37        15         52
Total Project Cost                      172 1/   125 1/    297
Value Added Tax                          21         -         21
Total Cost                              193 I/   125 1/    318
Financing Plan:                                      US$ million         %
IBRD                                125            39
Federal Government                  193            61
318           100
Estimated                             ----------US$ Million Equivalent-----
Disbursements:                      Bank FY81    82         83       84      85
Annual             5           27        47       36       10
Cumulative         5           32        79      115      125
Rate of Return:    The aggregate rate of return based on incremental revenues
and costs in the seven cities for which feasibility studies
were available after post-appraisal (which account for
71 percent of the estimated total project costs) is estimated
at 13 percent. The economic rate of return is expected to
be considerably higher, because of benefits not reflected
in revenues.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 3026-ME, dated October 7, 1980
1/   Because of rounding, the numbers do not fully add up.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. with the guaran-
tee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$125 million to help
finance a Second Medium Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The
loan will have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest
at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was therefore little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as they received only limited benefits from infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of
almost 3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s, made social equity difficult
to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic growth was not sufficient to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force in productive employment and by the
1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either relatively unproductive
and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.



5.        During the mid-1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to
2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Administration inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 29 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to US$1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.6 billion (or 2.8 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$4.6 billion (under 3.8 percent
of CDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated
at about 7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in
1977.



- 3 -
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of expansionary policies with investments
increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These
investments call for continued increase in imports of capital and intermediate
goods. The import program will put a severe strain on the exi ring infrastruc-
ture capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which bottlenecks
already exist. Additional strain on the transport system is likely to come
from the large imports of grains as a result of a bad crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in preventing
inflation from increasing much above 20 percent may come from the wage area.
The agreed increase in the minimum wage for 1980 was about 21 percent and came
after three consecutive years of decline in real wages. As indicated in para.
11 below, in the course of the year inflation has increased more rapidly than
the expected 20 percent. This has caused serious concern among the trade
unions. Bargaining of new national contract is now being based on substan-
tially higher percentage increases than the one implied in the minimum wage
adjustment.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The cumulative increase in the consumer
price index in 1980 through July 31, of about 18 percent, resulting in part
from the newly introduced value-added tax, may adversely affect expectations
about inflation. At the same time, the need to expand public investment in
the key infrastructure sectors and to maintain in real terms the current
programs in the energy sectors, leaves relatively little scope for signifi-
cant adjustments in the level of public expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 60 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The stated goal of
the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.7 million bbl/day
in 1981, and to more or less maintain it at a level that will accommodate
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day; by mid-year a production target of 2.3 mil-
lion bbl/day had already been reached. The Mexican Government is unwilling to
exceed this limit for fear of becoming increasingly a classical "oil producer
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even
at this production level, the challenge for Mexico is how to mobilize its
resources--its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help
resolve its long term development problems. The most serious of these relate
to poverty, unemployment, stagnation in agriculture, and urban-regional
imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)



-4-
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes of less than one-third the national average. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poot are principally employed),
and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly in industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however,
the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young
people in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a
difficult goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its
consideration several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be
short-term palliatives and which would preempt resources which would otherwise
be available for investment in employment creating activities or for improving
educational or health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however the present
levels of under employment and unemployment are likely to remain.
16.       A National Employment Plan was published early last year.  It
calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
in both urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and to make better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of
hidden and open unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s, and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive new large-
scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity (and income
per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present administration
has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with agriculture in
order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy emphasizes
production increases through a balanced development program. Greater emphasis
is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration, and credit to develop



the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential. Programs to rehabilitate
existing irrigation serving nearly one million ha are underway. Small-scale
irrigation development is being promoted. Construction of new large-scale
irrigation units continues, but with a smaller portion of budget resources
than in the past. The banking system is being encouraged to provide greater
support to Q.;ricultural production and processing programs. These initiatives
should lead to an acceleration of production growth, more equal development
opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions
of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports.
A National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and their implications for employment.
Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas, including
efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods as
well as exports of many different manufactured products. While most of the above
industries are known for their capital intensity, they are expected to promote
secondary industries with considerable employment opportunities. These will be
enterprises producing secondary petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal
parts and components for capital goods. Tourism export earnings are also ex-
pected to increase substantially.
20.       The main problems for the Mexican economy in the years to come remain
the reconciliation of a high growth rate with a relative price stability and a
larger participation of the low income groups in the expanding wealth of the
nation. The National Development Plan, published last April, marks the final
step in the planning activities carried out by the present administration and
places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated in a number of
sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition to presenting
a macroeconomic picture of the development prospects, the National Development
Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve the various
economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but call for
a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration. The growth
with low inflation would pose difficult challenges of adjusting prices of public
goods and services without undermining the existing consensus of the country,
and improving income distribution would call for policies that encourage labor
intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without slowing down
modernization of the economy.



- 6 -
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1979.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports but
also as a function of repayment of some of the debt contracted on the least
favorable terms.  Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.9 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s.  The Bank currently holds about 6.1 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on con-ventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
22.       As of August 31, 1980, Mexico had received 65 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,220.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 38 loans totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
presently holds US$3,578.0 million of which US$1,616.9 million have not yet
been disbursed. Some 43 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development (22 loans for US$1,841.4 million), 17 percent for power (12
loans for US$704.8 million), 16 percent for transportation (13 loans for
US$666.7 million), and 18 percent for industry (10 loans for US$747.5 million);
the remaining 6 percent has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism
(US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of August 31, 1980 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.        Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken action to accelerate imple-
mentation of the projects. Adequate budget finance has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. The Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention in
Mexico has been focused on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on
most of the Bank-assisted projects and plans have been formulated to strengthen
execution of those projects where improvement is still needed. The effective-
ness of these actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91
million was disbursed to Miexico, in FY79 the disbursements totalled US$233
million and in FY80 disbursements further increased to US$401 million or
40 percent of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Ocoroni Irrigation Project (Report No. P-2881-ME of September 24,
1980).



-7-
IFC Operations
24.       As of August 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$535.2 million, of which US$393.8
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of August 31, 1980, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
25.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; and
(iii) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances. Therefore, the Bank
is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority that help the
rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and
production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
26.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
the productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of
irrigation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of
small farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricul-
tural development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under
cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities
in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has
made thirteen loans in FYs74-80 totalling US$1,497 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed agriculture, rural
development, and support services are in preparation. The Ocoroni irrigation
project is under consideration by the Executive Directors; a rainfed agricul-
tural development project and an integrated rural development project have
been appraised.
27.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
A second small and medium scale industries project was approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1980. The Executive Directors recently approved a project
for the mining sector which up to now has received insufficient resources from
the financial system. A capital goods industry project is under discussion
for possible Bank support.



- 8 -
28.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at achieving suitable pricing mechanisms
to help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. A
highway sector project was approved by the Executive Directors in FY79.  A
fourth railway project has been appraised and is being processed for submission
to the Executive Directors. The Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76)
water supply projects have been instrumental in the establishment of specialized
institutions for efficient provision of drinking water and in the pricing of
water at levels more closely related to costs; the project now considered
would be the third operation of the Bank in this sector.
29.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activities
in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National Urban
Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities in
operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet the
needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key regional
infrastructure in selected priority cities. A loan to assist in the develop-
ment of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast, was approved
by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban development project
for the southeast region has been appraised.
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totalling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the
Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure, the Integrated Program for Rural Development (PIDER), agricul-
tural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries, and hotel
development. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Urban/Rural Setting
31.       The mid-1979 population of Mexico was estimated at 67.9 million,
of which 63 percent were urban and 37 percent rural (communities with less
than 2,500 inhabitants). Total population is growing at an estimated rate
of 2.9 percent and urban population at 4.6 percent annually. The overall
growth rate has been declining from 3.5 percent, which prevailed in the 1960s,
partly as a result of a major ongoing family planning program initiated in
1972. The Mexican authorities have the ambitious goal of reducing population
growth to 1 percent per annum by the year 2000.



- 9 -
32.       The provision of public services in Mexico presents special problems
due to the geographic distribution of the population. The Mexico City
Metropolitan Area, where water resources are severely limited, has an estimated
population of 14.8 million, growing at 6.2 percent annually; at the other
extreme, the rural population is dispersed in almost 100,000 small centers.
33.       The National Plan for Urban Development (PNDU), approved by
Presidential decree of May 1978, aims at improving the population/resource
mismatch by controlling growth in the three main centers (Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey), and promoting development in a number of in-
termediate cities. In an effort to decentralize the economy, these inter-
mediate cities are to serve as growth poles in a number of regions. These
regions form priority zones and are to be particularly favored with public
investments. Other centers, with a full range of public services, are
planned to serve surrounding rural populations. The general policies out-
lined in PNDU are now being translated into specific programs at regional,
state and municipal levels. For the purposes of required water supply and
sewerage investments, SAHOP has worked in close contact with the local
authorities, and has prepared a 1980-82 investment program for urban areas.
These cities are growing at an estimated rate of 4.2 percent per annum and
are in urgent need of improvement and expansion of their basic services.
Service Levels
34.       It was estimated that by mid-1979, about 54 percent of the urban
population (excluding the Mexico City Federal District) had access to potable
water through house connections and about 42 percent were connected to sewerage
systems. Service levels in the Mexico City Federal District were 83 percent
for water supply and 80 percent for sewerage. Service levels in rural areas
were lower, with about 38 percent of the population having access to water
supply through house connections while access to waste water disposal systems
was almost non-existent.
35.       The percentage of total population served with water connections
has risen slightly from 49 percent in 1970 to 53 percent in 1979, a substantial
increase within the percentage of rural population served (21 percent to 38
percent) being offset by a significant decrease (65 percent to 54 percent) in
service to the urban population (excluding the Federal District). The total
population percentage served with sewerage systems in 1979 was 32 percent
while it was 35 percent in 1970. It is estimated that about 21 million urban
dwellers did not have access to waste water disposal systems in 1979.
36.       These declining service levels pose significant threats to the health
of the population of Mexico's rapidly growing cities. Heavy migration of low
income rural population towards urban areas has not been accompanied by the
necessary investments in the sector, resulting in lack of safe water availabil-
ity for approximately 17 million people, mainly in low income areas.



- 10 -
Sector Organization
37.       At the national level, the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH) is responsible for water resource planning and administration.
SARH has retained direct control of water supply projects where competing
demands on scarce water resources must be arbitrated. It has delegated the
development of other water sources and construction and operation of non-
controversial urban and rural water supply schemes to the Secretariat of Human
Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) and of hydroelectric projects to the
Federal Electricity Commission (CFE).
38.        SAHOP was formed in 1976 by adding to the Secretariat of Public
Works certain "Directorates" (water supply and sewerage construction, opera-
tions, desalination schemes and Federal Juntas) from the Secretariat of Water
Resources. SAHOP is in charge of planning and establishing guidelines, norms
and policies for the water supply sector. Additionally, SAHOP is responsible
for the design and construction of water and sewerage works in urban and
rural areas when such works are partially financed (or require loan guarantees)
from the Federal Government. In cases where no Federal financing is involved,
the entities which would undertake any water or sewerage project have to
obtain SAHOP's approval. SAHOP is also responsible for the implementation of
an ongoing national water supply and sewerage training program and for the
operation of some 1,200 water supply and sewerage systems through "Federal
Juntas".
39.        In the initial years, SAHOP experienced difficulties in discharging
its responsibilities but the situation has now improved considerably. Recent
developments include the adoption of guidelines for preparation of feasibility
studies and engineering design, and the creation of a planning division to
coordinate sector activities at all levels and developing strategies to meet
the sector goals. SAHOP is committed to a gradual decentralization process
and has established offices in all the states to work in coordination with
state and municipal authorities in developing water supply and sewerage
projects.
40.       At the state and municipal levels, local entities have varying degrees
of autonomy in the operation of water supply and sewerage systems. In most
cases, they are restricted to operating and maintaining those systems under
the supervision of the SAHOP offices or State Boards. SAHOP is in the process
of transferring the operations of federal water and sewerage systems to auto-
nomous local entities while retaining sector planning and programming responsi-
bilities at the central level. SAHOP is also assessing a program for the
creation of statewide water companies which would be in charge of operations
and -- eventually -- of construction of urban and rural water supply and
sewerage systems. This program is consistent with the National Plan for
Urban Development (PNDU) and would aim at developing -- in addition to local
water companies -- strong state owned water companies that would operate in
rural areas and cities too small to have the capacity for viable companies.
SAHOP has requested the Bank to assist in the creation of these companies,
which are expected to be operative by 1981.



- 11 -
Sector Financing
41.       SARH and SAHOP finance their projects through funds from the Federal
Government, with the intention of recovering investments in 10 to 20 years.
In most cases their loans are interest-free; in some cases, the debt is
converted into a grant after a certain number of years. In addition to this,
the Federal Government transfers funds to the State Governments under the
CUCs (Coordination Agreements between Federal and State Governments) and other
programs such as COPLAMAR (Committee for Development of Depressed Areas) and
PIDER. The CUCs are instruments for distributing federal funds as grants to
the states and are intended for a wide range of investments, mostly in the
rural areas, including water supply and sewerage projects.
42.       The Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS) has been
financing municipal works through several lending windows at different interest
rates. BANOBRAS' regular credits bear annual interest rates of 18 percent,
and it has a soft window -- the Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal
-- which lends at 4.5 percent per annum, while FIFAPA lends at a rate of 9
percent per annum.
Sector Objectives and Programs
43.       Mexico's long-term goals aim at providing -- by the year 2000 -
95 percent and 70 percent of urban and rural populations respectively with
piped water, and 80 percent and 42 percent of urban and rural populations
respectively, with sanitation services. Intermediate targets for the year
1982 have been developed by SAHOP for urban areas, excluding the Federal
District. These targets are: provision of water to an additional population
of 8 million and sewerage to 5 million, reaching a coverage of about 70 percent
in water supply and 50 percent in sewerage. For rural areas, a recently
approved SAHOP/COPLAMAR program would provide piped water to 8.2 million
additional inhabitants and would rehabilitate existing systems to benefit 6.8
million people by 1982. With the implementation of these programs, 66 percent
of the rural population would be receiving safe drinking water.
44.       The investment programs for the sector in the period 1980-82 amount
to Mex$ 18 billion (US$800 million) and Mex$ 20.7 billion (US$920 million) for
urban and rural areas, respectively. About 90 percent of these investments
would be financed by the Federal Government, more than doubling the average
annual financing for the sector (excluding the Federal District) in the past
decade. Financing for the sector by state or municipal authorities is not
significant and has represented less than 5 percent of sector investment in
recent years.
Bank's Role within the Sector
45.       The Bank has been assisting Mexico's water supply sector since 1973,
when a US$90 million loan was made for a bulk water supply project for the
Mexico City metropolitan area. A US$40 million loan was made in January 1976
to support a US$100 million project for water supply and sewerage for medium-
size cities, and the proposed project would be a second operation for similar
urban centers. In addition the Bank has participated in the financing
of water supply and sewerage components of three rural development projects,
two tourism projects and an urban development project.



- 12 -
46.       The first Bank assisted medium-size cities water supply and sewerage
project of January 1976 had a slow start. The basic concept of least-cost
alternative for project design and of cost recovery from users met with
considerable resistance from the municipal authorities, who took almost two
years to be convinced on these features. Final design of acceptable sub-
projects also took longer than anticipated. Construction started in late 1977
and the project is now expected to be completed by December 1981. As of August
31, 1980 the loan had been fully committed on seven sub-projects and US$16.2
million (41 percent of the total loan) disbursed. Learning from this experience,
the managers of the Investment Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works
(FIFAPA) mounted a major program to familiarize the local authorities with the
basic concepts. Also, FIFAPA, with the cooperation of Secretariat of Human
Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP), has been assisting the local authorities
in a number of cities in sub-project preparation. As a consequence, about
70 percent of the proposed second project is covered by investment proposals
already prepared and scrutinized by FIFAPA and it is likely that the problems
of the first project will be avoided in this second one.
47.       The financial performance of the seven beneficiary entities under
the ongoing loan 1186-ME is satisfactory and all of them are in compliance
with the financial covenants. Federal funds are being provided in a timely
manner.
48.       As noted in paragraph 35, water supply and sewerage services
in the medium size cities of Mexico deteriorated in the decade of the 1970s.
The Government has prepared an ambitious investment program to reverse this
trend. The Bank is assisting the borrower (BANOBRAS) in building FIFAPA as a
sound institution at the national level to oversee the sectoral development.
By continuing its participation in financing water supply and sewerage projects
for medium-size cities, through FIFAPA, the Bank would be contributing to:
(a) the extension of water supply and sewerage services in priority
areas, selected under the National Plan for Urban Development
(PNDU);
(b) the strengthening of the sector institutions, mainly at local
levels, and the improvement of their operational efficiency; and
(c) adoption of improved financial policies by the local water
authorities resulting in reduced Federal financing for the
development of the commercially viable portion of the sector,
thus freeing resources to expand services to the poor segments
of the urban and rural population.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
49.       Following a Government request, three Bank missions have visited
Mexico since early 1979 in order to asist FIFAPA/SAHOP in the identification
and subsequent preparation of the proposed project, which was appraised in



- 13 -
March 1980. A mission visited Mexico in mid-June 1980 to review progress in
the preparation of subprojects. The project would be the Bank's third operation
in the sector and the second operation through BANOBRAS/FIFAPA aimed at helping
to develop water supply and sewerage services in medium-size cities throughout
Mexico. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Medium Size Cities
Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (No. 3026-ME, dated October 7, 1980) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations with the
Borrower, Guarantor and Executing Agency took place in Washington, D.C.
on September 19 and 20 1980. The Mexican delegation was headed by Mr. Rodrigo
Sanchez Mujica, Deputy General Manager of Finances of BANOBRAS. A supplemental
project data'sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary of
special conditions is presented as Annex III.
Project Description
50.       The prQject would extend water supply services to about 1.2 million
people and sewerage services to about 1.3 million people in several medium
size cities of Mexico. Acceptable investment proposals, which account for
71 percent of the total project cost, have already been prepared for the
following cities (see Map):
1979
City               State            Population          Proposed Works
1.   Monclova           Coahuila             254,100         Sewerage
2.   Nogales            Sonora               115,100         Water
3.   Tepic              Nayarit              121,400         Water and Sewerage
4.   Toluca             Mexico               240,000         Water and Sewerage
5.   Cd. Juarez         Chihuahua            671,500         Water and Sewerage
6.   Matamoros          Tamaulipas           214,500         Water and Sewerage
7.   Queretaro          Queretaro            315,000         Water and Sewerage
Investment proposals for three additional cities, which would account for
the balance of the project, are in an advance stage of preparation.
51.       Subproject cities have been selected by FIFAPA/SAHOP in accordance
with the priorities set forth in the National Plan for Urban Development.
Service coverage levels lower than the national average for urban areas and
the existence of idle capacity allowing increase in coverages by complementary
investments are factors taken into account for the selection. In addition,
all subprojects financed under the loan would be subject to the following
requirements: (a) all selected subprojects would have feasibility studies
prepared under SAHOP guidelines; and (b) the proposed works represent the
least-cost alternative for meeting the demand for water and sewerage services.
As a condition of disbursement for the respective subprojects, establishment
of autonomous water and sewerage companies would be required (Section 5.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). All the sub-loan agreements under the project are
expected to be signed by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.02 and Schedule 5, para. B
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
52.       Works in the cities covered by the project comprise the following:
(a) provision of new production facilities and improvements to the
existing ones to increase water production capacity to meet
demands up to 1995;
(b)  chlorination of all water supplies to provide bacteriologically
safe water by 1984;
(c) construction of transmission pipelines to connect the new
production facilities to the distribution systems and provision
of additional storage capacity;
(d) extension of water distribution networks to areas without service
and imiprovement to the existing water distribution systems;
(e) construction of metered house connections and installation of meters
in existing unmetered connections to cover about 95 percent of all
connections;
(f) acquisition and installation of production meters and meter repair
shops and implementation of leak detection and control programs to
reduce unaccounted-for water to about 30 percent of the water
entering the distribution system by 1984 and to about 25 percent by
1995;
(g) construction of sewer interceptors and outfalls to eliminate
discharge of sewage wastes within populated areas;
(h) extension of sewer pipes to areas lacking the service and
construction of house connections;
(i) construction of sewerage pumping stations where topographic
conditions preclude the use of gravity systems;
(j) construction of sewage treatment plants where downstream use
(domestic or agricultural) require preservation or improvement
in water quality; and
(k) a technical assistance program to the local water and sewerage
companies to improve their managerial, financial, technical and
administrative practices, including the implementation of an
accrual accounting sytem and the acquisiton of accounting, water
quality control and leak detection equipment.
The Borrower and the Executing Agency
53.       The Borrower, BANOBRAS, is a national development bank specialized
on loans for public and social works (sanitation, urban development, market
places, housing, and transportation). It grants loans to federal, state and
municipal governments and their agencies and it is financed by the Federal
Government and through international borrowing.



- 15 -
54.       At the end of 1975, the Mexican Government established FIFAPA as
a trust fund within BANOBRAS to finance water and sewerage investments in
medium-size cities. To carry out the first operation, supported by the
US$40 million Bank loan 1186-ME of January 1976, the Government authorized
an equity capital for FIFAPA of US$100 million, to be financed by the pro-
ceeds of the Bank loan and from the budget, and to be paid in -s the sub-loans
were disbursed. In anticipation of Bank support for an expanded program, the
Government has now authorized a substantial capital increase of US$500 million
for FIFAPA, to be financed, as in the past, from the budget and the proceeds
of the Bank loan as disbursements take place. FIFAPA's financial statements
will continue to be audited by external auditors and their reports submitted
to the Bank no later than three months after the end of each calendar year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       FIFAPA will receive the proceeds of the Bank loan and the Mexican
counterpart funds as equity contribution and will pay the interest on the loan
to BANOBRAS, which would repay the loan to the Bank and would bear the exchange
risks. FIFAPA will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan and government contri-
bution to the local water and sewerage companies at an interest rate of at
least 9 percent per annum, and a 15-year term after a grace period equal to
the construction period (from 2 to 3-1/2 years). These onlending terms are
identical to those applied in the first FIFAPA operation. The beneficiary of
these subsidized loans would primarily be the local water and sewerage insti-
tutions, which now receive grants or interest-free loans. Although the 9
percent interest rate is lower than the cost of capital in Mexico, and negative
at current rates of inflation, these rates would not distort investment
decisions of the local institutions. This would be ensured as follows: (a) at
the design and project preparation stage, only the least cost solutions would
be supported by FIFAPA; and (b) only consumers of volumes of water considered
essential would receive the benefit of the subsidy implied in the onlending
rate, while all consumption above the basic volume would be charged at or
above the long run average incremental cost of the service.
56.       SAHOP would be the executing agency through the Financial Coordinat-
ing Unit (SCF) under the General Directorate of Construction for Water and
Sewerage Works. In addition, SAHOP would be providing technical assistance to
the local water and sewerage companies. SCF has made considerable progress
since its creation in 1976, but still faces problems associated with the rapid
expansion of its responsibilities. SCF personnel is qualified but relatively
inexperienced. To cope with its expanded tasks, SAHOP is strengthening SCF
and will maintain at all times qualified staff in sufficient number to allow
this department to meet the additional responsibilities entailed by the
project (Section 4.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
The Beneficiaries
57.       The beneficiaries of the proposed loan would be autonomous municipal
or state water and sewerage companies (AWS Companies). The creation of these
companies is a requirement to participate in the project and will contribute
to the decentralization policy of SAHOP (Section 5.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The AWS companies will be in charge of administering and operating



- 16 -
the water supply and sewerage systems and, in the longer run, in charge also
of the construction of the systems. Since in some project cities these
companies are just being created, and therefore lack experience, SAHOP will
implement a technical assistance program which includes:
(a) specific programs to meet the needs of each company in order to
improve their management and accounting practices and maintenance
programs; and
(b)  technical assistance as required by each AWS Company and close
monitoring of their financial performances and compliance with
the subloan covenants, and adoption of remedial actions when
required (Sections 3.01(a) and 4.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
58.       SAHOP has agreed to prepare not later than June 30, 1981, a frame-
work tariff study which would establish the basic guidelines and criteria for
tariff levels and structures (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
The tariffs should provide sufficient revenues to meet the financial require-
ments specified in para 61 below and promote efficient resource allocation;
standard consumer categories should be established; tariffs for basic consump-
tion should be set at levels affordable to low income groups; tariff structures
should be progressive to discourage water wastes and to provide cross-subsidies
to low income users; sewerage charges would be based on a proportion of water
usage; and "other charges" would reflect a consistent policy of cost recovery.
After the establishment of such guidelines and criteria by SAHOP, the AWS
companies would develop specific tariff studies and implement them not later
than September 30, 1981 or six months after the corresponding subloan signature
(para B.l(v) of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The tariff struc-
ture to be applied in each city would ensure that the richer sections of the
population subsidize the poorer ones to enable the AWS companies to generate
adequate revenues to cover the costs specified in para. 61(a). It would also
ensure that tariffs and other charges on consumption above the basic volume be
set so as to reflect the long run incremental cost of providing the service.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
59.       The estimated cost of the project is US$297 million equivalent, of
which US$125 million represents the foreign exchange component. Base costs
are expressed in prices of June 1980. Engineering and administrative expenses
have been estimated at 7 percent on the basis of the experience obtained
during the execution of the first FIFAPA operation. Physical contingencies
vary from 5 to 18 percent (averaging out to 15 percent) according to the type
and location of works and the degree of preparation of final designs. Contin-
gencies for price escalation were based on a construction profile of four
years starting in 1980 for the entire project; for local costs estimates on
the Mexican price escalation index were used, while international inflation
estimates were applied to the foreign component. Final engineering designs,
supervision of construction and management consultant costs for the project
are estimated at US$13.8 million and would require about 4,450 man-months of
consultant services. The average man-month cost is estimated to be US$4,650
for professional staff and US$1,220 for supporting staff.



- 17 -
60.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component
of the project in the amount of US$125 million; the Mexican Government would
provide funds to finance the local cost component in the amount of US$193
million (including 21 million of the VAT). FIFAPA would finance interest
during construction. Additional working capital requirements and other minor
works of the water and sewerage companies (about 5 percent of the respective
investment programs) would be financed through funds generated by the companies.
Subloan Agreements and Charges to Consumers
61.       The proceeds of the Bank loan and Government contribution will be
onlent to the AWS companies in each subproject city for an amount equivalent
to the construction cost, the corresponding value added tax and interest
during construction. Each subloan agreement would include, as a condition
of disbursement for the corresponding subproject, the obligation of the
municipality or the state to establish an autonomous company to operate
the water supply and sewerage services whithin 6 months of the date of the
respective sub-loan agreement, whenever an AWS does not exist, and would be
approved by the Bank. The agreements would be guaranteed by the respective
state government and would include the conditions listed in Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement. These conditions aim at:
(a) ensuring financial self-sufficiency through a revenue covenant
whereby each company -- during the project execution period --
would attain the target of generating enough revenues to cover:
operating costs, working capital requirements, minor works and
the larger of the debt service on the subloan or depreciation
charges on revalued assets;
(b) implementing an adequate accrual accounting system and revalua-
tion of fixed assets;
(c) creating specific programs to implement administrative and
operational improvements as indicated in each feasibility
study; and
(d) monitoring of their operation and external auditing.
Procurement and Disbursements
62.       All procurement will be made in accordance with the Bank's procure-
ment guidelines which are being used by FIFAPA/SAHOP in the first operation
(Loan 1186-ME). Before bids are called for, BANOBRAS will furnish to the Bank
for comments the list of all major contracts it intends to award for each
subproject and will make such modifications as the Bank may suggest (Schedule
4 of the Draft Loan Agreement). Contracts in excess of US$2.5 million for
civil works and US$500,000 for the purchase of equipment and materials would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts
for less than US$2.5 million but over US$250,000 for civil works, or less than
US$500,000 but over US$150,000 for equipment, would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding, following procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts for less than US$250,000 for civil works and US$150,000 for



- 18 -
equipment could be procured directly on the basis of at least three quotations
and subject to a maximum aggregate of US$12.5 million (5 percent of total
project cost). Given the advanced degree of development of the construction
industry in Mexico, all civil works contracts are expected to be won by local
contractors; however, foreign firms would be eligible to bid. General condi-
tions for tender documents to be used for ICB and local procurement have been
prepared under the first FIFAPA operation and are acceptable to the Bank.
Contract awards under local competitive bidding would be submitted to the Bank
for ex-post review prior to disbursement. Goods manufactured locally and
procured under ICB would be allowed a preference of 15 percent over the CIF
price (or the level of import duty, whichever is lower) over imported goods.
63.       The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.  Bank
financing of the foreign exchange component would be achieved by disbursing 45
percent of all payments to contractors excluding the 5 percent retention which
is withheld from civil works contractors during the guarantee period following
the completion of works as well as SAHOP's direct costs for supervision and
construction charged to the AWS companies. FIFAPA will also be reimbursed 45
percent of the sums paid for engineering design, construction supervision and
technical assistance provided by consultants.
64.       In order to permit work to proceed in the cities reviewed during
appraisal, retroactive financing for contracts awarded after April 1, 1980 for
up to US$5.0 million on sub-projects approved by the Bank is recommended
(Schedule 1, para 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
65.       The estimated aggregate return on investment for the four cities re-
viewed in detail during appraisal (Monclova, Tepic, Nogales and Toluca) and
three additional subprojects submitted by SAHOP (Cd. Juarez, Matamoros and
Queretaro) is 13 percent. The combined base cost of these subprojects is
US$173.0 million or 71 percent of the base project cost. This estimated
return compares favorably to returns of similar projects in the sector in
Latin America and the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Mexico of 11
percent. As in the case of other water supply and sewerage projects, benefits
were estimated on the basis of tariffs and other revenues that would be
collected for the services and do not fully reflect economic and social
benefits. Benefits such as improvements in public health, increases in labor
productivity, and environmental improvements are either not reflected or only
partially reflected in the tariff paid for these services. Evidence indicates,
however, that users assign a value to the initial volumes consumed significantly
higher than the value of water tariffs.
66.       Sensitivity analysis shows that with 20 percent increase in invest-
ment costs and no change in tariffs, the IRR would decline to 10 percent. If
costs increase, however, the tariffs would have to be increased too to meet
the financial requirements under the covenants.



- 19 -
67.       Information gathered in the cities of Cd. Juarez, Tepic and Nogales
indicates that people lacking access to public supplies obtain their water
mostly from private ve dors in receptacles of 290 liters at a price varying
from Mex$ 6 (Mex$ 30/m ) to Mex$ 203(Mex$ 100/m ).  These prices are more than
10 times the estimated tariff per m in the project cities. Moreover, families
earning less than one monthly minimum salary (about Mex$ 3,600) who are    3
presently paying from Mex$ 120 to Mex$ 400 for a monthly consumption of 4 m
of unsafe water, will now havS access to safe water, paying about Mex$ 30 for
a monthly consumption of 10 m . The former considerations indicate that the
project's economic and social rates of return, if quantifiable, would be
signficantly higher than the estimated IRR.
Population Benefited and Urban Poverty Impact
68.       The project would provide water supply through house connections to
about 1.2 million additional inhabitants by 1984 and sewerage to about 1.3
million additional inhabitants by 1984. About 36 percent of the additional
population to be served with piped water (some 437,000 people) and 34 percent
of the additional population to be served with sewerage (or about 453,000
people) are estimated to belong to the urban poverty target group, defined as
people earning less than one-third of the annual national per capita income
(estimated at Mex$ 9,420 or US$413 in mid-1979). The richer sections of the
population in the project cities would be subsidizing the poorer ones to enable
the water entities to generate adequate revenues to attain financial self-
sufficiency, namely to cover the operating costs, working capital requirements
and the larger of the debt service on the subloan or depreciation charges on
revalued assets.
69.       Water supply coverage for the urban poor will increase from 58 per-
cent in 1979 to 81 percent in 1984, while the sewerage coverage will increase
from 35 percent to 63 percent during the same period. Coverages will continue
to increase in subsequent years. For this purpose, water intake works, major
networks and sewage collectors have been designed for a period ranging from
10 to 15 years.
70.       Expansion of water production and main distribution facilities and
provision of sewage collectors and interceptors will permit a coverage of
90 percent of the 1990 projected population with water supply and 80 percent
with sewerage services through the expansion of secondary networks. It is
estimated that by 1995, in scattered areas on the outskirts of the cities
where it would not be economical to provide services through house connections,
about 10 percent of the population will continue to be served by public stand-
pipes and about 20 percent by latrine or septic tanks. On the basis of the
appraised cities and the additional feasibility studies prepared by SAHOP,
it is estimated that as a result of the project about 2.4 million and 2.5
million additional inhabitants will be connected to the water supply and
sewerage systems respectively by 1990.



- 20 -
Project Risks                                                              -
71.       Given the implementation capability of SAHOP, the availability of
experienced local construction firms and the advanced stage of engineering
designs, no major problems are envisaged in the construction of these relatively
simple works. The main risks associated with this project relate to possible
delays in the achievement of improved managerial and financial performance
of the AWS companies.  These risks are considered acceptable, since technical
assistance will be provided by SAHOP, and because of the commitment of the
Government to the development of the sector and the support expressed at state
and local levels to the institutional and financial policies being implemented
by SAHOP, which should ensure the realization of the project's goals.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The conclusion of subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Borrower and the autonomous water company or between the
Borrower and the state or municipality where this company would be located,
and the submission to the Bank of the list of all major contracts that BANOBRAS
intends to award for each subproject before bids are called for, would be
conditions for disbursement on the respective subproject (Schedule 1, para.
3(c) and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 15, 1980



-21 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVErAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ  IUI.)                                                        - M0ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1972.5
AGRICULTURAL      977.2                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0        710.0    1290.0                 1384.1                    2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      770.0       1047.0    1384.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      36.4         50.3      65.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 51.0          59.0      65.2                  63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECT IONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         205.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        18.0         26.0      33.0                  28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0      67.0                  81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.6                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0      50.9                  54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4          3.5       3.5                   3.9                       8.2
POPUI4TION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.3       3.3                   2.7                        1.6
URBAN                               5.0          4.8       4.6                   4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         42.0      38.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0          9.0       8.0                   8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.1       3.0                   2.5                        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING       -
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1     845.7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        100.0     101.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        112.0     114.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0      66.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         27.0      27.0                  33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      14.0          9.8       6.0                   8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0          62.4      65.0                  63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0      60.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         54.0      62.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..         71.0      70.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..         29.0      49.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  79.4
RURAL                                ..         13.0      14.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN           1700.0       1481.0    1815.0                1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1613.0    1398.0                1227.2                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             617.0        831.0     851.0                 480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..        549.0     758.0
RURAL                                ..       1289.0    1077.0
AD0ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..        ..                    ..                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7
kURAL                               5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        59.0
URBAN                                ..         80.7
RURAL                                ..         28.0        ..



- 22 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      FEFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAtES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  ,
MOST RECENT             M7DDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESrIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                80.0        104.0     116.0                 99.7                   105.9
MALE                 82.0       107.0      119.6                101.0                   109.3
YEMALE               77.0       102.0     114.0                  99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        22.0      39.0                  34.4                    64.0
MALE                 14.0        27.0      42.0                  33.5                    71.1
FEMALE                8.0        17.0      36.0                  34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0         24.0        *-                  38.2                    28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      46.0                  30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         13.0        14.0       17.0                 14.5                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0         74.0      76.0                 76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0        24.0      42.4                  43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        91.0       278.0      306.0                245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAt4D
POPULATION                        18.0        60.0      85.0                  84.2                   118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
!NTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
-HOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0           ..       ..                  63.3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0          5.0       4.2                   ..                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10993.0      14493.5   18951.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2         17.4      19.0                 22.2                    30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1         45.0      39.0                 37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5        23.0      26.0                  23.5                    29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8       28.8                 31.5                    40.9
MALE                                51.1         47.4      46.8                 48.9                    55.9
PEMALE                               9.2         10.1      10.7                 14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6          1.7       1.7                  1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEBOLDS  61.1/c      60.7       57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/c        3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c        9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    216.0                  190.8.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMfE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    332.0                  474.0
RURAL                                ..         ..    332.0                  332.5                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   9'63A
April. 1980



-23-                                                                            ANNEX I
Note.'  Alobeeg) tb. data  -n draw   Era srcs gasteIy Jodg   the met enthenitetiv  and reliable, it  boold also be nted that they may co  be inter-
eat in..lly  -em-tebl  b.ce. of' telak o   fftnedadieed defleities   "d  -eePt. oee  bY different ....ortiee In clcigthe deta.  The dete ate.  once-.
tbelese, leefol to d-ecibe oElthe f mgiftade. WiMitat  traie, cad eheratenies certaIn mjet difference.. betee-                  twetle
Thereerme  groeea()te acssygopo   h   ojo   oe                               e   2  a t-aor  gone  with smwa  higher evetSg Incom   tha  tha rootry group
of the aejeot onosry (eacep  fer "Captal Soeplc Oil Enprtete" step nicer.'Middle Ieoe Nethb Aftite cod Middle Bot" I. chees  bece...e of enroaer
eeoo-,ilerl afddtfs)   E  the refetane  Stoop date the   -.nSage  ar  pepoleti   weightd atithetto -ee   for each idir-t-o and ehoe   ey  hbec so
least half of the  -nentets On e grop ha. dccc f-o that ldicatot.  fine  the o-ereg  of cettnies emeg the  oio r  dopede on the  -vileblity et
date aed Ie ct niEc.. erotic. mee he eerois-d in telatieg ev ,ege  of  -e  ledictetr to onothet.  Thee- otae   t  co, u..efol it c-Poolg the veIce
of one indleotor Ae s tint.-ama   the  one,try an  ref ..e.c  grnp
1.81 ~ARE   (thocecod eq.bm.)                                                               Peocllattoi crIhocto  Poultin  -rId.  iy cute  00potlt phy-.
Total - fetal suface - aneepricibS iad acne sad inload eaes                                   iria.e qolif-rd  "c  a dica  school at -cio-taoy 100*1.
dgioer   eelmtet of agitoltor..Ial  at .cad e-P..trily or psom teey               FP.eletion oao N ...in  P.re.e -.Popolatiee divided by easer cf posicitig
c                  for crops, ~~~~~~~Pactorsa  sthet sod kbithe  gardes or no lie fallow; 1977 data.          ale sod Easel  g-oedutoree.pr-titi caress  cod ass istant ecr-
littO CAiT  10 9  - MPpercaitaeaissesat  ooectesheeprces    1        Popoletice ret noitale   - total. -ohen. e- np   - Popolation (noes),
colcied by emS          GN pcerio   -pi,od 0.i..Wrdac  kiotlost(97-7t basis); i96i            orhas, ad tota) divided by their o.Pcti   somber of heepite1 beds
19lt.d by-ehd1978 data.                                                                     soat97-7   b.i);190, ..iable in pubio and private general an  spectaliad heepit.l aed O-
1970, -d  1; 78 d.t-                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~hebilitatioc cetes.tpitels are ctbliebh-tn  peosacetly staffed
0010.0 iieocc' 00 Pg C! It -Aa,,a           enrg                    byen  eat sa  physicIne.    -tbioent    oldg prircipaily  -totdiol
sody linie,psrosm   nITAral ga              - ,",               rcol          (oal            can  erat net included,  total hepitele, h-.es, icolode  enlih end meditel
tti~tY)i. kl.g-    f  ..   q.i .and . hydo t-, eu 960s cod70cibrma  also-          clotc   coot pereseetly steffd by a physiclen (bee by a medical a..ieotne,
e.ticty  inklg-- fci   qivlc   e   apt;16,190   o   98                                        ea,mdife, sec.) which offer lo-patirt ...co.datier  an  p-cide 
limited cargo of meical fneilitise.  to  aaiailp.rpoesa orb.e haspi-
PopULATIOsI AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               tala iolde WHO.s principal ga-o1 ced aP-cieised hoepitala. cod tors
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~hosp itals loca  ro tors  hoepirai  end mdice1 sod mat-rcty c ea
Total PeroI.lsti. Midn-le  (elio)- A. of Jicy 1; 196i. 197i, end 1978                     Admlc-icc  -n Ocen,itl fd - Tota  ember of adeisi..a to or diLbargs.
date.
ire  urlto - mar . ten oftotal) -btto of unbee to total popoletio;                        feaheiaedrdd by the ember of beda.
diE fereo  deficLiri-  of orhs area ecY affect comPar..hility of date                  OSN
a    to cctris; 1960, 197, and 1978 data.                                          Aea  ieo    eahl  ornepr oab l-ttl  re.aditl
OcOolOtirO Projection  ~          ti        P.J.t..    -b ..d0  180              A heucbbld c0seicteIf   gop ofi.           vde roshr   iigqetr
Population i  rear liRe -Coret populiocpojcion    rabsd  0190                        d their sale seals.  A boarder or .aIdg- cay or say Oc be iciudtd Ic
total popolattoc by age cod1 ecosodtheir soroslty ad fertility rater.            tha household for stotieti-I  -p--ni..
ProJaction Psraeer  for nettalitY ecteecoprs  of thnee ls-sl  flee-                   Ivrcem rofrresarom-tslubn,odoal-Argea-
log life sepecteny et birch Iec...e  cub coith          'sPer cc.pits loom              hoe.. of -rbo  per coo   t, al  nc,co  rural occpid -coe-oottoc
lee,  o  1fsl  life soPectaocY  tabiliateg at 77.1 yeat.  The pars-              d.toflies  rse.Pertny t crrI"    Iogs, eccluda  no-panwned  etroctore en
metersf o  fertilitY eetc else have threa leel-a1       oe  deoIlIs it.uoccpied parts.
ferility tccordiag to Ioros  bow   sofd Past fesily plucoig psoformoote.             Accct   oilorci  mecn o    wligs     oal  ne,an   oo 
tech cutry- is tAco secigeed c   o  thsso  ies combintiocs of entality                  Covetioa.        elifacbcetiiyI  livingt,t..l quarber  asd prc-Io-
sad fertility tree.d. for ptolortice puepo....                                          ot  -total, orec kand. roesl  dsltgetosspeo              -ttively..oo.
the hlrtb rats is oqoel~..  to the d-ch rte, sod also the ago ateatuts or-    EDUCATION
mo'le   cosa Thl. is _rhis-d rely after fartility rtsdcnoto                            dutdiroleclto
the telcno   cno-erotcpootio  rate, whec -o.h                           setn            Piayehol-ttl   ancdfnl  -ba    oa,el   n   ed
of noc  ..PI.c.. itealt sc-ttly.  lhs stationary  populatibonesc.erole    fal agest-t                              ci heponlr lv   a                 p-cdtge  frapr  tire
esiae   cthe hesis of the poJectod cheot-eisoice of the popolotiet                 primar   sctlag    oooos  ecree-y   inluescIdren aged   -l
Io the y-a  li0d, oed the race of delc  of fertility rte tooplt-                         years hut adJusted Pfor differ-tLeogi-bth  of priosay edo..tiao; for
leer satiecuo reolotiecis reahed  -Th. year whet ettio...ry pepolotion.. cutrioae.ithoivrl edec..ttt  -nr1is-t soy seceed 100. p.rc.et
sier hoc hea.o reached.                                             since some . pupile ar  bol  o  above tha offi10151 schtl age.
Per ~c. e. - Oci-yeer ppuIctico per equate  ilonet-r (lOt hectatoaf of                edcairqira_  ci lretfotyr  of opprrd primary ieetrct ioc;
tote1 ores.                                                                               pro-ides geosro1, rocti.onl.  rteacher treble8  icet-otiaon   f or pupib
Por so. Am. ctocir   ad - iputed as above for egiat                       and               usually of 12 to 17 years of age; ...o-poodr  coor.        c  er.   a....nraly
_1ly.                                                                                     enc1aded.
PooeicdnSict-- inrec)-Tldrek-l    er),wrlg-age (10-                                 yoctioesleertollmont(rn tofscdry -Vcaoelittuoa
hiyas) n  retird (65  .twr  aod over) os po..c..rasee of mid-yearPeru-                 includ  terbo tca ., tedc ftri ... cvod-y   egeeeic   prteidpe
latioc; 1960, 1970. ard 1970 date.                                                           dnl   rmdpreseo   oodr   ottros
Gt-t                                                        ?.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pupe-teachorretie - rlery is d ec-d-ry - lotal studete strolled is
Poolaion tooth  ats forceo) - ttel -Asac.  aronthitatee of total mid-              priory ord sceaylvl  divie  by eushere of te-rhero it the
yerPorulsiee   for 1950-6t, 1960-70, sod 197170 7.
loinsfr1951-61t  196:1-0, cod'b           $A.latt    .t.o 1970-7p0                   Adult'literay .taco(- ... t) - Lit-rtsado1to  (able to tacd rod wtite)
Crdic os(roe th  ....nd) - Aetol live hitho Per tbcomae..d of cid-yea.seeceto   of toall adult populotict agod 1) y-sr  oodovr
CpopeatHtee; l"It9, 1970. sad 1978 data.                                               C910T
Cr  .Be.th Rtt   (ret th-ocod) - retool d-he Per thou....d of  id-y-e                      PecNesrTo Ct  cccoer uuaic      usee   ascsro   ao
Poyclocice;  96hi, 1970, cod 10 78 data..P.-t   -     -  h...   b..Ii.                                                                       .-.t    -t.
G-rcn Osroocio Ot  - Average conh- of d.uRhitresoso rll boo  it                              caslaig  esca   ight pcreoco; coluc  tebularc.  hostes  tod
hernralrrodo-t- Psoird if  h.e sop-riece  Ptr....t og-pei  trs-                             iliny vhice.1:t.
tilfcycotas;ue....lIy five.- yea  ovre  audieg in 1960, 1907, ad 1977.                  Raisd cies(c cho             _an reulto-          All typae of reci-as for cede
PI   11,   "t      d,). - A ... I  -b-t  f ..pt.t               breadoate tc g..o..el public per thousand of ropulatioc;  -eclude   -sli-
sallyPlerceg -  rcecera, oousl(thouarof    -                                        .cloao.f cetr  esd receives t. cJ. tio oad Ic years rhce rgisaretion of esdio  n
PoollyPlaneon -  ser  rroO   o   are  toneo.l   - Pecyceg  of morrStty..                                                                -b -p       l    it-t
coce  of cho-focgae(14  yer)gb   s  hrh                    feco  deiebc onr 1eooishad lic-nolg.
"Loo   f7hiW-1-TO S  ..... Rtl-' ~ ~          ~          ~          TVicosver (rY  th1-sa roulhtco)-bTVrhcloor  fo_hrcdcatto
pllO dcc U-TITION                                                                              Ia  --utries ood Ie year  wino  -goi.-ti.. Of Vcts  a  it nifac.t
lodnoof fod Prouotic oar arlin(19A971111   - ld.. of Per capicat  r.        corrrCiclto ( cuthousan oolanon    h- Son  thn  -reo  cirools
prodccio ofallfoodcomditlc.   rodutin  -olcdec coed ard feed cad                       diygcrlnte nwsar,decdtyriedce   pub-.
ll ol  ,I,,d,;.y,   C,_"ti.. t._,   1.,.ty            ....          licsicn devoted ptisarily to r--odiog  Ratr. -1ena..  It is coociderod
100  clooryo  baht   Coac dic    cowe  priacy   cda(.g.'        ocr              to he 'doily" if it oppeaa atI best feetci-nocoeslrk
ceo are ceclded).  Aigreg to  rdoctioc of each country i hab-d o
:aiolaeeProduce  price  -igits; 1961-i5, 1970, oc  178 data.                     coeasl   err   h   er  ioccadie.....  t  drIv-ic  is
1per_boY.  "bilolt, cePP'le   onrs  dosn-tlo prod-crioc,isyorta  oos:                umABO Pf--
eocru,at "ccer  Ic atock.  Nec oupplico  -cr lde  _ti-  fen,seo                  TclhrF.oc  (thoosor.da   - icvoiocily atlion perso.s-.iocloding
quci e   sdIcfood proc....ioc, and Iraces Ic diatoihetio    ccie                 amd  ocsrd cospJoyd hot  -loldico hoo...cIver,  tudeeta,  tto.
00-0_ ocre oociaattd hy Plc lame.d cphyobologicol used. for  -ona  ccci                 Defiolti-c    ee ioooutriseereotoo--.: 'An; 1910, 1970 eed
viry  oo   mdc  ccsdorig corloo7enocl temperture, bcdy woightie, ci                   P1ole (.toret..      eaelhrf rapocoaso   dllbrfre
urd ..r dlotribntinn of POpulrio, acd ollocica 10 perce-  for eace  t                                      Foieto (eco)-1  Ibie    oro I,- io,    oree 'tr,hclg sod
h...tehold leve, 1961-65, 1970, and 1073 data..bo     t                                                                           I         -    ty ho   g.d
Per cant aborly  f yrctait (arsacano day)- Protein  -cteoc of Per caPita      fichicg as yprcccao  of rotaI labor forc; 1960, 1971 c"d 1970 data.
nor cuply cffood  er day   Cot epyly   f.fod ic deficad as shv.-   Re      rdsryIocu      co     lht  oc                       ..coc, roric    auacro
qoirecoco fo  all cectrie  socaiiehed  yUSIo pc_vdo for oli.un              und e1letiitiy, ot-trard taoR..          nr       ftoa   mc  force; 1960,
uS loroacco ~~~f if 00000 of rrtoi ptccstr pnr day en  10 graec cE acinal aci  1970 atd 1970 deta.d 7 . 1978 d .
poonyrtec,of,hih  1  rae  hol  h  aOcl  roci.Tiseared                     rctcreie tte(rrcc)  cto,   r                       d Iel-I.     tcpetoc
ards err icer tilt ohos yr Ps gras of totalpoctelo md 23ga    f             c-tivityrc.teeareccnputed oe tocel, eel,  and female lhor fEroa
Prr caric Occisletorply frm aclelcod pei P ..- P byel  FOupl  of food do      pg-ceol  errortert ofdtin    patdoo  andI p'pcc  tim   crn.       tee. earl-y
tlso dar   drived free lfe,  ya.e Oh,17  ord 1977 dataP,                             icfofoodTOIiTdlt
Life ioeccorcot 00cc (esor)    Avnrgooeeb   of  naru o  lifercne diog     E.i per -ooc   riohac 1    eceti. pofra  20   rct. cod poo65  40  -ecet
00 hioch;  910, 1970 sod 1970 dote,  ~~~~0 .d 177  .t                     INOfE households.I
lofoncrcccalctv Rac (coo ohnosaod(  - Ionel doorto or  tofoca under ccc  deor    po.. iy Tdoby oiou-
ofccppthtodlv  little.A                                       _f_lif___i_i____f__-___d _
docor  ) pepY  (tta,-1    ic  addorl otttraeoeld  I ce tt-to taf               d        -utriti-olly adrou.tt  dirt ples ..c..ttia1 co-fod r-qnireeocet Ia -c
oa hrupupIlcfd- crea.tedcIt.at  raoeOoterdbrlrcolae                                 ffordble..
P-rce-tir  o  their  Irpo de  cplaloc                   -tcuhceeopblic'
"noIdeo   ctigd              rnaoval  acot,oftha hIo.....r.baeo                            Porea ...Icovoc of rhevon-toY.  Prior lr-- in de-i-d foc  the rura
deoooicoct- 001  hsPlY chat rho  .. too Jcfe or esabe.o y  tir ho...ebcld                - lrc  eith adjoc,.tr   fcr hiohe  t.pot of I   8 Or utbc. arose.
dooflhnoc  csd adlcvP-crcip...te por of thn day ic f-chibe the                   -slctd P  .. aIoc. haohnut oet                     cn e e rrcr)-r u
tunic  ocac-  -odo                                                                         ardoera  - Percet of popoleoloc  (-re   '  rrl   h  ae"bolt   or
lOovocl cc orortoto  of ce cc ccoroclo popoatioct   Iccotta dc. itJonl   o   ole    aeIvs
ocool py Icoldo tIcoolnotoc ad   oaccua . oho-o -icn   oaac.                                            toonoi-  lolyo A coiPro ec1980        eetn






- 24 -
MEXICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                                              ANNEX I
page, 4 of 5
Frellminary
Actual                              Estimates                  Proiectione                    Groth Eatee                  As % of GDY
1970         1975         1977          1978       1979          1980            2       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                      Constant 1972 Prices. _U3 Millions
(,,eS Domestic Product                    36,970.4      48,510.8    50,969.6       54,-se.2  58,802.9      63,511.9    74,260.2   94,042.9        5.6       3.9     8.1      100.3    99.4        93.5
Gains from Teras of Trade                  - 114.1         438.8        801.9         327.5   1,283.8       3,525.6      5,125.0    6,844.3       -       -9.3    98.9        -0.3      0.6        6.5
Gross Domestic Income                     36,856.3      40,949.6    51,171.6       54,763.6  60,086.7      67,037.5    79,385.2  100,887.1        5.8       3.8     9.7      100.0   100.0       100.0
Import. (including NFS)                    3,754.4       5,835.8      4,787.8       6,426.5   9,256.3      10,428.4    13,931.6   18,416.6        9,2      3.3    21.3        1082    11.7        17.5
Exports (import capacity)                  3,016.6       4,109.4      4,751.3       6,264.0   7,646.7      10,662.0    13,677.7   17,809.0        6.4     15.1    21.6         8.2    11.4        17.2
Res.urre Gap                                 737.8       1,786.4         36.5         162.5     609.6      -  233.7        253.9       607.7    18.4    -54.5       -          2.0      0.3       -0.3
Cossomption                               30,425.4      40,149.0    41,831.4       44,093.2  47,921.7      52,396.0    61,457,4   78,492.2    507           3.2     8.7       82.6    80.5        77.4
T.vestment                                 7,168.7      10,326.9      9,376.6      10,233.0  12,774.6      14,408.1    18,181.9   23,003.2        8.0      i.A,i  13.8        19.5    19.8        22.9
Gross Dom.estic Savingo                    6,430.9       8,800.6      9,340.1      10,670.5  12,165.0      14,641.8    17,928.0   22,395.6        6.5      6.6    13.9        17.4    19.5        22.6
Groom National Savings                     5,995.3       7,701.9      8,247.3       9,373,3  10,529.1      13,022.6    16,450.8   20,938.2        5.1      6.8    15.1        16.3    17.1        20.7
TRADE IN GOODS AND NFS                                  Correct Prices, US$ Millions                                                                                                  As Z of Total
MORdTSTOTAL                                   2,073.2       8,636.7      7.855.      11,466.4  16,739,9      24 263.2    38,299.6   61,827.8        20.4      9.8    35.1      100.0   100.0       100.0
Food                                           5.9         499.3        475.1         605.7     723.0       1,422.5      1,729.7    2,704.8       46.1     6.7    30.-0        0.3      5.3        4.5
Petrolem and Products                         26.2         269.1        107.5         167.1     259.5         298.4        354.5       434.2      37.8   -14.7    20.7         1.3      1.5        0.9
Other Goods                                1,527.5       5,845.4      5,338.1       7,444.8  11,272.2      16,086.1    26,246.4   42,006,2        21.3      8.4    37.0       73.6    64.9        68.5
Noe-Factor Services                          513.6       2,022.9      1,934.3       3,248.8   4,485.2       6,456.2      9,969.0   16,682.6       13.7    17.1    32.4        24.8    28.3        26.0
EXPORTS. TOTAL                 1J             1,964.6       2,745.5      6,081.7      11,176.4  15,503.6      24,806.9    37,601.6   59,787.7         6.9    22.5    35.4       100.0   100.0       100.0
SDlected Agricultural Goods                  642.4         711.6        954.2       1,974.7   2,308.9       2,709.0      3,419.7    4,591.4        2.1    28,4    14.7        32.7    17.7         9.1
Petroleum snd Products                        40.1          38.4        460.1       1,793.3   3,789.3      10,321.7    17,534.9   28.541.2        -0.9    57.4    76.8         2.0    16,0        46.6
Selected Minerols                            189.7         244.3        457.6         548.8     952.2      .1,127.8      1,447.3    1,992.0        5.2     9.0    27.4         9.7      4.9        3.8
Manufacturma                                 132.5         326.9      1,069.3       2,143.6   2,372.6       2,946.8      4,083.4    6,301.4       19.8    26.1    17.5         6.7    19.2        10.9
Other Goods                                  153.9          26.6         63.3           -          -             -
Non-Factor Services                          806.0       1,397.7      3,077.2       4,716.1   6,080.6       7,701.5    11,116.4   18,311.7        11.6    15.3    23.9        41.1    42.2        29.6
TRADE INDICES                                                Average 72-100
Export Price Index                            87.7         165.7        1713          188.3      243.7         347.6       439.6       454.3      13.6      4.4    23.6
Import Price Index                            91.0         146.0        164.1         178.4      202.7         232.7       274.9       335.7      10.2      6.4    11.4
Terms of Trode                                96.4         112.0        104.4         105.5      120.2        149.4        159.9       162.4       3.0    -2.0    ll.O
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                    .o.stant 1972 Prices, US$ Millions                                                                                             As % of Total
Primary                                    3,644.6       4,139.0      4,483.2       4,347.1   4,920.7       5,019.1      5,221.9    5,541.5        2.6      1.6     1.4       19.2    12.7         7.0
Secondary                                  8,139.9      12,416.9    16,948.2       17,428,6  21,958.6      24,066.6    28,909.2   37,869.3         8.8      6.4     9.6       26.4    30.5        38.9
Teciary                                   14,818.7      20,422.7    27,075.5       27,507.8  31,923.5      34,426.2    40,129.1   50,632.1         6.6      5.8     6.0       54.4    56.8        54.0
Total GDP                                 26,603.2      36,978.6    48,506.9       49,283.5  58,802.9      63,511.9    74,260.2   94,042.9         6.8      5.6      8.1     100.0   100.0       100.0
As 1 of GDS
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Cutrert Receipte                           5,841.8       9,447.1    10,497.1       12,196.4  13,716.7      16,482.8    20,328.5   26,284.3        10.1      8.9    13.6       15.9    27.3        25.6
Cnrrent Expenditures                       4,316.6       8,947.2      9,108.7      10,346.6  10,885.9      12,488.5    15,016.3   19,718.7        15.7      5.0     9.8       11.7    18.9        18.9
Public Savings                             1,515.2         499.8      1,388.4       1 849,8   2,830.8        3,994.4     5,312.1    6,565.6    -20.0        54.7   30.2        4.1      3.4        6.7
Resourc.e for Investment                   1,602.8         570.1      1,484.6      23065.0   2,871.7        4,112.8      5,469.8    6,716.7    -18.7        53.6   22.6        4.3      3.8        6.9
Investment                                 2,265.2       4,842.9      4,381.4      5 409.0   6,842.7         7,512.8     9,698.0   11,929.6       16.4       3.7   15.7        6.1      9.9       12.2
Deficit (net)                                662.4       4,275.8      2,896.8       3,344.0   3,971.0        3,400.0     4,228.2    5,212.9       45.2      -7.9    6.0        1.8      6.1        5.3
ALLOCATION OF G0808  PUBLIC SECTOR                                                                                                                                                      So I of Total
EXPENDITURE81                                                                                                                                                                           A0  17 o   t
Energy                                         -         5,369.1      6,474.1       7,736,9   6,936.2                                              -        12.9      -       27,0    31.7
Treospert and Comemunicationo                  -         1,751.1      1,503.3       1,537.4   1,612.2                                    -         -        -4.2     -         8.8      6.3        -
Social Welfare                                 -         4,221.9      4,602.0       4 771.8   5,020.2            -                 -               -         4.2     -        21.3    19.6         -
Industry                                       -         1,640.0      1,455.6       1,392.4   1,641.5                  -           -               -        -5.3     -         8.3      5.7        -
Agriculture and Rural Development              -         1,977.1      1,617.5       1,562.7   1,991.9            -           -                -         -    7.5      -       10.0      6.4        -
G.enral Adulnistration and Defence             -         3,290.8      5,160.8       5,552.2   5,450.0            _     -           -               -        19.0     -        16.6    22.8         -
Cor rer                                        -         1,531.7      1,436.9       1,785.2   1,481.7                  -           -               -         5.2     -         7.7      7.3        -
Toorisa                                        _            63.2         73.5          53.9       57.2           -           _           _         -        -5.2     -         0.3      0.2        -
Total                                          -        19.843.9    22,323.7       2         24.505,4            _           -           _         -         7.1     -       100.0   100.0         -
Period Avers e
SRLECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                             0966/70 1971/ 75  1976/82
ICOR                                           2.82          5.31         6.92          2.70       2.48          2.71        2.94        2.97      4.11      6.75    3.22      3.28    3.98       3.28
Import Elastirity                              1.29          0.60        -4.54          5.03       3.55          3.29        1.64        1.14      1.65      0.83    2.64      1.11    1.44       1.47
Marginal Savings Ratio                         0.01         -0.02         0.20          0.31       0.22          0.36        0.20         0.22     0.14      0.29    0.30      0.15    0.16       0.28
Value Added Per Worker (1972 Prices)
In Millions      As 2 of Total      1960-1970                                 X of Averi,Se
LA80R FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WOREER              1960   1970      1960     1970      Growth Rate      1960           1979         1960         1970           Growth Rate
Agriculture                                 5.4    5.1      50.5      39.2        -0.6           608.0          939.0         34.7         33.0             4.4
Industry                                    2:1    3.0      19.6      23.1         3.6         2,468.9        4,134.9        140.6        145.0             5.3
Services                                    3.2    4.9      29.9      37.7         4.4         3,222.8       4,044.8         183.6        142.0             2.3
Total                                      10.7   13.0    100.0    100.0           2.0        1,755.6        2,847.6         100.0        100.0             0.0
1/  Includes esgar.
2/  This low rate of growth is caused by a peak in public investment in 1975.
The projected rate for 1977-82 is about 13Y.






- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)                                                                     ANNeX I
Page 5 of 5
Preliminary
Actual                                  Estimates                         Projections
1970        1975           1976         1977           1978          1979          1980              1982             1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                             2,745.4       6,081.7       6,836.3       7,795.1      11,176.4      15,503.6      24,806.9          37,601.7          59,787.7
Imports (including NFS)                             3,416.9       8,636.7       8,421.7       7,855.0      11,466.4      16,739.9      24,263.2          38,299.6         61,827.8
Resource Balanli                                    - 671.5      -2,555.1      -1,585.4       -  59.9      -  290.0      -1,236.3          543.6         -  698.0         -2,040.1
Interest, net -                                     - 307.0      -1,266.5     -1,551.2      -1,811.0      -2,311.9       -3,267.8      -4,070.5          -4,751.8         -6,244.2
Direct Investment Income                            - 267.5       - 657.5       - 666.7       - 401.4      -  477.4      -  587.0      -  587.0          -  587.0         -  587.0
Workers' Remittances                                  122.7         174.6         239.6         251.0         277.0          320.0         320.0            320.0             320.0
Current Transfers, net                                 55.3         123.4         156.0         168.5         197.9          218.0         239.8            290.2             386.2
Current Account Balance                            -1,068.0      -4,181.1      -3,407.7      -1,852.8      -2,604.4      -4,553.1      -3,223.5          -4,759.1         -6,932.8
Private Direct Investment                             322.8         748.8         626.2         555.9         530.0          666.5         738.4            928.3           1,380.7
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                  258.6       3,565.8       4,262.5       3,937.3       4,079.0       3,129.1        3,375.6          4,230.3          5,656.6
(Disbursements)                                    (821.3)    (4,418.6)    (5,417.9       (6,232.3)    (8,343.3)    (10,415.0)    (7,203.0)            (9,617-3)       (15,939.6)
(Repayments)                                      (-562.7)      (-852.8)   (-1,155.4)   (-2.295.0)   (-4,264.3)        (7,285.9)   (-3,827.5)         (-5,387.0)       (10,283.0)
Other Capital                                         588.7          31.7      -1,801.9      -2,136.2      -1,782.1      -1,046.4         990.4           1,345.0          2,135.0
(Public Short Term)                                (139.6)       (764.7)       (879.5)      (-950.0)   (-1,489.4)        (205.5)       (400.0)           (529.0)          (804.5)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                            (449.1)      (-733.0)   (-2,681.4)   (-1,186.2)    (- 292.7)          (840.9)       (590.4)           (816.0)        (1,330.5)
Change in Reserves (-- increase)                     -102.1        -165.2         320.9        -504.2        z222.5        -288.9      -1,880.9          -1,744.5         -2,239.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                                  146.8         310.0         410.0         162.0         494.5         467.0           -
IDA
Other Multilateral                                    112.4         121.8         171.2         122.0         152.2         268.4           -
Governments                                            78.8         265.2         280.1         224.3         407.9          21.2           -
Suppliers                                              69.7         158.6         132.3         105.3         133.4           2.0           -
Banks and Financial Institutions                      443.5       3,360.7       4,561.2       6,996.6       8,240.5      11,690.9           -
Bonds                                                   -           139.9         318.6       1,262.3          36.4         160.0           -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed                 3,238.0      11,541.7      16,062.6      20,832.2      25,774.1      28,192.3           EXTERNAL DEBT
(end of peridd)                                                                                                                                        Outstanding and Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt                               218.0         850.4       1,096.6       1,326.7       1,823.2       2,849.6                                   on Dec. 31, 1979
Repayment on Public Debt                              475.6         762.6       1,154.9       2,232.2       4,416.2       7,737.2
Other Debt Service (net)                                -             -             -             -             -             -                                   $Millions      Percent
Total Debt Service (net)                              693.6       1,612.9       2,252.5       3,658.9       6,239.4      10,586.8           Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings 2/ (%)                                                                                                                 Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                              24.2          25.8          31.8          45.5          54.5          66.9
b.  Total Debt Service                               24.2          25.8          31.9          45.5          54.5          66.9           IBRD                    1,730.6        6.1
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                                                                        Other Multilateral         995.4        3.5
Investment Income                              33.5          36.3         41.3          50.5          58.6           70.6          Governments               895.6         3.2
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                                                Suppliers                 384.0        1.4
a.  Interest as % of prior year's                                                                                                         Bonds                   2,515.0        8.9
D.O. and D.                                     7.4          10.2           9.5           8.3           8.8         11.1           Other Financial
b.  Amortization as % of prior                                                                                                              Institutions         21,671.8       76.9
year's D.O. and D.                             16.3           9.2          10.0          14.5          21.2         30.0
IBRD Exposure                                                                                                                              Total                   28,192.3      100.0
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as % of
Public D.O. and D.                             18.0           9.7           7.6           6.6           5.7           6.1
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                             7.7           7.2           5.9           4.2           2.9
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
21/ Includes worker remittances






- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of August 31, 1980)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                        1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply           90.0        26.6
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                  90.0        11.5
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             47.0        26.5
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0        3.0
1053      1974  NAJ'INSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        36.2
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             50.0        39.1
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               50.0         5.4
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            40.0       23.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        42.3
1420      1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                42.0        31.8
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        68.7
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                50.0        13.3
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               47.0        18.1
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture            56.0        51.0
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5       14.6
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0       40.6
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0         37.9
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             25.0         9.9
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.       60.0       58.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0      119.9
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               80.0        59.6
1706      1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0      161.8
1820      1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Mining               40.0        40.0
1858 1/   1980  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             160.0      160.0
1881 1/   1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  325.0        325.0
TOTAL                                            4,220.9 2/ 1,616.9
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               642.2
Total now outstanding                            3,578.7
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        91.6                 0.7
Total now held by Bank 2/                        3,578.0
Total Undisbursed                                            1,616.9
1/   Loan signed on September 29, 1980.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.






- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8        -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5           -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3      -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/         Sodium Sulphate           0.7      -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --            2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5      -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper               2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9      -      15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0      2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0      -      19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979     Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --       2.3    2.3
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                 114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper              59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                 503.3    31.9  535.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             371.7    22.1  393.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       131.6      9.8  141.4
Total Undisbursed (including participants)              317.5       --  317.5
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
In December 1979, the Executive Directors agreed to amend
the Project Description to include new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307). Overall, the majority
of the project works as originally defined have been completed
and the physical targets of the project have been achieved.
There are, however, disagreements between SARH and the Comision
de Aguas del Valle de Mexico (CAVM) concerning the need to
carry out works in Presa Madin and the decision by the Govern-
ment not to give priority to the Ecatepec sewage treatment
plant. During a recent programming discussion, the Government
has indicated its intention to seek partial cancellation of the
loan, and no extension of the closing date is envisaged.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
kin) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to inade-
quate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is underway
to adjust for these delays. The closing date has been extended
accordingly.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Ba,o Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8. 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of MIay 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31. 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant has been completed and the Pajaritos Urea
Plant is expected to be completed by October 1980. The Parathion
Plant has also been completed. The project is, on average,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning work
will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, and works are now progressing satisfactorily.
This is the result of several positive measures taken by the
Mexican authorities to accelerate project execution, including
the preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the special project unit in
charge of project execution. At the Government's request, the
closing date was recently extended from December 31, 1980 to
January 14, 1982.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Pro_ect:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway company has prepared a revised investment plan on the
basis of which new financial targets and a revised list of
goods have been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to
delays incurred in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in
late 1980, about two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   BaJa California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is slightly behind schedule
due to shortages of building materials in the area now over-
come. An outline for the ecological and environmental study is
being reviewed in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic
as well as North American tourism and the economic study of
tourism have been completed.  Overall, progress is satisfactory,
although difficulties in internal coordination have caused
disbursements to lag behind schedule. Recent communications
with FONATUR indicate that bottlenecks are being eliminated.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Prolect;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. About two-thirds of the loan
have been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979;_ Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress has been obtained for the
training centers, but delays still remain in the implementation
of the productive credits, industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III;  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. The Bank Loan has been fully committed to date.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $25 Million Loan of
September 27. 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6. 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979; the 1980 budget is
adequate.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31., 1982.
Project completion is delayed by about 12 months, to July 1982,
due to a revision of foundation requirements made after a severe
earthquake in the project area in March 1979. Preliminary
estimates indicate cost increases of about 20 percent. Civil
construction work is progressing satisfactorily. Basic engineer-
ing is about 95 percent complete, and detailed engineering is
about 50 percent complete.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$46.6 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$17.4 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
, Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project: US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980: Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
a.   Time taken by country to prepare project:  11 months
b.   Project prepared by:                           FIFAPA/SAHOP
c.   First presentation to the Bank:                March 1979
d.   Identification of project:                     March 1979
e.   Departure of appraisal mission:                March 10, 1980
f.   Post appraisal mission:                        June 1980
g.   Completion of negotiations:                    September 19, 1980
h.   Planned date of effectiveness:                 February 1981
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
a.   Subprojects still to be incorporated in the project, or which would
replace any of the previously selected subprojects, will be selected
according to the priority criteria agreed upon with the Bank (para. 51);
b.   Feasibility studies for subprojects to be financed under the proposed
loan will be prepared following SAHOP guidelines and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 51);
c.   FIFAPA's financial statements will be audited by independent auditors
and copies of such reports submitted to the Bank (para. 54);
d.   SAHOP will establish specific sub-programs within its national train-
ing program to satisfy the particular needs of the AWS companies
and will provide technical assistance through its Financial
Coordinating Unit as required by the AWS companies (para. 57);
e.   SAHOP will prepare not later than June 30, 1981 a framework tariff
study, satisfactory to the Bank, which will provide the basis for
individual tariff studies to be undertaken by each AWS company in
accordance with the provisions of the subsidiary loan agreements
(para. 58); and



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
f.   The following would be a condition of disbursement for each subproject:
FIFAPA should enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with a state,
municipality or autonomous water company, before June 30, 1982, under
terms and conditions specified in paras. 55 and 61. When an AWS company
is not in existance the subloan agreement would include the obligation of
establishing one within six month of the date of the agreement. Each
subsidiary loan agreement should be guaranteed by the State Government
and should have been approved by the Bank before disbursements are made
on account of such subproject (paras. 51 and 61). Before bids are called
for, BANOBRAS will furnish to the Bank for comments the list of all major
contracts it intends to award for each subproject and will make any
modifications requested by the Bank (para 62).
r






SBRD 15092
/0                                                                                                                                                             00ljoz  3  06-  90-                 JUNE 1980
UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA                                                                                                         MEXICO
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES I
\ BAJA                                                                                             t                                                                                             > \ ~guaPnx 2 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
X                                                                                                                                                                                       LOCATIONS OF APPRAISED SUBPROJECTS
171 a,  tA<}gR"S9'    G  f            09                          ~<                                                                                                          i    Medium SizE JoMpproised ct/n
<9                                                                             C//k X              /                                                                                                       Maio Sic I cite lEn + oho  Plo/PduNo,    h bmzIciet1186 NEI
Notiona capitol
sosux      X      cA                                     C'  Poo                                                         ~-    Selaoa seh on ronds
c 0 ;\\9   \    Dun- >  < C A  IA                                                                  4     'ro cisol air po rts -
CAII                                                                                                                                  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Diodt  hiogdorie
|. ,etoo mi/.'d^sr/es
shrMltSFu r~~~~~~J                                                                                                                                                                       g09Zbi"l D9d,;    it;;-J=00)0030=;NsB;J     )i(c
4C\ 5W W f *7r                                                          TAMAU'  AS i
D go           /\ACAT  CAS           /
/              of u  o           ;l /
~ "1'    7ME  CO       ~     /f~C:/5t    Jslsp8/o    of   C-rpoch,                                           QUINTANA
ROO
-   IZCO   A'~~~~~*,             I   B/IZ 7
KROMETV"~ ~~~~~ a toilla?0         "g       -g                                                                                                Nernisz
260  360 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~                                  Dvca- 
KOOMSTESS 0  /00  210  003  400  500                                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  EAAL
Once  t.lnest.n.  ~~G 
0/tO o     500          000           00
H1-ONDURAS
/9'95



