Report No. 769a-UR                                                          FILE  COP
Appraisal of the
Fifth Livestock Development Project
Uruguay
September 19, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
u
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank/IFC authorization.



CuRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  Ur$ 1,940
Ur$ 1.00      =  US$0.000515
Ur$ 1,000,000 = US$515.46
WEIG(HTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)           =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)=  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)              =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton = 0.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BROU        Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
CB          Central Bank
CHPA        Comision Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario
CIAAB       Centro de Investigaciones Agricolas Alberto Boerger
(La Estanzuela)(NCAR)
CONAPROLE   Cooperativa Nacional de Productores de Leche
COPRIN      Comision de Precios e Ingresos
IDB         Interamerican Development Bank
IMPROME     Impuesto Minimo a la Productividad Media
INAC        Instituto Nacional de la Carne
INC         Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion
LF          Livestock Fund
MAF         Mínistry of Agriculture and Fisheries
OPYPA       Oficina de Planeacion y Politica Agropecuaria
PLAN        Plan Agropecuario
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS        .    ......................  - íi
1.   INTRODUCTION  ....          ............................ -  1
II.   BACKGROUND  .................. ..................
A.   Agricultural Sector  .......................           1
B.   Performance under Previous Projects  ......            4
III.   THE FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  .......            6
A.   Brief Project Description  ...............      .      6
B.   Detailed Project Features  .............               7
C.   Cost Estimates  ...........................8 
D.   Financing            ................................    10
E.   Procurement  ............ ..       ................    10
F.   Disbursements  ......       ....................
G.   Organization and Management  .....11
H.   Lending Operations  ........... ............    12
T.   Accounts and Auditing  ..................      ..    13
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER
BENEFITS         .................................. o...    14
A.   Production  ............... ................    14
B.   Markets and Marketing  ...................      .    14
C.   Producer Benefits  .....        ...................    15
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......... ..    16
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........    17
This project was originally appraised in May 1974 by a mission consisting
of Messrs. J. J. Romero-Chavez, J. Bazo, O. Urbina and A. Castillo. It
was reappraised in April 1975 by Messrs. M. J. McGarry and J. Bazo, who
have prepared this report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Table 1 - General Information on the Rural Sector
Table 2 - Production of Major Agricultural Crops (1969-1974)
Table 3 - Beef Production, Consumption and Exports
Table 4 - Meat Industry Investments under the IDB Loan
Table 5 - Taxation Revenue from the Agricultural Sector
Table 6 - Tax Incidence on Size of Land Holdings
Table 7 - Total Exports, by Groups of Products
2.   TECHNICAL SERVICES - PLAN AGROPECUARIO
Table 1 - Investment Cost
Table 2 - Operating Costs
Chart 1 - Plan Agropecuario - Organization Chart
3.   THE BANKING SYSTEM
Table 1 - Financial Position of Banco de la Republica (BROU) as
of December 31, 1969, 70, 71, 72 and 73
Table 2 - BROU's Loan Portfolio to December 31, 1971, 72 and 73 -
Income and Expenses for same Years
Table 3 - Central Bank's Livestock Fund and Banco de la Republica
(BROU) Project Accounts - Project Cash Flow
Chart 1 - Central Bank - Organization Chart
Chart 2 - Bank of the Republic (BROU) - Organization Chart
4.   PERFORMANCE UNDER PREVIOUS PROJECTS
Table 1 - Bank of the Republic (BROU) Project Lending 1969-73
(Adjusted Loans)
Table 2 - Number of Farms Served by PLAN from 1961-1974 by
Farm Size
Table 3 - Expected and Actual Pasture Improvement and Production
5.   FARM MODELS
Table 1 - Development of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch -
Investment Cost
Table 2 - Development of a 700 ha Beef f'attle/Sheep Ranch -
Herd Projection
Table 3 - Development of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch -
Sales and Operating Costs Projections
Table 4 - Development of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch -
Cash-Flow Projection
Table 5 - Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm - Investment Cost



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Table 6 - Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm - Herd Projections
Table 7 - Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm - Sales and Operating
Costs Projections
Table 8 - Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm - Cash-Flow Projection
6.   PIASING OF INVESTMENTS
7.   ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE OF BANK LOAN
8.   PROSPECTS FOR BEEF EXPORTS
Table 1 - Beef Production, Exports, Imports, 1962-1985
Table 2 - Fresh, Chilled and Frozen Beef Price Projections
9.   FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
10.   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
MAP






URUGUAY
FIFTII LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The agricultural sector is at present, and is expected to continue
to be, the backbone of Uruguay's economy, with livestock by far the most
important of its subsectors. Exports of beef, mutton, wool and their by-
products account for about 72% of the country's export earnings. Even
though agriculture contributes directly only 16% to the GDP (1974) and
directly employs only 18% of the labor force, it is also the base for the
development of the industry and service sectors of the economy.
ii.       Nearly 90% of the total area of Uruguay is classified as suitable
for farming and ranching and most of it is under grass. The proportion of
farmland under crops was about 10% in 1956 but this dropped to about 8% in
1961 and has subsequently remained at about that level. A UNDP study, for
which the Bank is executing agency, is to examine the possibilities for diver-
sifying the agricultural sector through placing greater emphasis on crop pro-
duction. Because of the vital contribution of the livestock subsector to total
export earnings, a key requirement for the successful diversification of the
agricultural sector would be that livestock production would not be reduced
while the area under crops is expanded from the current area of about 1.3
million ha to perhaps as much as 3.4 million ha. This long-term strategy
requires the Government to maintain its emphasis on intensifying livestock
production; the proposed Project is consistent with this objective.
iíi.      In 1959, the Government established the Plan Agropecuario (PLAN)
for the specific purpose of carrying out a program to improve technology in
agriculture. The program was started in 1961 in conjunction with the
effectiveness of the first Bank loan. Since then, the Bank has provided
nearly US$55 millíon for four livestock development projects, all of which
have been administered satisfactorily by PLAN, and all of which were aimed
mainly at gradually improving limited areas (10% to 20%) on ranches by apply-
ing phosphatic fertilizer and introducing improved legume-grass pastures.
iv.       The proposed Fifth Livestock Development Project (Project) would
continue to assist Uruguay's livestock development program for a two-year
period by providing technical and financial assistance to some 3,400 ranchers,
1,800 dairy farmers, and 25 machinery contractors. The main investment ítem
would be pasture improvement (64%), but the Project would also finance on-
farm investments such as fencing, agricultural machinery and equipment, water
supply, construction and installations, contractor machinery for forage conser-
vation and other works, and technical services.
v.        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$32.7 million, of
which US$17 million represents foreign exchange expenditures. The Project
would be financed as follows: (a) the Bank loan of US$17.0 million, or 52%



- ii -
of Project cost, would cover the foreign exchange cost; (b) Banco de la
Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) and the Central Bank's Livestock Fund
(LF) would contribute US$6.7 million, or 20% of Project cost; and (c) sub-
borrowers would finance US$9 million, or 28% of Project cost.
vi.       The PLAN would continue to coordinate and supervise the on-lending
program under the direction of the Honorary Commission and a Technical
Director and Senior Agricultural Economist. Funds to grant subloans would be
channeled through the LF to BROU and finally to beneficiaries. Funds for
technical services would go directly to PLAN. A three-tier system of interest
rates would be applied to the subloans: 8%, 6% and 3%, depending on farm size
and type of beneficiary. All subloans to Project beneficiaries would be
índexed, as under existing Loan 940-UR, although the procedure used under
relatively high inflation entails a subsidized interest rate.
vii.      International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines would be required in the procurement of vehicles, machinery and equip-
ment directly imported by PLAN whenever the size of individual contracts
exceeds US$100,000. PLAN would be encouraged to bulk together such items
into larger contracts whenever possible. Similar type contracts of less than
US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's internal procure-
ment procedures, which include local competitive bidding, acceptable to the
Bank. In contrast with previous livestock loans to Uruguay, international
competitive bidding would not be required in the procurement of fertilizer
and seeds, since the importation of these items would no longer be financed
directly by the proposed loan. Sub-borrowers would procure investment inputs
through normal commercial channels.
viii.     The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at approximately 18%, assuming that beef export prices follow the Bank's
projections. The economic rate of return on the dairy component is estimated
at 20% and on the beef component at 17%. Should beef prices be 10% lower
than projected, then the economic rate of return on the beef component would
drop to 15% and on the overall Project to 16%.
ix.       The risk in this Project is that the investments projected may not
be made on schedule due to the problems in the international beef market.
If the investments are made, however, and if the price of beef increases as
expected, then the risk that the returns to the economy will be unsatisfactory
are minimal.
x.        During negotiations assurances were obtained which provide a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$17 million for a term of 15 years, including a
grace period of five years. The recommended term of the Bank loan and the
grace period are based on country considerations. The Borrower would be the
Government of Uruguay, which would bear the foreign exchange risk.



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Uruguay has requested a loan from the Bank to
help finance the continuation of its livestock development program, an effort
with which the Bank has been closely associated for more than 15 years. So
far, the Bank has made 11 loans to Uruguay, totalling US$155.3 million, net
of cancellations. Most of these loans have been made for livestock (US$55
million) and electric power (US$82 million) and execution of the related pro-
jects has generally been satisfactory.  The proposed Project was prepared by
the Government with assistance from the Bank.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      The contribution of agriculture to the national economic output
and to employment is now relatively modest but its importance in earning
foreign exchange from exports and supplying domestic industry is very signifi-
cant. In 1974, the sector contributed 15.7% of GDP; however, it provided 86%
of the value of all exports (72% livestock products and 14% crops). The sector
employed directly about 18% of the labor force and also supplied local industry
with raw materials, and thus, indirectly, contributed an additional 15% of
GDP. About two-thirds by value of the sector's output consists of livestock
products and one-third of crops. About a fifth of Central Government revenues
is raised from the agricultural sector (Annex 1).
2.02      Nearly 90% of the total area of Uruguay is classified as suitable
for farming and ranching and most of it is under grass. The proportion of farm-
land under crops was about 10% in 1956 but this dropped to about 8% in 1961 and
has subsequently remained at about that level. According to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), 20% of the area of farmland is suitable for
crop production, provided that proper measures are taken to prevent erosion,
conserve soil moisture and to maintain and improve soil fertility. A UNDP
study, for which the Bank is executing agency, is to examine the possibili-
ties for diversifying the agricultural sector through placing greater emphasis
on crop production. Because of the vital contribution of the livestock sub-
sector to export earnings, a key requirement for the successful diversification
of the agricultural sector would be that livestock production would not be
reduced while the area under crops is expanded from the current area of about
1.3 million ha to perhaps as much as 3.4 million ha. This long-term strategy
requires the Governnent to maintain its emphasis on intensifying livestock
production; the proposed project is consistent with this objective.



2.03      Traditional management attitudes still dominate the livestock sub-
sector, with minimal expenditure on capital or recurrent cost items and little
attention to the managerial aspects of farming. The Government, however, is
comnitted to change the situation, and in recent years its efforts through
the Plan Agropecuario (PLAN) (Annex 2) have gained momentum, leading to
significant increases in beef production. The management of crops is also
mainly of an extensive nature on relatively large land units with some degree
of mechanization but with only limited use of improved seeds, fertilizers,
plant protection chemicals or other yieldraising inputs. Consequently, the
national average yield levels are generally low.
2.04      Farm size distribution although skewed does not constitute a
major constraint on growth in farm output and has no major effect on welfare
since almost 90% of the population lives in urban areas. Furthermore, the
long established social welfare system has ensured that rural poverty has
not developed to a serious extent. Uruguay therefore differs from nearly
all other developing nations, including many of its South American neighbors,
which are basically rural societies. The great majority of the population is
employed in the secondary and tertiary sectors; thus, the typical problems
of maldistribution of income, unemployment and underemployment have been
transferred to a large extent from the rural areas to the towns. This does
not mean that these problems do not exist in the rural areas but rather that
rural poverty occurs on a much smaller scale in Uruguay than is common in
developing countries.
2.05      There are three fundamental problems which have limited the develop-
ment and intensification of agricultural production in Uruguay. Firstly,
for many years the national development strategy focused on industrial
development for import substitution; secondly, there was a high degree of
urbanization and sometimes shortage of labor in the rural areas; and thirdly,
the Government had an overwhelming concern with holding down food prices in
the urban areas by controlling agricultural prices at an uneconomically low
level. The heavy emphasis on industrial development led to policies which
turned the terms of trade against agriculture, and, as a result during the
1966-70 period, GDP in agriculture decreased at an annual rate of about 1.6%.
Since 1970, however, the sector has begun to recover and during the 1970-74
period its GDP grew at an annual rate of about 3.7%. This favorable perfor-
mance during the last few years has shown that economic recovery is possible.
This possibility has been improved by the changes the Government has made
in its strategy for development, which it now acknowledges should be based
on an export-led growth through a balanced blend of industrial and agricul-
tural production.
2.06      Over the past 15 years, the Bank has supported ranch development
in Uruguay in order to increase beef production and exports and has encouraged
the Government to follow rational policies in the livestock subsector. Crucial
among these have been (a) adherence to a flexible exchange rate policy, (b)
removal of subsidies on inputs such as fertiíizer, (c) lowering of export



- 3 -
taxes on beef, and (d) an increase in the cost of long-term capital to
approximate more closely its opportunity cost. In recent years the Govern-
ment has recognized the need to formulate its sectoral policies in such a
way as to create an economic environment consistent with a strategy of export-
led growth. In mid-1975 the Government was following a flexible exchange
rate policy, it had totally removed the fertilizer subsidy, it had lowered
sharply the export taxes on beef, and it had reduced the subsidy element in
the cost of long-term credit. The removal of the fertilizer subsidy, which
amounted to about US$5 million annually, was a particularly difficult step
for the Government to take, given the steep increases in fertilizer prices
in the world market that were occurring at about the same time. In the past,
revenues from export taxes on beef have represented approximately 8% of total
revenue and, while it would be in the interest of the livestock subsector to
have export taxes removed entirely, the issue is complicated by its relation-
ship with other aspects of national financial planning (para. 4.07).
2.07      The search for a satisfactory formula for making long-term loans
under high inflationary conditions without causing institutional capital
erosion, but at the same time maintaining incentives for investment borrowing,
has been only partially successful in Uruguay. With the high rates of in-
flation which have been experienced recently and the indexing system applied
by Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) (Annex 3), positive
real interest rates generally have not been achieved for project lending.
In view of the relatively high inflationary condition still present in Uruguay
and the currently depressed beef prices, in the shortrun it is unlikely that
the indexing system will result in positive real interest rates. As the
stabilization effort takes a stronger hold, the interest rates should gradually
turn positive in real terms. Assuming an average inflation rate of 25% for
1976/77 and 15% thereafter and a strengthening of beef prices as forecast by
the Bank, a zero real rate of interest would be achieved over the 10-year
repayment period of the sub-loan. The Government's objective, however, is to
reach lower inflation rates than those above which would result in positive
real interest rates being charged under the Project.
2.08      Over the past two years, the terms of trade of the beef cattle
subsector have deteriorated drastically due to the substantial decrease in
beef prices and a concurrent rapid inerease in the prices of fertilizer and
other inputs. If the index of the terms of trade of the beef cattle sub-
sector in 1970 is set at 100, then by 1974 it had deteriorated to 59 relative
to investment costs, and to 87 relative to operating costs. Given this
depressed state of the industry, the Government is very reluctant to take
additional action which would further depress expectations because this would
discourage ranchers from maintaining their improved pastures, from continuing
investments in ranch development and their breeding herds, thus exacerbating
an already existing bad situation. Given present expectations that the price



- 4 -
of beef by the end of this decade will increase substantially (paragraphs
4.02 to 4.04), and given the fact that investments in beef production are
among the most economically worthwhile in Uruguay, then the Government should
pursue policies to encourage investments in beef production. For these reasons,
increasing the level of interest rates charged to ranchers is not recommended
at this time since it would depress the level of investments at the very time
they are critically needed (para. 3.21).
2.09      In the short term, the objectives and plans of the Government for
the livestock subsector have been seriously jeopardized by the current
depressed international market situation for beef. The closure of the EEC
market to beef imports has been particularly damaging. Ironically, this has
occurred at a time when the size and productivity of the beef herd in Uruguay
is at a record level and the country has the potential to more than double
the export volume of recent years. To deal with this situation, and
realizing that over the longer term the market prospects for beef exports
are favorable, the Government assigns high priority to measures aimed at
encouraging ranchers to continue investments in pasture improvement and thus
to maintaining a maximum level of herd size in order to benefit fully from
the higher prices for beef expected later in the decade. The proposed Project
would help achieve these objectives.
B. Performance Under Previous Projects
General
2.10      The Bank has made six loans to Uruguay, amouncing to US$54.7 million.
to help finance four livestock development projects in support of the National
Development Plan launched in 1957. Project objectives have been to increase
beef production and exports through (a) introduction of technological improve-
ments in livestock production; (b) institution building; and (c) development
of better sector and economic policies (Annex 4).
2.11      The First Project, implemented in 1961 and completed in 1965,
demonstrated methods of pasture improvement on a large sample of commercial
farms and this was continued under the Second Project, which was completed
in 1970. The Third Project supported continuation of the livestock program
for 1971 while the Governnent resolved remaining sector policy issues,
especially in the meat packing industry, and thereby restored the confidence
of ranchers so that they would once more invest in ranch development. The
Fourth Project, started in 1972, has been financed in two stages Loan 816-UR
(US$11.2 míllaon), which was intended to finance operations in 1972 actually
covered operations for both 1972 and 1973, and Loan 940-UR (US$13.5 million),
which was intended to finance 1974 operations but in fact is financing 1974
and 1975 activities. The main reasons why the Fourth Project covered a
longer period than anticipated were, firstly, the repeated devaluation of
the peso following appraisal. which reduced the number of dollars needed
to cover the Bank share of the expenditures made in pesos, and, secondly,



- 5 -
delays by the Central Bank in claiming reimbursements from the Bank which
has had the effect of reducing the dollar disbursement by the Bank because
of changes in the exchange rate between the time subloans were financed and
disbursements were made by the Bank (see para. 3.14).
2.12      Each of the four projects has financed ranch improvements to
increase the livestock carrying capacity of the pastures and the total
production of beef and has also covered technical and consultant services.
In addition, the Third and Fourth Projects have financed the purchase of
equipment and machinery to produce, harvest and process high quality legume
and grass seed and have also financed improvements in the meat inspection,
hygiene, and processíng services designed to raise the quality of meat
exports.
2.13      All four projects have been executed by PLAN, which also assists
ranchers and farmers in the preparation and evaluation of their ínvestment
proposals. Under the First and Second Projects, funds for the lending pro-
gram were channeled through a Livestock Fund established in BROU. Commenc-
ing with the Third Project, however. on-lending funds have been channeled
through the Livestock Fund (LF) established in the Central Bank. LF partially
reimburses BROU for subloans made to ranchers.
Production Increases
2.14      As a result of technical assistance and financing provided by the
four Bank-assisted development projects, over 1.2 million ha (8%) of the
15 million ha of farmland in Uruguay were under improved pastures in 1974.
Studies conducted by the technical unit of PLAN show that, as expected at the
original appraisal of the projects, pasture improvements have led to an in-
crease of about 7% in the calf weaning rates, age of first calving has been
gradually reduced by nearly one year, steers are marketed at least six months
earlier than those raised on unimproved natural grassland, and the extraction
rate on farms receiving subloans under the projects has increased from about
20% to over 23%. It is estimated that these improved pastures now account for
around 20 to 25% of national total beef production. Since 1969, beef produc-
tion (beef output plus changes in inventories) in Uruguay has been growing at
about 5% p.a.
2.15      While pasture improvement technology has been widely accepted in
Uruguay some limiting factors have become apparent. Pasture seed production,
for example. should be further íncreased as Uruguay still has to import about
60% of the seeds needed for its annual pasture improvement program. Uruguay
produced virtually no pasture seed before the Bank projects commenced, but
since no production targets were set at appraisal of the earlier projects,
it is now difficult to judge the achievements of the projects in this respect.
The reasons why Uruguay is not self--sufficient are not clear and the second
stage of the Fourth Project includes funds for a study that will seek informa-
tion that will help the Government determine the future policy for pasture
seed production. While pasture improvement technology is widely known in



-6-
Uruguay. the management of improved pastures is generally not well understood
and each year many hectares of such pastures return to their original state.
Problems related to pasture and herd management will require closer attention
in the future.
Institution _Building
2.16      PLAN enjoys a good reputation among ranchers for the assistance it
has given to stimulate viable economic activity. The technical staff com-
prises about 100 well-trained technicians, 40% of whom are ranchers themselves
and as such have accelerated the introduction of new technology through the
example of their own farms. Despite this, the PLAN needs to strengthen its
analysis of proposed farm and ranch investments by viewing them in the context
of a development plan prepared for several years and not just for one year as
has been the practice (para. 3.18). The meat industry has considerably
improved during the last two projects with the establishment of the Instituto
Nacional de la Carne (INAC) and the upgrading of hygienic and meat inspection
services. Nevertheless, problems still exist (para. 4.05). The objective of
getting private banks to participate in the projects has not been achieved
because short-term lending is much more profitable for them than the longer
term lending involved under the Bank-supported projects.
III. THE FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A.  Brief Proiect_Description
3.01      The proposed Fifth Livestock Development Project (Project) would
continue to assist Uruguay's national livestock development program by pro-
viding medium- and long-term credit to beef cattle and sheep ranchers. dairy
farmers, pork producers and machinery contractors. The beneficiaries of
colonization schemes carried out by the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion
(INC) would also be eligible to participate. The Project would include
financing for technical services, training and demonstrations.
3.02      The Project's objectives would be to expand beef and milk produc-
tion so as to enable Uruguay to increase meat exports, to substitute domes-
tically produced dairy products for imports, and to help the Government
further improve sector policies.
3.03      The strategy proposed for meeting Project objeccives would be to:
(a) step up pasture production through use of phosphatic
fertilizer and better seed; and
(b) improve ranch and farm management by constructing fences,
water points, and cattle handling facilities.



- 7 -
3.04      As in previous projects, funds would be channeled through the LF
to BROU for making on-farm development loans based on technical evaluations
by PLAN, which would also provide the technical services financed under the
Project. The projected level of demand in each of the next two years and the
average size of subloan is assumed to be the average of that actually reached
in 1974 and expected in 1975, and reflects the present problems in the beef
industry (paras. 2.08 to 2.09), The lending program is expected to be as
follows:
Estimated                                 /1
Number of Loans             Lending Program -
Year 1  Year2   Total   Per Loan   Total            %
(US$)   (US$'000)
Beef/Sheep Ranches    1,700    1,700    3,400    4,507    15,323          80
Dairy Farms              900      900    1,800    1,819      3,274        17
Contractor Machínery  _  12    _  13       -25   23?480    _  587          3
Total            2_6_2    2,613    5,225    3,672    19,184         100
/1   Including a physical contingency of 10%.
B.  Detailed Project Features
Prlject Areas
3.05      The Project would be countrywide in scope.  Beef development would
be concentrated mostly in the central and northwest part of the country
while dairy development would be mostly concentrated on the south-central
parts. including the milksheds of Montevideo, Canelones, San Jose and Colonia.
Pig production would be promoted in the minifundia areas where sugar beets
are grown in the densely populated departments of Montevideo, Canelones. San
Jose and Soriano, but only if the pork/feedgrains price ratio returns to a
level of approximately 7:1, thus making pork production profitable again.
Farm/Ranch Development
3.06      Beef/Sheep Ranches.  The Project would finance developments on
about 1,700 ranches the first year and on a similar number the second year.
The average ranch participating would be about 700 ha in area, with about
105 ha (15%) already in partly improved pastures. Under the Project, this
area would be increased by 40 ha (6%). About 72% of the investment is
expected to be in pasture improvement, for which the main inputs financed
would be phosphatic fertilizers and seed. Soils that are enriched with



-8-
phosphatic fertilizers are generally suitable for growing pastures rich in
clovers which, in turn, further enrich the soil by fixing nitrogen from the
air and transferring it to the soil. It is this principle that is the
cornerstone of the technological package used in the Uruguayan livestock
projects.  In order to help improve ranch management, some investments would
be made in fencing, water points and machinery.  Investments in breeding
stock would be limited to relatively smaller size ranches where sound pasture
and herd management is common practice.  Also breeding stock may be purchased
in areas presently devoted to crops where livestock are being introduced
to help restore soil fertility and on INC's settlements (Annex 5, Tables 1 to 4).
3.07      pairy Farming.  The Project would finance developments on about
900 dairy farms the first year and on a similar number the second year. The
average farm participating would be about 75 ha in area with about 20 ha
(30%) already in partly improved pastures. Under the Project, this area
would be increased by 10 ha (14%). About 58% of the investment would be in
pasture improvement and again the major inputs would be phosphatic fertilizers
and seed. Investment in machinery is necessary because fodder conservation
is essential on a well-operated dairy farm in Uruguay. As on the ranches,
some investments would also be made in fencing, water points, and, in a limited
manner, breeding stock (Annex 5, Tables 5 to 8).
Contractor Machinery
3.08      Funds would be provided for making loans to individual producers,
cooperatives or machinery contractors to purchase agricultural machinery and
equipment for the carrying out of ranch development plans. The machinery
purchased would mainly consist of balers. rakes, seed harvesters and tractors.
Technical Services
3.09      Under the Project. technical services would continue to be supported.
Training would be provided both locally and in foreign countries. for PLAN and
other participating agencies' technicians, but especially for the 20 additional
staff expected to be recruited by PLAN for the Project. Additional investments
would also be required in vehicles, accounting and office equipment, and
in machinery. equipment and materíals for demonstration work and technical
assistance (Annex 2, Table 1). A Technical Director and a Senior Agricultural
Economist working in PLAN for at least the first five years would be necessary
to the success of the Project. It was assured during negotiations that PLAN
would have on its staff for at least the first five years of the Project two
such individuals who would be suitably qualified and experienced and whose
terms and conditions of employment would be agreed upon in consultation with
the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
3.10      The total cost of the Project is estimated at  JS$32.7 million of
which US$17.0 million, or 52%, represents foreign exchange requirements.
Costs have been estimated at February/March 1975 prices, and a physical



-9-
contingency of 10% of base-line costs and a price contingency of 15% of base-line
costs plus physical contingencies expressed in dollars have been added. This
price contingency ís based on the assumption of a 10.8% per annum inflation
rate in 1975, droppíng to 8% in 1977 (Annex 6).
Project costs are summarized below:
Base- Foreign
Total Project Cost               Line  Exchange
Components                Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreígn  Total  Costs   Costs
-(Ur$ '000 Millions)- -- (US$ Millions) --
On-Farm Investments
Pasture Improvement
Fertilizer  ..........  8.8    14.4    23.2    4.6       7.4    12.0      47    62
Seeds  ...............  1.3       1.5     2.8    0.6     0.8      1.4      5    60
Other .....3.3 .......            2.9     6.2    1.7      1.5     3,2     12   47
Fencing .............   2.3        1.2     3.5    1.2      0.6     1.8      7    33
Water Points .........  2.7        1.0     3.7    1.4      0.5     1.9      7    25
Machinery and
Equip_ment  ..........  2.6      2.5     5.1    1.3     1.3      2.6     10    50
Constructions and
Buildings  ..........  1.3       0.4     1.7    0.7     0.2      0.9      4    20
Sub-total  ........ 22.3    23.9    46.2   11.5    12.3    23.8        92    52
Contractor Machinery  ..  0.7       0.8     1.5    0.4      0.4     0.8      3    54
Technical Services   ....  1.0      1.3     2.3    0.5      0.7     1,2      5    58
Total Base-Line Costs .. 24.0    26.0    50.0   12.4    13.4    25.8    100    52
Contingencies
Physical  .............  2.4       2.6     5.0    1.3      1.3     2.6     10   52
Price                ...                          2.0      2.3     4.3           52
Sub-total   .......                           3.3     3.6      6.9           52
Total Project Cost  ....                          15.7    17.0    32.7            52



- 10 -
D. Financing
3.11      Financing of investment cost would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
------------------- US$ Millions  ----------------------
Sub-borrowers    BROU/LF         Bank          Total
Amount     %  Amount   %   Amount    %   Amount         %
On-Farm Investments            6.9      29    4.6   19    12.3    52    23.8        100
Contractor Machinery           0.2      25    0.2   21      0.4    52      0.8      100
Technical Services             0.0       0    0.5   42      0.7    58      1.2      100
Sub-total                 7.1     28    5.3   20    13.4    52    25.8        100
Contingencies .1.9                      28    1.4   20      3.6    52      6.9      100
Total Project Cost        9.0     28    6.7   20    17.0    52    32.7         100
As shown above, the Project would be financed from three sources:  (a) the
Bank loan of US$17 million, or 52% of Project cost, would cover all the
foreign exchange cost; (b) BROU/LF would contribute US$6.7 million, or 20%
of Project cost; and (c) sub-borrowers would finance US$9 million, or 28% of
Project cost. It was assured during negotiations that all sub-borrowers
would contribute at least 20% of the cost of their investment program.
3.12      The loan would be made to the Government at the current Bank lending
rate at the time of loan approval, for 15 years, including five years of
grace. The recommended term of the Bank loan and the grace period are based
on country considerations. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk and would make available to the LF local funds with which it would
rediscount loans made by BROU to sub-borrowers (para. 3.19).
E. Procurement
3.13      International competitive bidding following Bank Guidelines for
Procurement would be required in the procurement of vehicles, machinery and
equipment directly imported by PLAN whenever the size of individual contracts
exceeds US$100,000. PLAN would be encouraged to bulk together such items into
larger contracts whenever possible. Similar type contracts of less than
US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's internal pro-
curement procedures, which include local competitive bidding, acceptable to
the Bank. In contrast with previous livestock loans to Uruguay, international
competitive bidding would not be required in the procurement of fertilizer



- 11 -
and seeds, since the importation of these items would no longer be financed
directly by the proposed loan (para. 3.14). Sub-borrowers would procure
investment inputs through normal commercial channels. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that these procurement procedures would be
followed.
F. Disbursements
3.14      Since the subloan commitment period is expected to be two years
and individual farm development plans would require about one year to execute,
Bank disbursements are expected to occur over about 2.5 years (Annex 7). The
total size of the lending program (including physical and price contingencies)
for on-farm investments and contractor machir.ery is estimated at US$22.2
million, wíth a total foreign exchange cost of US$16.1 millíon, or 73%. Since
the Bank's objective is to cover the forelgn exchange cost, the Bank would
disburse 73% of all subloans made by BROU. In contrast with previous líve-
stock loana to Uruguay, the Bank in converting pesos to foreign currencies
would use the exchange rate existing at the mid-point of the month in which
subloans were made and not the exchange rate existing on the day the Bank
disbursement is actually made, which is the present practice. This revised
disbursement procedure will enable the Bank to achieve its objective of fully
covering the foreign exchange cost of the Project even though Uruguay is
following a policy of frequent minidevaluations.
3.15      For expenditures under the technical services category, the Bank
would finance the actual foreign exchange costs and the usual documentation
would be required. Disbursements for expenditures under on-lending categories
would be made against a certlficate of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the
Borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
Project supervision missions. Certification by BROU, the Central Bank and
the PLAN Technical Director would be required.
G. Organization and Management
3.16      The PLAN, an autonomous entity within the MAF, under the direction
of an Honorary Commission, would coordínate and supervise the on-iending
program  under the Project.  The President of the Honorary Commission, who
acts as the chief executive of PLAN, would be assisted by a Technical Director
and a Senior Agricultural Economist (para. 3.09). The PLAN technical staff
comprises about 100 university graduates, most of them located at 17 field
offices, to appraise subloan applications, supervise the end use of subloan
funds, and provide technical assistance. Four PLAN supervisors at field
offices have power to approve subloan applications wiíhout having to send
them to the main office in Montevideo.



- 12 -
3.17      Governnent would continue to provide the necessary funds to cover
administrative costs during the development period of the Project, but
PLAN would retain its autonomy in directing and supervising the Project.
3.18      The planning of farm investments by PLAN needs strengthening.  At
the present time, the investments proposed for the coming year are listed
but there is generally no attempt made to incorporate them into a long-term
farm development plan that would include projections of expected improvements
in technical coefficients as well as financial projections. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that PLAN would prepare annually detailed long-
term investment plans for at least 300 of the sub-borrower farms of which ap-
proximately 100 will be plans that include the purchase of livestock, that such
plans would include financial projections and projections of improvements
in technical coefficients, and that a monitoring system would be established
on 50% of these farms to measure progress in achieving Project objectives.
H. Lending Operations
3.19      The LF would rediscount loans granted by BROU under the Project
in accordance with the following schedule:
Reimbursed     Rediscount Rate    Interest Rates
Ranch/Farm Size            by LF (%)        to BROU (%)      to Sub-borrowers (%)
Up to 250 ha  .......       85                1.0                3.0
251 to 400 ha    ......     85                4.0                6.0
More than 400 ha   ...      85                6.0                8.0
Machinery Contractors .       85                6.0                8.0
The CB and BROU would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, providing for the CB to reimburse BROU out of the LF in accord-
ance with the above schedule for subloans made by BROU under the Project
following approval by PLAN on technical grounds. The Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment would also specífy that loans made to BROU by the CB from the LF would
be repayable by BROU within the same term provided by BROU to its sub-borrowers.
CB loans to BROU would be adjusted from time to time following the same system
as would be used by BROU to adjust subloans under the Project (para. 3.20).
It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the CB and BROU had signed
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
3.20      All subloans made to sub-borrowers under the Project would be in
accordance with the schedule given in paragraph 3.19. All subloans would
be adjusted on April 30 of each year by applying an index constructed by adding
to the value of the index at the end of the previous year the lower of the



- 13 -
percentage increase in (a) the average cost-of-living índex for the 12 months
ending on October 31 of the immediately preceding year, compared with the
average for the previous 12 months, or (b) the average price of 48 kg
liveweight of beef and 3.9 kg of wool during the 12 months ending on October
31 of the immediately preceding year, compared with the average for the
previous 12 months. Prepayments would be adjusted on an annual basis and
the final adjustment would have to await the release of the relevant indices
by Government. Repayment terms of subloans would reflect the ability of the
investment to servíce the debt. Terms would range from five to 10 years and
would include grace periods of up to five years. Any proposed subloan by
itself or when added to earlier subloans made to the same sub-borrower, either
under the proposed Project or earlier projects, in excess of US$100,000 would
require prior Bank approval. Assurances on the above lending terms and condi-
tions for subloans were obtained during negotiations.
3.21      These lending terms and conditions are the same as those existing
under the on-going Fourth Project, which is partially financed by Bank Loan
940-UR, except that in the proposed Project grace periods of up to five years
would be permitted in order to help sub-borrowers deal with the short-term
difficulties facing the livestock subsector. Five years of grace would be in
contrast wíth the maximum four years of grace permitted under Loan 940-UR.
Other lending terms and conditions would remain unchanged so as to encourage
ranchers and farmers to raise the level of investment in the livestock sub-
sector above that existing at present.
1.  Accounts and Auditin.
3.22      Separate Project accounts would be maintained by the CB for the
LF, by BROU and by PLAN. Accounting procedures for the LF and the PLAN are
generally satisfactory. While BROU's accounting procedures are satisfactory
in the main office, the same cannot be said concerning the branch offices
where most of the subloans are recorded. Little analysis is carried out
by BROU of data pertaining to Project subloans, with the result that informa-
tion needed for proper supervision is lacking. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that the Project Unit within BROU would
establish a new accounting system for Project accounts at the main office and
at branch offices that would accelerate processing of data and enable BROU
management to exercise effective control and that adequate staff and accounting
equipment would be assigned to implement effectively the new accounting system.
3.23      As under previous loans, auditing of the LF in the CB, project
accounts in BROU, and project accounts in the PLAN would be conducted by the
Tribunal de Cuentas of Uruguay or by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Auditing to date has been satisfactory. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations, that the same procedures would be followed and that certified
copies of financial statements and audit report would be furnished to the
Bank not later than four months after the end of the fiscal year.



- 14 -
IV. PRODUCTION, IIARKETS AND 14ARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      Due to retention of heifers to help herd build-up, production of
beef on sub-borrower ranches would actually decline for the first year, and
it would be about 1978 before the Project would contribute at all to the
beef output and exports of Uruguay. It would be the 1980s before the
Project would reach full development and the incremental beef production
would then be about 15,000 tons p.a. equivalent to about 5% of 1974 national
production. By the time incremental Project production reaches the world
market in substantial quantities (1980s), the present problems in the market
should have disappeared (paras 4.02 to 4.04). At full development in about
six years, incremental milk production would be about 13 million liters,
equivalent to about 2% of 1974 national production.
B. Markets and Marketing
Beef
4.02      The long-term market outlook for beef remains favorable despite
disruptions resulting from the import ban imposed by the EEC in September
1974 and the reduction of United States import demand due to temporary excess
supplies. The ratio of domestically produced beef to total requirements
(self-sufficiency ratio) in the EEC is expected to return to around 92% by
1980, leaving ample room for an expansion of exports by developing countries.
In the United States, though cattle numbers have continued to increase in
1974 and 1975, the structure of herds has changed in ways which make plausible
a trough in the meat production cycle by 1977/78 and a resumption of imports
at historical growth rates. Bank projections indicate that world beef supply
will fall short of demand within five years and deficits are likely to develop.
Given the long gestation period required for livestock projects, this is the
relevant consideration and not the present temporarily depressed state of the
market. Through 1985, beef prices in constant terms are expected to grow by
17% compared to 1974; however, no improvement is expected before 1978 (Annex
8).
4.03      In the short-term, the outlook depends primarily on the situation
in the EEC market. Currently, the self-sufficíency ratio of the EEC is
close to 100% and stocks of carcass beef are at historic highs. However,
policies to reduce excessive herd sizes (e.g., through slaughtering premiums)
and encourage the marketing of excess meat supplies are gradually restoring
the domestic supply/demand balance.



- 15 -
4.04      Although the adjustment of the internal market situation in the
EEC will probably take another full year, the EEC Commission is making every
effort to find ways of reopening the Community market to meat exports from
developing countries.  Furthermore, Brazil is an important market for
Uruguayan exports and the expectation is that its imports of beef will grow
rapidly in the next decade (Annex 8).
4.05      The meat processing plants are under heavy pressure to diversify
their production to ínclude canned, cooked, and special cuts so that they
would be able to penetrate new markets. In connection with the Third Live-
stock Project, the Bank reached agreement with the IDB that it would take
primary responsibility for financing the diversification and expansion of the
meat processing plants.  In 1970, the IDB made a US$13.4 million loan for this
purpose, but progress in disbursing the funds has been slow. Although some
of the meat processors carried out plant diversification and expansion, it is
evident that the investment activities so far undertaken have fallen short of
that recommended by the Bank-sponsored consultants in 1970. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that Government would define a plan of
action, including the proposed financing, for the meat processing industry
within six months of loan effectiveness.
Milk
4.06      Under the existing Fourth Project (Loan 940-UR), the Bank is financ-
ing a study to explore the possibilities of expanding dairy production and
exporting dairy products from Uruguay. Other Latin American countries are
likely to present the best prospects. The incremental production resulting
from this Project, however, would be readily absorbed domestically.
C. Producer Benefits
4.07      A summary of producer benefits, derived from representative pro-
duction models (Annexes 5 and 9), is given in the following table:



- 16 -
Investnent Model                         Beef/Sheep Ranch    Dairy Farm
Average size (ha)  .....    ...........       700                 75
Investment Cost (US$)  ..... .......        6,348              2,563
Net Family Income in Year 8 (US$)
With the Project ..... ........        9,160              3,227
Without the Project    ..........      8,021              2,278
Increment after Debt Service   ......       1,439                949
Debt Service (Short- and Long-term)         1,205                380
Financial Rate of Return on
Incremental Investment    ......          16%                22%
The financial rates of return should be sufficiently high to make these
investments attractive (Annex 9). Sub-borrowers would pay no taxes on their
increased income because there are no longer any income taxes in agriculture
but instead a presumptive land productivity tax (IMPROME). Returns to incre-
mental investment on beef/sheep ranches are sensitive to the level of the
export tax on beef. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Govern-
ment would maintain adequate incentives in the livestock subsector and specifi-
cally, that it would consult with the Bank prior to increasing export taxes on
livestock products above 10% of the value of the livestock exports in the
course of any calendar year.
v. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The proposed Project is of high príority because growth of the
Uruguayan economy is constrained by the availability of foreign exchange and
the livestock subsector contributes 72% of total export earnings (see also
para. 2.04).
5.02      The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at approximately 18%, assuming that beef export prices will follow the
Bank's projections detailed in Annex 8. The economic rate of return on the
dairy component is estimated at 20% and on the beef component at 17%. Should
beef prices be 10% lower than projected, then the economic rate of return
on the beef component would drop to 15% and on the overall Project to 16%
(Annex 10).



- 17 -
5.03      At full development, the incremental beef production of about 15,000
tons would virtually all be exported. The dairy component would help lay the
foundations for a dairying industry based on grass, an animal feed Uruguay
can produce relatively cheaply, and thus help to make Uruguay more self-
sufficient in dairy products. In the future, there is also reason to believe
that Uruguay could expand dairying into an export industry.
5.04      The Project would continue to introduce proven techniques of pasture
improvement and livestock production, and special emphasis would be placed
upon pasture conservation techniques to help make beef and milk production
less of a highly seasonal activity. It is crucial that this be based on a
sound technical, financial and economic footing, and, for this reason, assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would consult
with the Bank prior to reintroducing fertilizer subsidies. The Project would
emphasize in-service training of technicians in the preparation of ranch
development plans, and it would continue the monitoring program to measure
the impact of the on-lending program. Additionally, the Project would help
ensure the continuation of the major policy reforms introduced as a result
of previous projects.
5.05      The risk in this Project is that the investments projected may not
be made as scheduled due to the problems in the international beef market.
The problems in the EEC market have created a serious short-term problem for
Uruguay. The Government of Uruguay is presently negotiating with the Brazilian
Government in an effort to secure sizeable export contracts for 1975. If none
materialize, then Uruguay could suffer serious cattle losses this winter and
this could have major adverse effects on demand for loan funda in 1976. If
the market situation in Uruguay fails to improve in 1976 and 1977, then demand
for loan funds would be less than projected (para. 3.04). If tbis happens,
then the Bank loan would be disbursed more slowly than is now expected.
If the investments are made, however, and if the price of beef increases as
expected in the 1980s, then the risks that the returns to the economy would
be unsatisfactory are minimal.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(1) PLAN would have on its own staff for at least the first
five years of the Project a Technical Director and a
Senior Agricultural Economist, both of whom would be
suitably qualified and experienced and whose terms and
conditions of employment would be agreed upon in con-
sultation with the Bank (para. 3.09);



- 18 -
(ii)  PLAN would prepare detailed long-term investment plans for
for at least 300 of the sub-borrower farms of which approximately
100 will be plans that include the purchase of livestock, that
such plans would include financial projections and projections
of improvements in technical coefficients, and that a monitoring
system would be established on 50% of these farms to measure
progress in achieving Project objectives (para. 3.18);
(iii) the Project Unit within BROU would establish a new accounting
system for Project accounts at the main office and at branch
offices that would help accelerate data processing and enable
BROU to exercise effective control, and that adequate staff
and accounting equipment would be assigned to implement ef-
fectively the new accounting system (para. 3.22);
(iv)  it would define a plan of action, including the proposed
financing, for the meat processing industry within six
months of loan effectiveness (para. 4.05);
(v) it would maintain adequate incentives in the livestock
subsector and specifically that it would consult with the
Bank prior to increasing export taxes on livestock products
above 10% of the value of the livestock exports in the course
of any calendar year (para. 4.07); and
(vi)  it would consult with the Bank prior to establishing fertilizer
subsidies (para. 5.04).
6.02      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the CB and
BROU had signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19).
6.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$17 million for a term of 15 years, including
a five-year grace period. The recommended term of the Bank loan and the grace
period are based on country considerations.
September 19, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
A. General
Climate
1.        The climate is temperate and fairly homogenous, although it is less
equable further from the sea and at higher latitudes. Maximum summer
(December-January) temperatures range between 25°C and 35°C, while during the
coldest months of the winter (June-August) maximum temperatures are generally
from 5°C to 10°C. Frosts may occur on between 10 to 30 days a year, but these
are not usually severe. In the south,, occasional hail storms can cause
damage to crops. Rainfall is irregular in distribution and amount which
generally totals from 1,000 to 1,300 mm a year.
Topography
2.        With no point higher than 500 m above sea level and an average
altitude of 140 m, Uruguay's gently rolling topography provides ideal con-
ditions for pastures and livestock but the exposure to steady winds limits
the possibilities for crop production. Windbreaks are necessary and con-
servation measures are required to prevent soil erosion.
Soils
3.        The general characterístics of soils are as follows:
-----Area---
Soil Category                                     '000 ha           %
Shalloxw soils                                          5,450          32.5
Badly drained soils                                        850          5.0
Deep soils, medium texture, slow
permeability, medium to low fertility                 4,800          28.6
Deep soils, light texture, low fertility                 2,500         15.0
Deep soils, heavy texture, slow to moderate
permeability and high to medium fertility             3,180          18.9
Total                                           16,780         100.0



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Size of Holdings and Land Tenure
4.        According to the 1970 Agricultural Census, ranches of over 2,500
ha, which constituted only 1.5% of the total number of holdings (77,200),
occupied 32.3% of the total farming area, while 73% of the number of holdings
were of less than 100 ha but these accounted for only 7.6% of the total land
farmed. In the same year 67% of the land was occupied by owners, 29% by
tenants and 4% by sharecroppers, squatters and others (Table 1). Adequate
legislation protects tenants through contracts which are guaranteed for at
least five years and, at the request of the tenant, for up to eight years.
Tenants are able to obtain loans from the Banco de la Republica (BROU) but
they are usually reluctant to invest in long-term farm or ranch developments.
Types of Farming and Land Use
5.        There are four major types of farm operations in Uruguay:
(a)  Extensive and semi-intensive livestock raising in the
northern, central and eastern regions;
(b)  Extensive arable and mixed farming in the west and
southwest regions;
(c)  Intensive arable farming in areas around Montevideo; and
(d) Dairy farming in areas around Montevideo and its neighboring
departments of San Jose, Florida, Canelones and Lavalleja.
6.        Over 90% (16.8 million ha) of the land of Uruguay is used for farm-
ing purposes. Of the total farm area, according to the 1970 Agricultural
Census, 89.7% was under pasture, 7.7% under crops and the remainder (2.6%)
was wasteland. The two main categories of land use were broken down in the
1970 Agricultural Census as follows:
Pasture Land                          Agricultural Land
('000 ha)                               ('000 ha)
Natural                 12,800             Field Crops             1,035
Improved                   829             Vegetables                 62
Forage Crops               413             Fruits                     48
Others                     776             Other                     131
Total              14,818                                    1,276
Livestock
7.        Accordíng to a survey carried out in 1974 by the Ministry of
Agrículture and Fisheries (MAF) the national livestock population was as
follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Million Head
Beef Cattle  -  mainly Hereford                10.1
Dairy Cattle -  mainly Holstein                 0.7
Subtotal                                 10.8
Sheep        -  mainly Corriedale              15.4
Pigs          -  mainly Duroc                   0.5
The combination of beef cattle and sheep for wool production is the predominant
farm system throughout most of the extensive and semi-intensive livestock
raising regions.
Crops
8.        Crop production is principally under rain-fed conditions although
there are about 42,000 ha of irrigated rice and sugarcane. The arable crops
may be grouped according to the sowing season.
(a) Winter sowing - between June and August: Wheat, forage oats,
malting barley, linseed and sugar beet; and
(b) Spring sowing - in September and October: Sunflower, forage
sorghum and maize.
In some areas of the south, double cropping is possible with vegetables follow-
ing winter-sown crops.
9.        According to the area estimated by MAF to have been planted during
the 1974175 season, the following are the principal arable crops of Uruguay:
Area Sown       Production         Yield
('000 ha)       ('000 ton)       (kg per ha)
Wheat                  283               297            1,048
Maize                  193               225            1,169
Sorghum                100               193            1,924
Sunflower               91                48              532
Oats                    78                55              708
Linseed                 42                26              619
Rice                    42               166            3,950
10.       There are considerable annual variations in the area planted in
response to changes in market prices, government policies and climatic con-
ditions. For example, cereal production dropped by 19% in 1972 and 14% in
1973, the production of oílseeds fell by 5% in 1971, and, although it improved
in 1972, it was still 22% lower than in 1966 (Table 2).



ANNEX 1
Page 4
B.  Production and Marketing
Beef
11.       Beef production (domestic consumption, exports and changes in in-
ventories) has been increasing since 1967 at an average annual rate of 7%
and in 1973 was equivalent to 762,290 tons liveweight. Domestic consumption
has exceeded 80 kg per capita in some years (1961, 1964,1968 and 1974) which
has restricted the amount of beef available for export. Government policies
applied through pricing regulations and bans on consumption during certain
periods have been successful in restraining consumption which in 1973 account-
ed for 64.2% of total disposals, equivalent to 65.8 kg per capita (Table 3).
Beef Disposals ('000 tons on the hook)            Domestic Consum2ption
For Domestic      For                  Percent of       Kg annual per
Year   Consumption    Export    Total       Total Disposals        Capita
1970       205          149        354            57.9              71.0
1971       176           90        266            66.2              60.4
1972       163          114        277            58.8              55.0
1973       197          110        307            64.2              65.8
1974       206          114        320            64.4              86.7
12.       Breeding cows and feeder steers are traded after visual inspection at
the market places, but the Government intends to introduce the use of weighing
scales to ensure fairer prices. There are more than 400 cattle markets
scattered throughout the country, at each of which there are between 40 and
60 buyers. Slaughter cattle are sold almost exclusively to the slaughterhouses
under strict Government standards and regulations and are paid for at a fixed
price set by the Government. Beef cattle slaughtered in export slaughterhouses
are paid for on a cold dressed weight (c.d.w.) basis. These slaughterhouses
account for about 90% of the registered slaughterings or about 60% of the
total. There is a quality premium for superior cattle, but while there are
seven grades there are only two different prices. In the past, slaughterhouses
have paid ranchers directly for the cattle but payments have often been delayed
for over four months. Now BROU finances slaughtering operations and pays
ranchers directly within a maximum period of 30 days. The system is coordinated
by the Instituto Nacional de la Carne (INAC), the technical agency which controls
quality and meat export operations.
13.       After the financial breakdown of the meat industry in 1971, the
Government assumed an increasing role as controller and financing agent.
With effect from August 23, 1973, it took control of the meat industry, oper-
ating through the interministerial agency, INAC, for technical matters and
BROU for financial and administrative matters. Hygiene and inspection
services were also modified and taken over by the Government in order to
improve the quality of the products required by the international market.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
14.       The meat industry has two types of plant:  the traditional slaughter-
houses, which are Governnent operated (Nacional, Artigas, Victoria, Fray Bentos),
and the new industry formed by the privately owned, small and more efficient
plants scattered throughout the country. The traditional plants are located
close to the embarkation points (Montevideo and Fray Bentos) while some of
the new plants are located within the livestock producing areas. There are
eight slaughterhouses around Montevideo and five slaughterhouses in other
parts of the country. The Government has been encouraging decentralization
of the meat industry and the construction of smaller and more efficient plants
rather than gigantic ones like Nacional and Fray Bentos, where management
tends to be more politically oriented. Investments supported by the Govern-
ment and the private sector have been projected to reach US$30.5 million, out
of which US$15.2 million have been made since 1969 (Table 4). These improve-
ments already have been successful and the United Kingdom has lifted a ban
previously imposed on Uruguayan meat due to poor hygienic conditions.
15.       Although much has been achieved in the modernization of slaughter-
houses, the Government is aware of two important drawbacks: the inadequate
cold storage capacity and the lack of cooking facilities that would permit
the country to diversify beef sales, especially in periods of sluggishness in
the market. Since the beginning of 1974, market conditions in Europe have
been unfavorable for beef, but there are hopes that the level of demand will
improve in the latter part of 1976, although in the short run in real terms
international prices are likely to deteriorate (Annex 8).
Milk
16.       As can be seen from the following Table, annual gross milk produc-
tion has been between 600 and 750 million liters throughout the period 1961
to 1974, about 59% is sold for liquid milk consumption and 38% for process-
ing.
Gross Production
Year               (million liters)              Index
(1961 = 100)
1961                      750                     100.0
1962                      742                      98.9
1963                      758                     101.1
1964                      740                      98.7
1965                      714                      95.2
1966                      720                      96.0
1967                      600                      80.0
1968                      660                      88.0
1969                      740                      98.7
1970                      742                      98.9
1971                      690                      92.0
1972                      693                      91.0
1973                      700                      93.3
1974                      710                      94.7
Source:   1961-1972 - MAF-OPYPA and Central Bank
1973-1974 - USDA-FAO



ANNEX 1
Page 6
17.       The area supplying Montevideo is the most important milk producing
region of the country and has about 4,350 dairy farms with over 107,000
milking cows. Most of the milk produced in all the areas mentioned ís
marketed by the cooperative society CONAPROLE.
C. Prices, Taxes and Subsidies
Prices
18.       The Government has attempted to regulate the prices of the majority
of agricultural products although not for fruit and vegetables. The purpose
has generally been to hold down the cost of living in urban areas, but there
have also been attempts to induce higher production by setting minimum
prices. Individual decisions on agricultural prices often have not been
consistent with a coherent policy; however, during the course of the live-
stock projects financed in part by the Bank, considerable progress has been
made in rationalizing the price and taxation policies affecting the profit-
ability of the production of beef (Annex 4).
Taxes
19.       Two types of taxes are levied on producers:
(a) Taxation levied on factors of production:
(1) IMPROME is a tax on the assumed minimum potential
production of land. It was introduced in 1967 but
could not be fully applied until the completion in
1974 of the assessment of the productivity of all farm
land in Uruguay.
(ii) Land tax and rural rental surcharge is based on an
assessment of land value and its rentable value.
(iii) Social security surcharge and accident insurance
premium which are payable in equal parts by the
employer and employee.
(iv) Banking surcharge paid on short-term borrowings at
6% of the value of each loan.
(b) Taxes levied on the volume of sales:
(i)  Taxes and retentions levied on beef exports.
(ií) Revenue stamps and intermediate sales taxes are
charged as appropriate on permits, transactions and
sales.



kNN EX 1
Page 7
Taxation revenue from the agricultural sector is shown in Table 5.
20.       A study by the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion (INC) has shown
that in fiscal year 1972/73, the total incidence of taxes as a percentage
of gross income varied from 6.32% for farmers having up to 500 ha and up to
24.68% for ranches of 20,000 ha. The full application of the IMPROME tax
will probably increase the incidence of taxation on ranches of over 2,500 ha
(Table 6).
D.  Agricultural Services
Research
21.       The MAF is responsible for the National Center for Agricultural
Research (NCAR), which has its main research station at La Estansuela in the
southwest region. There are five associated regional research stations, two
of which in the north and east are directly engaged in activities related to
the Plan Agropecuaro (PLAN). Services provided by stations of the NCAR to
PLAN include seed certification and technical advice on animal nutrition
and crop production. In addition, the Rubino Laboratories of MAF conducts
research on animal diseases and nodulating bacteria (Rhizobium) for the
treatment of legume seeds.
Extension
22.       PLAN is the only Government organization which employs extension
agents who provide advice to ranchers on pasture and livestock management
and assist in the preparation of ranch development plans for submission to
BROU.  The recently formed Honorary Commissions for citrus and small farm
production may eventually also provide farm extension services. For a few
crops, such as sugarcane, sugar beet and malting barley, the associated
processing industries provide some extension services for farmers.
Education and Training
23.       The Faculty of Agriculture at the University of the Republic of
Uruguay usually has an annual output of about 50 agricultural graduates;
however, since the University was closed for two years up to January 1974,
there is currently a discontinuity in the number graduating each year. There
is a UNDP/FAO program to improve and diversify the curriculum which has
neglected agronomy and agricultural engineering while concentrating on topics
directly related to livestock production. Intermediate level agricultural
training has been provided by vocatíonal schools under the Universidad del
Trabajo but, the output from these courses has not been well utílized because
of a lack of job opportunities and some deficiencies in the composition of
the curriculum.
May 21, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH L2VESTOCK DBVELOP!ENT PROJECT
General Ioforwation 0n the Rural Sector
Síze of Roldia Chal
Total        1-4         5-9       10-19       20-49       50-99      100-199    200-4'9   500-994  1,000-2,499 2.500-4.993 5.900-S,999    1U,0H
Toial Agricu-ltural Are& ('000 ha)  16,517.73        29.96       80.10     168.61      411.17      559.40      930.83   2,133.40   2,560.56   4,304.84   2,962,80   1,643.71          732.35
Total aumber of holdings             77,163      11,085     11,897      12,259      13,071       7.927      6,603       6,374       3,626       2,784         869         253          55
'i of Area                            100.0         0.2         0.5        1.0         2.5         3.4         5.6       12.9        15.5        26.1        17.9        10.0         4.4
G/ of Land holdings                   100.0        14.4        15.4       15.9        16.9        10.3         8.6        8.7         4.7         3.6         1.1         0.3         0.1
1 _Tondre ('000 ha)
Own,er                             10,993          21          56        110         247         325        513       1,193       1,542       2,871       2,170      1.290          652
Re.ter                              4,796           3          11         37         122         184        340         784         894       1,281         749        322           68
,harecropper                          288           1           5          7          12          17          32         78          61          52          12           8           1
sy,atrer (Occ.pant>                   275           3          6          11          23          24         30          52          40          51          20          4           10
ilher                                 165           1           1          2           6           9          14         27          23          50          10          19           2
'AiraI Popolátion
318,166     39,464      43,644      46,764     51,045      31,364      26,411      27,834     16,298    17,145        10,068       4,502       3,627
Ouners                             17,998       2,726      2,970       2,898       2,830       1,574      1,177       1,176         757        872          491        301         226
Reoler                             ó6,060         420        597         914       1,276         782        673         ó47         320        279          118         29           5
Shiarecroppers                        893         112        246         204         137          67         53          48          14         10            -           2
Iijher                              6,864         688         551        660         862         713        738         912         539        553          398         lis        132
Iab,orers                           181,206      17,158     21,469      24,632      27,427      17,423     15,363      17,817      11,838    14,138         7,378      4,349       2,214
Prodocers
Cooperatíve merbera                15,999         788      1,226       1,369       2,184      1,982       2,166       2,705       1,646       1,359        434         120          20
Rural A8sociation Members           8,606         622        915       1,009       1,098         821        849       1,083          808        903         346         121          31
Farm Mechanization
Tractors (frac  18 hp to 65 hp)   29,577          849      2,183       2,954       4,253       3,721      3,930       4,494       2,689      2,664       1,129         507         204
Percentage of holdinge with
tractor                              3¿          8          18          24         33          47          60          71          74         96         130         200         371
Fcrtilizer Usage
Holdings that use fertílizer       26,043       2,630      4,338       4,769       4,538      2,516       2,121       2,240       1,262      1,159          336        104          30
Percentage                           34          24         37          39          35         32          32          33         35          42          39          41          56
Area' fertilized ('000 ha)          1,030.47        4.35      13.76       20.47       35.48      41.91       66,50      148.69      161.41      271.82      126.53      86.71       54.84
Percenrage                            6          15         17          12           8          8           '7          7           6          6           4           5           8
oq1ree: 1970 Agricult.ral Censu8.                                                       
February 3, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 2
URUGUAY
FIFTI LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJ2CT
Production of Major Agricultural Grops (1969-1974) 1/
(Tons '000)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Cereals
Wheat                  470     447      529     302      187     297
Maize                  129     189      166     141      229     225
Rice                   134     139      122     128     137      166
Malting Barley          42      34       40      29       27      28
Sorghum                 51      36       72      57     225      193
Oats                    73      38       78      60      59       55
Oilseeds
Sunflower               63      52       49      60       71      48
Linseed                 56      90       42      43       29      26
Other Crops
Sugarbeet              484     275      451     342      371     428
Sugarcane               87     108      159     167     267      197
Potatoes               138     106      150     106     133      129
1/ Year relates to crop year end.
Source: OPYPA
May 21, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef Production, Consumption and Exports
Beef Production             Average Yield per    Percentage of Beef    Per Capita
Year     Consumption    Exports    Total      Head Clean Carcass   Production Consumed   Consumption
('OOO tons on the hook)                (kg)                                     (kg)
1951        187           112         299            200                   62.5               84.O
1952        189            79         268            202                   70.5               83.6
1953        184           111         295            206                   62.3               80.2
1954        183           107         290            211                   74.3               78.6
1955        184            35         219            211                   84.0               77.9
1956        190            62         252            217                   75.4               79.3
1957        188            56         244            200                   77.0               77.4
1958        200            39         239            226                   83.7               81.2
1959        194            52         246            227                   78.8               77.6
1960        191            88         279            223                   68.5               75.3
1961        207            69         276            233                   75.0               80.5
1962        185            88         273            215                   67.8               70.7
1963        198            98         296            218                   67.5               73.0
1964        218           163         381            213                   57.2               81.b
1965        213            97         310            193                   68.0               78.3
1966        184            69         253            229                   72.7               67.0
1967        187            65         252            219                   7L.2               67.1
1968        227           112         339            212                   67.0               80.4
1969        221           123         345            220                   64.0               77.5
1970        205           149         354            194                   57.9               71.0
1971        176            90         266            183                   66.2               6o. 1
1972        163           114         277            213                   58.8               55.0
1973        197           110         307            222                   64.2               65.8
197t11      206           114         320                                  64.4               86.7          H t,
(D X<
WO H
Source: MAF-OPYPA and CB.
/1 Preliminary figures.
September 16, 1975



URUGUAY
PIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat Industry Investments inder the-IDB Loan (Us$ '000)
(Period 1969 to 1973)
Investments as of September 1973                   Investments to be Made
Meat Packing Plants                Local_        Foreign!j    Total                Local        Foreigp         otal
Comargen                          2,484.6          371.8       2,856.4              664.8       1,250.0      1,914.8
Tacuarembo                        1,355.1          245.3       1,600.4              394.7         630.0      1,024.7
Codadesa                            488.4          143.6         632.0              6o1.o         560.o      1,161.0
Cruz del Sur                        591.1          110.9         702.0              220.0         410.0        630.0
Carrasco                          2,181.3        1,365.4       3,546.7            1,672.9       1,594.5      3,297.14
Cybaran                           1,716.6          121.4       1,838.0              691.0         860.0      1,551.o
Canelones                         1,235.3          213.7       1,449.0               351.8         430.0        781.8
Inprogan                            403.3           49.7         453.0               271.6        481.3        752.9
San Jacinto                       1,138.7          669.5       1,808.2              626.5         552.7      1,179.2
Infrinsa                            280.1                        280.1            1,908.2       1,100.0      3,p08.2
TOTAL                    11.874.5        3.291.3      15,165.8             12.5         7898.       15,301.0
1/ Financed with IDB loan.
Source:   Instituto Nacional De La Carne (INAC).
Pebruary 3, 1975



ANNEX 1
URUGUAJ                                Table 5
FIFTH LIVESTOCK EVEZLOP1ENT PROJECT
Taxation Revenue frct the Agricultural Sector
(Ur$ Mlllion-Constant 1972 Prices)
1971              17
Taxes levied on the Productían Factors              Aiiount    %      Aiount       %
1IR\PR.OME 1/                                     1,471.0    8.5    5,183.9       23.5
Social Security Surcharge 2,'                     2,438.3   14.0    3,035.1       13.8
Accident  TIsurance  J                               464.o    2.7      576.5        .6
,Housing Surcharge  /                                270.9    1.6      961.6       1.2
Rural rent   surcharge  /                            153.6    0.9      135.G       0.6
Land tax 1/                                       3,100.0   17.8   4,369.1J    19.9
Bankirng surcharge 6/                             2,401.5   13.7    2,529.5       11.5
Taxes levied on Volume of Sales
Export taxes 7/                                      185.1    1.1      348.7       1.6
Rententions 87                                    1,850.4   10.6    1,514.2        6.9
Stanaps 9/                                        1,774.4   10.2    1,663.2        7.6
Sales (Intermediato) 10/                          3,294.4   18.8    2,371.7       10.8
Gross Iricorne 11/                                    10.1    0.1        7.8       0.0
Total Taxes                                       17,4i3.7  100.3   21,996.3    100.0
1/ Paid by producer whether he owns or rents.
2/  Paid by producer and the laborer or! a 50/50 basis.
j/ Paid by producer.
!X/ Paid by owner based on real land value as assesed by Government on a per hectare
basis plus   10% on rent value.
¿/  Paid by owner on the basis of real value or assesed value on 80% increase,including
ranch property, equipment, etc.
6/  Paid on short-term borrowings (6% of value of loan).
1/  Paid by producers on the basis of cattle sold.  Does not accrue for IMPROME deductioms
It has been eliminated
8/  Paid by producers on the basis of volume.  It does qualify for IMPROME payments.
9/ All transactions and permits.
10/ Paid on intermediate but nc finql sales.
íT/  Paid on the basis of grcss income and it has been integrated into the IMPROME tax.
.!ource: Ministry of Finance - Department of Agricultural Ec«iomics Research.
office of Tax Revenue and Central Bank.
November 4, 1974



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tax Incidence on Size of L.nd Holding.
Estimated                    Type of Tax aud Taxation as a % of Gros. Income  (ner ha)                    Tax Credit for                Land Use
Size and                Groas incoue 1/       IMPROME     Property      Land Tax      Elementary      Social         Total        Invastments sade            Assumptions (Z)
Type of Farm (ha)             Ur$ (per ha)                                                Education      Security      Taxation      on the ranch (per hh      Agriculture    Livestock
Mixed farming
500                         27,247              2.35         0,90           1.42         0.14           1.51          6.32         1i.1           275           11             89
1,000                         24,486              3.70         1.21           1.58         0.21           1.67          8.37          1.59          389            7             93
2,500                         22,115              5.61         1.82           1.75         0.24           1.85         11.27          2.40          531            4             96
Extensive raoching
5,000                         19,300             10.75         2.73           2.01         0.27           2.12         17.88          1.38          266           --            100
10,000                         18,774             13.66         3.74           2.06         0.28           2.18         21.92          0.71          133           --            100
20,000                         18,149             15.48         4.52           2.13         0.29           2.26         24.68          0.36           66           --            100
For the FY 72/73 only. These figures change from year to year.  Further changes will come when
COIqEAT's production indexes are used for IMPROE. These figures vere calculated on averaSe yielde
of wheat and corn for agriculture and on beef, mutton and vool for livestock at prices prevailing
in 1972/73. Average yields were adjusted for size of enterprise.
21   As a percentage of gross incoae per hectare.
Soarce: Taxation Presaure by Size of Lend Holdingg (I¡C, 1973).
Noveeiber 18, 1974



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Exports, by Groups of Products
(F. 0. B. values in US$ million)
Group                            1969      1970       1971      1972      1973      1974
Wool (greased, washed)                     42.7       47.5      43.5      32.9      56.9       63.2
Meat and by-products                       62.1       87.8      69.8     102.9     127.4    135.6
Hides and skins                            23.9       24.4      21.5      22.9      25.8       23.9
Spun and woven goods (wool)                31.1       31.8      26.9      27.3      52.2       34.0
Unprocessed agricultural products            7.2       1.0       8.0       1.2       4.4       10.3
Processed agricultural products             19.2      20.1      17.6      11.2      27.4       41.3
Live animals                                 2.2       2.8       2.8       1.9       1.4        3.9
Sub-Total Agricultural                    188.4    115.4    190.1    200.3         295.5      312.2
Extractive Industries                        2.2       2.5       1.8       1.4       1.6        2.1
Other Industries                             9.7      14.8      14.0      12.4      24.4       48.9
TOTAL                                200.3    232.7       205.9    214.1    321.5    363.2
Source:   Banco Central del Uruguay.
April 22, 1975



--NNEX 2
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services - Plan Agropecuario
Background
1.        The Plan Agropecuario (PLAN) was established in 1959 to help improve
the technology of the agricultural enterprises by providing technical and
economic assistance to the rural producers to increase the production of
livestock products.  Its work started in 1961 in conjunction with the effec-
tiveness of Bank Loan 245-UR and it has since administered all the Bank live-
stock projects in Uruguay. It, basically. helps farmers prepare suitable
ranch plans, recommends subloans to the Bank of the Republic (BROU), and
provides technical services and supervision during the disbursement period.
The PLAN also provides extension services to non-borrower ranchers and supports
applied research in pasture development and pasture seed production.
Management
2.        The PLAN is directed by an Honorary Commission of eight members:
fíve delegates from varíous farmers' organizations and one representative
each from the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), BROU, and the
Central Bank (CB) (World Bank Chart 8900). The President is elected by the
Com=ission with the approval of the Government. The Commission meets once
a week and the president and the Technical Director are responsible for
carryíng out its decísions. Terms of the delegates are four and five years
to provide continuity. The Commission has autonomy and its members, as its
name indicates, receive no remuneration. Administrative expenses are financed
by Government through the annual budget of MAF. Under its law, PLAN ís
authorized to make withdrawals from its budget, and disbursements have thus
always been effícient and without bureaucratic delays. PLAN's operations in
programs of extension, demonstration and consultant studies, as well as in
the purchase of vehicles, spare parts and related equipment, are partly
financed by Bank loans (foreign expenditures).
3.        PLAN ls responsible for the supply of seeds and raw materials for
fertilízers to be used for pasture ímprovement, both under the project and
outsíde the project. Private companies, under contract, handle procurement,
bagging, and distribution of seeds under PLAN's supervision. PLAN also
supervises the procurement of fertilizers and raw materials carried out by
contracted importer/manufacturers.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Technical and Administrative Services
4.        The technical staff comprises a Technical Director and a Senior
Agricultural Economist, a Deputy Technical Director, a Technical Secretary,
a Registered Accountant, 100 technicians, 20 administrative staff members
and five service clerks. About 80 of the technicians are located in the fíeld
at area, regional and local offices. PLAN does not have a regular office
network, but instead locates its personnel in field offices usually situated
in buildings maintained by the ranchers' associations or in MAF's regional
offices. The technicians work very closely with the ranchers and farmers.
At the field offices, they are equipped with vehiclees, and most of the tech-
nicians operate their own fartms, particularly when they líve in the area to
which they are assigned. Salaries in general are higher than those for com-
parable jobs in other Government offices.
5.        PLAN's Technical Director and the Senior Agricultural Economist, by
agreement with the Bank, are internationally recruited. The last Technical
Director, however, left his post about two years ago upon completion of his
contract and PLAN has been directed by the President and Deputy Technical
Director ever since. Another Technical Director has now been selected and
is expected to be on the job by late 1975. The Senior Agricultural Economist
is responsible for organizing the Economics Studies and Rural Administration
Department. This Department, with two qualified local technicians at head-
quarters and six assistants in the field offices, and in cooperation with the
Ministry of Agriculture and other entities, gathers necessary data and other
information to maintain a constant assessment of Project operational results
and of economic and technical developments in the country's livestock subsector.
6.        PLAN's accounting procedures and administration capabilities im-
proved after a registered accountant was engaged, but weaknesses remain that
have to be dealt with. PLAN has recently acquired adequate office space in
Montevideo, but it still needs additional furniture and equipment, as well
as a number of vehicles for its increased field staff.  Out of a total of
114 vehicles, 46 (40%) have run more than 200,000 km and the remaining 68
have reached almost 100,000 km.
7.        In spite of a general reduction in administrative budgets for Govern-
ment offices, PLANIs budgets for 1974 and 1975 were increased in recognition
of its effectiveness and to prevent high staff turnover. This would indicate
a measure of the importance and prestige that the agency enjoys within Govern-
ment spheres. Bank funds would cover the foreign exchange costs of the
Project's Technical Services (Table 1).
8.        Proceeds of the Bank loan would cover the foreign excange costs of
Project Technical Services. Included under such services would be the
Technical Director and the Senior Agricultural Economist (expatriates),
training program, vehicles and spare parts, accounting and office equipment
for PLAN and BROU offices, and short-term specialísts, as well as materials
and equipment to be used for trials and demonstrations (details and costs
are in Table 1).
September 18, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Investment Cost (Ur$ Millions)
Total
----Years------    Total    Foreign Exchange
1        2      Cost       %       Cost
Technical Director ...............         ......    93  93  186     80      149
Senior Agricultural Economist ........    77        78      155      80      124
1/
Training Program ......................   194      194      388      70      272
Vehic1es2        .       .  ........ ,136          136      272      74       201
Accounting and Office Equipment ......    29        29       58      74       43
Technical Assistance, Demonstration
Materials and EquipmentYV .........   634       635    1 269       a      561
Sub-total ........          1,164  1.                  2 *1
Physical Contingencies (10%) .........   116       117      233      5_8_    -135
Total Cost ....... 1,280    1,281    2         561  58   L.-85
1/  PLAN would increase its staff, and training would have to increase
to a 20-man program over the two years of the project.
2/  PLAN vehicles are old and purchase of 25 new ones a year is
necessary to decrease maintenance cost and to cover the needs of
new staff members (20 technicians over the two years).
3/  PLAN offices would have to be improved and equipped for better management.
May 25, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services (Ur$ million)
Operating Costs
--------------Year------------------
1        2         3-5       6-10
Technical Director ............ -         -       27.9        9.3
Senior Agricultural Economist.  -         -       23.4        7.8
Operational Expenses
and Salaries h............          _       243.4      121.6
Total                           294.7       138.7
1/  Includes salaries, maintenance and operating costs
of vehicles, office rental, travel, office supplies, etc.
May 25, 1974



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLAN AGROPECUARIO
ORGANIZATION CHART
|HONORARY COMMISSION FOR THE
PLAN AGROPECUARIO
(8 MEMBERS. INCLUD ING THE PRESIDENTI
. EXECUTIVE                                                                         EXECUTIVE
TECHNICAL                                                         --             SECRETARY
DIRECTOR
SENIOR                                                                   DPT
AGRICULTURAL
ECONOMIST           _
ECONOMIC STUDIES                            SO                   FARMPASMNENI
AND                    EXTENSION            PRODUCTION           OPARIONS              VATER               ANO                  AGRICULTURAL
RURAL A Mi                                                       D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPARTMENI  EErLMN        MACHINERY            ADMINISTRATION        ACCOUNTANT
NIURALTGI              OEANMET              ISBIUTION            DEPRMN                                                         DEPARTMENT          ASSISTANT
DEPARTMENT                                  OEPARTMENT                                                    PROGRAM
AREA
HEADS
r   REGIONAL   |                                                               |  AGMINISTRATIVE        BOOKKEEPERS
HEADS                                                                                  RKS
| IEUD STAFF
BUDGET ANO                                                         FIELO
| RECORDS                                                        TECHNICIANS
1 Nol esteolol,Od oYe                                                                                                                                     Woeld Bn1-R900IR)






ANNEX 3
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System
A. Introduction
1.        The Uruguayan banking system consists of five Government-owned banks
and 27 private commercial banks, eight of which are branches of foreign insti-
tutions. Of the Government banks, the most important ones are the Central Bank
(CB) and the Bank of the Republic (BROU). The other three are--the Mortgage
Bank, the National Postal Savings Bank, and the State Insurance Bank. There
is no comprehensive banking system law; BROU operates in accordance with its
organic law of January 1939 and the many additions and modifications thereto,
while CB functions in accordance with the 1967 Uruguayan Constitution and its
further legal amendments and additions. Steps to provide new laws for both
BROU and CB are being taken and final drafts await Government action.
2.        Over the past 15 years, inflation has been a characteristic of the
Uruguayan economy. In 1959 the exchange rate of the Uruguayan peso (Ur$)
ranged from 2.10 to 7.03 per US dollar, depending on whether it was an
official or a free rate, and it rose to Ur$ 250 per US dollar in April 1968.
In March 1972, the Government adopted a policy of mini-devaluations, and by
July 1975 the exchange rate increased to about Ur$ 2300 per US dollar.
3.        Inflation, deterioration of the economy, and restrictive credit
policies have caused the private banking sector considerable problems in re-
cent years. Since early 1970, 21 private commercial banks have declared
bankruptcy, closed business or have been liquidated or absorbed by CB and
BROU, although the 27 that are left--down from 48 in 1969--are probably still
more than is needed for a population of around 3 million people and a GDP of
US$2,500 million per annum.
B. The Central Bank
General
4.        The CB was established in 1967 when the new Constitution required
that the Issue Department of BROU be separated from its parent organization
and set up to function independently as a central bank. Since that time, CB



ATNNEX 3
Page 2
has taken over various regulatory functions from BROU, such as the handling of
most official exchange transactions and the custody of comnmercial banks'
reserve deposits, but at the time the appraisal mission visited Uruguay, the
Government had not yet approved a unified organic law for CB so that it still
is governed by a great number of legal dispositions, including the 1939
organic law of BROU.
Organization and Management
S.        CB is directed by a three-member Board of Directors appointed by
the President of the country in agreement with the Council of Ministers
(Chart World Bank 8901). A General Manager, a General Auditor and Legal
Department comprise the bank's executive level, with five divisions reporting
to the General Manager: (a) the Financial Administration Division, divided
into three Departments -- Credit, Treasury, and Public; (b) the Foreign Business
Division; (e) the Economic Studies Division; (d) the Accounting Administration
Division; and (e) the Bankíng System Controller Division. The Livestock Fund
(para 7) for the financing of Bank projects is located in the Accountíng
ndmíntstration Division.  The CB is still in the process of consolidating its
organization and has not yet settled the patrimonial accounts derived when it
was separated from BROU.
6.        Besides its responsibilities in connection with money issuance,
supply and control, CB is empowered to conduct all the functions typical of
central banks. Main activities, however, are related to stabilization measures
such as (a) control of interest rates to be paid for deposits or charged for
institutional credit; (b) changes in the legal reserve ratios of the banks;
(e) foreign exchange rates and transactions; (d) financing through rediscount
operations; and (e) administration of the funds derived from the Bank Loans
for the Livestock Development Project. CB is organizing a division for the
control and external audit of the banking systemn, with the intention that it
will replace the Tribunal de Cuentas (State Audit Board) in such duties.
The Lívestock Development Fund (LF)
7,        By law passed on January 1970, CB was made administrator of project
funds. To this effect, CB established the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero) in
September 1970 as a separate unit, with authority to hold, manage and reinvest
all funds made available for carrying out Bank livestock projects as well as
the funds aceruing to it as a result of lending to project beneficiaries,
starting with I.oan 698-UR, dated June 30, 1970. Bank funds, plus a certain
amount contríbuted by Government in proportions that vary with the different
loan agreements, are channeled to farmers through BROU as the only partici-
pating bank.  These resources are provided to BROU in the form of loans that
cover the greatest percentage of the valuie of subloans made by BROU to Plan
Agropecuarío beneficiaries (para 13). CB loans to BROU are made against docw-
menes for subloaas to ranchers at interest rates that permit BROU to get a
spread of 2% over indexed príncipal to cover administrative expenses.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        The status of the flow of funds of the Livestock Fund (LF) with
proceeds from Bank Loans 698, 773, 816 and 940-UR and the recuperations from
its establishment in 1971 to February 28, 1975 is as follows:
Inflow of Funds                                Ur$ million (rounded)
Proceeds from Loan 698-UR                                     1,494
Proceeds from Loan 773-UR                                     1,083
Proceeds from Loan 816-UR                                     8,375
Proceeds from Loan 940-UR                                     9,888
Interest collected (from 698, 773 and 816)                    1,595
Adjustments (from 698, 773 and 816)                           3,238
Outflow of Funds
BROU's Outstanding Portfolio (698 and 773)                            1,153
BROU's Outstandíng Portfolio (816)                                    7,887
BROU's Outstanding Portfolio (940)                                    7,611
Paymimts for Technical Services                                         203
Sub-totals                                         Z5,673 16,854
LF's Outstanding Balance /1                                           8,819
TOTAL                                              25,673 25,673
/1   From recuperations of BROU's loans--about 3,986 million principal repay-
ments, 1,595 millíon interest recovered and 3,238 million from monetary
adjustments.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
C. The Bank of the Republic (BROU)
General
9.        BROU, established in 1896, is the most important credit bank in
Uruguay. It has 73 branches in the country and five agencies in Montevideo,
where it also has its headquarters. As an all-purpose bank, BROU provides
banking services and finance to all Governnent entities and finances the
private sector for the development of agriculture, industry, fisheries,
commerce, tourism and almost any other type of enterprise. One of its major
activities is related to foreign credit and foreign business transactions
connected with import and export commerce.
10.       As of the first of January 1974, BROU began operating under a new
organizational structure (Chart World Bank 8890) and a new organic law
generally approved in principle by Government although minor issues concern-
ing division of functions with CB remain to be solved. The reorganization
came about as a result of pressures from high ranking Governnent officials
to split BROU into various specialized banks or at least a separate develop-
ment bank. The idea, however, was turned down at a decision meeting (known
as the San Miguel meeting) in December 1973 attended by Government and the
high military staff, but an agreement was reached to give the present arrange-
ment a two-year trial period.
Administration
11.       BROU is administered by a Board of Directors, composed of a
president and two directors appointed by the Government. The president is
BR0U's legal representative and, jointly, with the General Manager, its
authorized representative in all bank business transactions. The two
officials may also grant powers of attorney to delegate their authority, and,
thus, branch managers, deputy managers and chief accountants have jointly
been authorized to sign public and private contracts and other business doc-
uments for the bank at their respective local offices.
Organization and Management
12.       As a result of the reorganizati.on, BROU now operates with four
self-contained operational divisions, three of them potential individual
hanks:
(a) the Development Division;
(b) the Banking Business Division;
(e) the Social Credit Division; and
(d) the Foreign Commerce Control Division.
It also has two Service Divisions (para 15).



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       The Development Division is divided into two separate activities--
Agricultural Development and Industrial Development--each with its own Division
Manager. The agricultural portion is further divided into the Rural Credit
Department and the Livestock Projects Department, which handles only Plan
Agropecuario (PLAN) funds. Practically all of the agricultural credit pro-
vided by BROU is handled through the Development Division and channeled to
farmers and ranchers by the 73 field branches. The industrial portion of the
Development Division is concerned with the financing of the industrial sector,
and most of these loans are handled at the main office or at main city branches.
14.       The Banking Business Division is concerned mainly with the financing
of local and import-export commerce; the reception of deposits; foreign ex-
change transactions; and purchase and sale of gold, silver, and Government
or private bonds and stock. The Social Credit Division provides fínancing
to public and private employers for consumer goods and serves social and
cultural needs such as handling retention of salaries, pensions and, in some
cases, mortgages and other types of guarantees. The Division of Foreign Com-
merce Control has no major banking role since its responsibility is limited to
the inspection, control and regulatory policies concerned with international
commerce.
15.       BROU also has two service Divisions--the Accounting Division,
divided into the Department of Accounting, Data Control and Studies, and
the General Services Division, divided into the Departments of Administration,
Treasury and Personnel. The two divisions, with their respective managers,
are under the authority of BROU's Deputy General Manager, who also has re-
sponsibility for a department in charge of the collection of overdue loans and
other assets of difficult recuperation.
16.       BROU's branch network is well distributed throughout the country,
with one branch in each of the 18 Department capitals and the rest scattered
in accordance with concentrations of farmers and volume of banking and
services demanded from the bank. Most Departments have at least two branches,
with the Departments of Colonia and Canelones having 12 and eight, respectively.
Managers of small branches can approve loans up to US$8,000, while those in
charge of offices in Department capitals can make loans up to US$16,000.
However, despite the number and the geographical location of the branches
and the generally good quality of managers and staff, BROU is a long way from
being able to render satisfactory financial assistance to Uruguayan farmers
for the following reasons:
(a) at headquarters and especially at branch level, the staff
and clerical employees spend more than half of their time
in providing services to Government institutions; such
work includes collecting taxes, paying salaries and pen-
sions to Government employees, conducting special surveys
and inspections, and collecting data.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) financial resources are lacking except for short term and
even for this type of financing, there is very often a
lack of liquidity that prevents granting loans when they
are needed, causing great problems for farmers, and
(c) there are insufficient technical personnel to provide
assistance and supervision. BROU has 63 agronomists
and 50 technicians, who must operate with poor trans-
portation facilities and little basic office equipment
at branch level.
There is no Government extension service in Uruguay, and, except for operations
handled by PLAN, credit is not adequately complemented with technical assistance.
Unfortunately, the reorganization to specialized divisions at BROU's central
office did not help operations at the branches, but BROU has asked IDB to
provide a consultant to study the situation and make recommendations to
ímprove the operational structure for agricultural credit units in the field.
Resources
17.       The authorized and paid up capital of the bank amounts to only
Ur$ 1,500 million and the officially acounted reserves to Ur$ 1,944 million,
or a total of Ur$ 3,444 million (US$2.8 million). BROU also had an additional
accumulated reserve of Ur$ 159,229 million (US$127.4 million) carried as a
`Transitory Administrative Account" on its balance sheet for fiscal year 1973.
This reserve has been increasing yearly as a result of the difference in ex-
change on more than US$300 million financed to Government up to 1963 and
repaid by BROU to foreign entities at much lower rates than those prevailing
today.
18.       Over 75% of BROU's assets and liabilities (amounting to Ur$ 831,545
million as of December 1973) represent Government transactions (Table 1).
Except for resources from PLAN, funds to finance the private sector are of a
short-term nature. Balances as of end December 1973 were: fixed-term deposits,
Ur$ 14,000 míllion; rediscounts from Central Bank, Ur$ 100,000 million, short-
term borrowing from outside the country, Ur$ 61,000 million; and PLAN,
Ur$ 11,000 million.
Interest Rates on Deposits
19.       BROU and all other banks as of October 1, 1974 must apply the
following interest rate schedule for term deposits and rediscounts:
(a) savings accounts (30 days previous notice to withdraw),
8% per annum, with capitalization every six months;
(b)  fixed-term deposits for amounts not less than Ur$ 50,000:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Term                            Interest Rate
3 months                           30% per annum
6 months                           36% per annum
12 months or more                  48% per annum
On deposits for 12 or more months, the banks may pay due
interests on a monthly basis.
(c) Interest payments are not permitted for current accounts;
and
(d) rediscounts from CB are made against documents for develop-
mental credit and the interest rates are 4% per annum for
official banks and 8% for private banks.
Interest Rates on Loans
20.       As mentioned in paragraph 6, interest rates to be charged by official
and private banking institutions are determined by CB. As of the 24th of
September, 1974, the maximum interest rate fixed for any type of loan from
private or official banks for the agricultural or industrial sector was 32%
per annum in advance, or its equivalent for any term (equal to 47% lf paid at
fallen due dates). In addition, the banking institutions are authorized and
thus charge a commission fee of up to 6% annually, also paid in advance, and
commercial loans not backed up by a real guaranty are subject to a 6% additional
tax. Loans in foreign currencies in accordance with the same September 1974
authorization may be made with a maximum of 16.5% annual interest charged at
the fallen due date.
21.       On March 10, 1975, CB reduced the interest rate for institutional
loans to the agricultural sector from 32% to 25% annually, to be paid in
advance, or 33% when paid at fallen due dates and abolished commission charges.
This reduction was part of a package of emergency measures adopted by the
Governnent to alleviate the beef industry crisis resulting from the lack of
export markets, the idea being to encourage planting of annual forage crops
and diversification towards other agriculture crops. Loans to other sectors
of the economy remained at 32% in advance, except for industrial cooperatives,
small industry and small industrial cooperatives in which cases the maximum
rates in advance are 28, 26 and 22%, respectively.
22.       Renewals of loans due have penalties of 2% for the first renewal,
4% for the second, and 6% for the third. These additional interest rates are
also charged in advance or at their equivalent value when paid at fallen due
dates.
Lending to the Private Sector
23.       BROU's total loan portfolio (Table 2) to the end of December 1973
amounted to Ur$ 609,000 million (US$650 million), of which 71%, or Ur$ 432,000
million, represents mostly unproductive operations with Central Govern=ent and



ANNEX 3
Page 8
other decentralized Government entities and thus will not be included for the
purpose of this report. The remaining 30%, or Ur$ 177,000 million (US$189
million), constitutes BROU's loan portfolio with the private sector. BROU's
participation in total lending from all banks to the private sector was 48%
in 1973, 41.5% in 1972, and 49% in 1971.
24.       Practically all loans made by BROU and commercial banks to the
private sector are for periods of from three to six months; seldom do they
exceed 12 months. Loans under the PLAN program are the only exception. During
fiscal year 1973, BROU made 36,500 new loans to finance crops, totalling
nearly Ur$ 40,000 million, and 30,760 loans to finance livestock production
amounting to Ur$ 37,700 million. The latter category includes 4,784 loans
under PLAN for Ur$ 8,700 million. Most of BROU's loans, besides being short
term, are for small amounts and thus can be approved by branch managers.
25.       The following table indicates the trend of BROU's lending to the
agricultural sector. The amounts include portfolio-combíned balances for the
Departments of Rural Credit and livestock Projects.
Balances
to 12/31   % of Total to    Variation with Year Before
Year Ur$ Million Private Sector Nominal Growth Inflation Rate Real Growth
%              ,0             %
1968      6,400            31              168             125            43
1969      6,900           27                 5              20           -15
1970     11,800           35                76              16            60
1971     18,180           33                54              23            31
1972     28,900/1         31                59              76           -17
1973     65,000/1         36               124              97            27
/1   Includes PLAN.
As mentioned before, the only agricultural development credit is provided
through ILAN and practically all of the credit provided by BROU's Rural Credit
Department is for crop production and cattle trading. In most years, wheat
and rice account for more than 40% of crop lending, followed by sugar-beet and
cane, potatoes and grain sorghums, but this pattern varíes substantially at
times, due to changes in price policies for crops and livestock. In 1973, the
wheat price was raised to the international level, resulting in a great ex-
pansion of the area devoted to the crop and a higher demand for credit.
26.       The total administrative cost of BROU (Table 2) during 1973 amounted
to UR$ 24,700 mil1ion, of which Ur$ 20,900 represtnted salaries and other staff
costs and Ur$ 3,800 million, other costs.  The aduinistrative cost would be
equivalent to 4% of BROU's loan portfolio, includñng Government operations.
The total income for interest and commissions charged mainly to private



ANNEX 3
Page 9
borrowers amounted to Ur$ 32,245 million, which represents an average of 18.2%
per annum, computed on the basis of the outstanding private sector loan
portfolio to end of December 1973. Loans to the private sector in arrears
and under legal collection procedures amount to Ur$ 3,900 million, or 2.1%
over the total private sector loan portfolio to December 1973. Provisions
for bad debts during the same fiscal year amount to Ur$ 2,500 million, or
1.4%.
Accounting and Auditing
27.       BROU's central accounting division, is effíciently run, with most
of the accounts being electronically processed. The great weakness, however,
is at the branch level where there is little or no equipment such as adding
machines, calculators, accounting machines, and, in many cases, even type-
writers.  BROU's main office is aware of the problem and for the past year
has been working on an invitation for public bidding for the procurement of
office and accounting equipment for field offices. Scarcity of funds and
legal red tape, however, has prevented any action on the matter. Internal
auditing is done by the General Inspectíon Department of BROU and external
auditing is performed by the State Audit Board (Tribunal de Cuentas) in
charge of the audit of all Government institutions.
PLAN Sub-loan to Ranchers
28.       Since the beginning of PLAN activities, BROU has been the only
participating bank for the relending of project funds to ranchers and other
sub-borrowers. In addition, it has been the relending channel for several
USAID loans for cereal growing, machinery and general purpose agriculture.
It also handles IDB loans for industrial development. All PLAN loans are
controlled and accounted for by a separate unit, which, in 1974, became a
department of the bank with its own manager and two other senior staff
members, all dedicated exclusively to PLAN operations. Until 1967, all PLAN
loans were made by the central office unit directly. However, since 1968,
subloan approval has been delegated to branch managers after discussions
with the local PLAN technicians, which has speeded the process considerably.
All loans are made only after a technical evaluation by PLAN staff and require
BROU's approval in respect to sub-borrowers' creditworthiness, collateral and
tax payment status.
29.       During the period of the last six years ending in December 1974
BROU has financed about 14,000 ranchers with a total of about 26,000 million
of project funds through about 22,000 subloans for farm investments to improve
pastures and other ranch facilities needed to increase beef and milk production.
Of the total number of loans, 37% represents repeater loans to ranchers who
are improving their ranches with investment phasing plans of two to four years.
BROU also provides additional short-term loans to PLAN borrowers to satisfy
their needs for working capital and for annual applications of fertilizer
needed to maintain the proper level of fertilization of pastures improved
under PLAN projects.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
D. Private Banks
30.       Overall, the 27 private commercial banks have 162 offices in
Montevideo and 158 in the rest of the country, or a total of 320 banking
establishments. The number of private banks has declined steadily in the
past nine years. In 1963 there were 81 banks with 590 branches, but the
number was reduced to 67 in 1966. Since its establishment, CB has encouraged
bank mergers and the reduction of branches. Five of the commercial banks
are now in process of liquidation and will be absorbed by BROU. During the
past four years, the private banks' participation in total lending to the
private sector has been of the order of 50%.
Resources
31.       Capital and reserves of all private banks as of December 1973
amounted to about Ur$ 28,000 million. Total monetary liabilities on the same
date were Ur$ 224,400 million, of which Ur$ 105,800 million were sight
deposits in local currency, Ur$ 83,000 million were fixed-term deposits,
and Ur$ 35,600 million were foreign currency deposits (exchange rate, Ur$ 928
to US$1). Current legal reserves for deposits of the private banks as
required by CB are 40% for sight deposits, 20% for fixed-term deposits of
three to 12 months, 10% for fixed-term deposits over one year, and 20% for
foreign currency deposits.
Interest Rates
32.       Private banks pay the same interest rates on deposits as BROU--30%
annually for three months, 36% for six months, and 48% for deposits for over
12 months. They are forbidden by CB to pay interest on current accounts. In
loans, private banks charge the maximum interest authorized by CB for the
entire banking system, as indicated in paragraphs 20, 21 and 22. Loans in
foreign denominations may be charged only 16.5% annual interest, not in advance
and with no commission charge.
Lending
33.       According to a CB May 1974 report, total institutional credit to
the private sector as of December 31, 1973 was of the order of Ur$ 431,500
millions, of which 48% was provided by private banks, 49% by BROU, and 3% by
CB. Out of the Ur$ 209,000 million in the outstanding loan portfolio of the
private banks, Ur$ 46,000 million (22%) corresponded to the five intervened
banks now in liquidation (para 30). Practically atll lending by private banks
is now for the private sector. It is also all short-term credit: 90% of the
loans are for under 180 days and a great number fcr only 30 days. From 25%
to 30% of the loan portfolio is classified as loaris to the agricultural
sector, about 50% to the industrial sector and the rest to commerce and
various other activities. Of the agricultural sector loans, about 80% were



ANNEX 3
Page 11
granted for cattle purchases at publíc sales administered by the same private
banks, while the other 20% helped finance wool shearing and crop harvesting.
In reality, practically all lending by the private banks is to finance market-
ing and commercialization of the production of the different sectors and
cannot be considered as production loans.
September 18, 1975



ANNEX 3
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Financial Position of Banco de la Republica (BROU) as of Dec. 31. 1969. 70. 71. 72 and 1973y
"TJr $ Niuliona)
1969                1970               1S71                1972                1973
Sub-               Sub-                Sub-                Sub-                Snb-
acceet  Aecount  acoomt   Aecotmt   aecoumt   Aecount   aceount   Aecount  acecont  Aecount
Assete
Cash en hand                     7,677              9,926              13,393              60,528              83,357
Liquid assets                    3,697              3,776              19,357              18,589              16,491
Loans and other
earning assetss              142,474            154,677             192,596             423,904             608,932
Private sector       24,876              33,327              55,812              93,146             176,988
Private Banking sector 4,905              4,860               3,381              11,972              19,059
Official Banking
sector              19,057              19,780             21,535              66,937                 345
Public sector        92,305              95,797             111,350             251,84              322,539
External sector       1,331                 913                   2                   5                   1
Fixed assets                      701                 900               1,218               2,012               3,462
Temporary asseta               26,631              26,890              39,898              92,127             106,259
Ot.her assets (guaranties)      4,013               4,020               4,218              11,830              13.044
Total Assets                    185,193             200.189             270,680             608 990          , 831,545
Liabilities
Non-demandable                  1,211               1,211               1,211               1,211               1,211
Demandable, depositos          75,903              82,153             110,94h             240,608             377,607
Private sector       15,257              15,481              25,434              42,946              84,334
Private Banking
sector             10,148               9,924               6,231              11,8a46              0,312
Official Banking
sector             32,997              35,452              46,0814            134,123             172,376
Pablic sector        17,332              20,696              33,135              51,617             100,541
External sector         169                 600                  90                  76                  44
Equities and Bonds             50,355              54,902              83,44h             1142,941            176,744
Banco Central (CB)
rediscounts        27,126              36,218              67,689              86,627             111,210
External sector      15,243              12,483              10,641              43,117              61,090
Private Banka
c. accounts)       7,986               6,201               5,114              13,197               4,444
Temporary                      52,200              56,266              69,011             210,323             259,495
Other liabilities
(guaranties)                  4,013               4,020               4,218              11,830              13,043
h t ,orth                       1.511               1.637               1.852               2.077               3j¡h5
Net worth and Liabilities       185.193             200.189             270.680             608.990             831.545
1/ Souree: Banco de la Republica (RtOU) end of fiscal yeara Balance Sheets.
May 1, 1975



ANNEX 3
URUtW AY
FIFTH LIVESTCCX DEVELOPM!ST PROJECT
BROM'S LOAN PORTFOLIO TO DECEMBER 31, 1971, 72 and 73
Income and Expenses for saee Teara
Urs$ and US$ in Million (Rounded>
1971                       1972                       1973
U__     %     US$Ff/  UF$                            Ur$ % Us$  4
1.  OCtstanding Portfolio
By Sectors:
(a) Loans to Private Sector                 55,800      29   150.8     93,100      22   129.7    177,000      29   188.9
a.l  Agricultural (including PLAN) loana  (18,200)    (9)  (49.2)   (28,900)    (7)  (40.3)   (65,000)   (11)  (69.4)
a.2  Industrial loans                      (13,800)                   (20,500)                   (20,000)
a.3  Comerce and other loana               (23,800)                   (43,700)                   (92,000)
(b)  Loans to private banks                  3,400       2     9.2     12,000       3    16.7     19,050       3    20.3
(c)  Loans to official banks                21,530    1i    58.2       66,900      16    93.2     90*350      15    96.5
(d)  Loana to pablic sector Y               I11,350     58   300.9    251,900      59   350.8    322,530   e53   344.2
Total Loan Portfolio                  192,080    100   519.1    423,900    100   590.4    608,930    100   649.9
2.  Income
Interesta and ce~uiasions                    8,251                     15,218                      32,245
Other - (exchange differences)              19,043                     92,638                     41,585
Total                                       27,294                    107,856                     73,830
3. Expenses
Salaries and social charges                  6,995                      8,397                      20,833
Administrative expenses                      1,022                      1,905                      3,806
Sub-total,administrative costa Y             8,017                     10,302                     24,639
Inta.a   GB ipt., rmd            tm &   _    2,56                       I,6I                       8,076
Pre.vaio    for        ~tbe                      -                      #m7                         8,
To tranaitory A#. Account (Reserve)         1,471                      99,@27                     37,22.3
fet pi'ofzts                                    239                        249                     1,391
Total                                       27,294                    107,856                     73,830
1971              1972               1973
1/ Exchange rates to December of each year :                   3701h                                  37-
2/ Includes Central GOvernrent Debt, in millions:   101,240   273.6   228,848   318.7   283,400   302.5
3/ % over total Loan Portfolio:                       4.1%              2.1%                4%
July 31, 1974



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOP!4lNT PROJECT
Central Bnkn Live-tock Fund anO Banco RenubíLca Pr:1ect Anonunta
Pro¡bat Cash Flpo.
<UrS Mi11iton)
-Star..~~~~~~~~<"   ílí.
1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9          10           11          12          13           14          15        Total
Central Bank's Livnetonk Fund Pr.l..t A..ount
Inflov,
Reinb-rents frorn IBRD                                       11,756.0   14,278.0    2,522.0            -           -           -            -           -           -           -            -                       -            -           -      28,556.0
Intere-t paid by BROU                                             -         588.0    1,176.0    1.171.6    1,152.0    1,121.4          1,027.3       870.1        712.8       570.4       443.6        317.2       190.4        63.4          -       9,404.2
Prí..ipal patd by BROU                                            -           -          80.7        706.0    1,251.4    2.859.3       4,410.2    4,410.2    3,782.7    3,138.6    3,158.6          3,158.6    3,158.6       1.579.3          -      31,714.2
Govern,ent'n tnntrIbnti.o                                     2.860.0    2.860.0                                                                                                                                                - _- _                5.720.0
Totel Inflov                                      14,616.0   17,726.0    3.778.7       1.877.6    2.403,4    3.980,7    5.437.5    5.280.3    4.495.6    3.129.0    3.602.2               3.465.8    3.349.0      1.6427           -      75.394.4
Oatflo.
L.n-  to BROU                                                15,857.1   15,857.1                 -           -           -                  -           -           -           -            -           -           -            -           -      31,714.2
PLAN teohoital  --rvi...                                      1,280.4    1.280.4                             -           -           -                  -                       -            -           -           -            -           -       2.560.8
Debt acruine to IBRD
Intornon _                                                                                                                     _____                                                          
PrIncIpal                                                       _             -           -            -           -       2.855.6    2.855.6    2.855,6    2.855.6    2.855.6          2.855.6    2.855.6    2.855.6    2.855,6    2.855.6   28.556.0
Total Outflo                                      17,137.5   17.137.5        2_-            -           -        .8255.6    2.855.6    22855.6    2.855.6    2.855.6    2. 855.6                                  2.56    2.855.6   62,831.0
Net Flo,                                          (2,521.5)      588.5    3,778.7    1,877.6    2,403.4         1,125.1    2,581.9    2,424.7    1.639.9           873.4       746.6        610.2       493.4   (1.212.9)  (2,855 6)
Cuulativ- Flov                                        -      (1,933.0)   1,845.7    3,723.3    6,126.7    7,251.8    9,833.7   12,258.4   )3,898.3   14,771.7   15,518.3   16,128.5   16,621.9   15,419.0   12,563.4   13,563.4
B-nco de 1a R.publica'a Pro-ecc A-connt
Inflpv
Lr tn.n. (85%)                                               15,857.1   15,857.1          -                        -           -                        -           -           -            -           - _                      -           -      31.714.2
BROU'o porttcip,ttoo  (15%)                                   2,798.3    2,798.3          -            -           -           -            _           _                                    . -                                                      5,596.6
Intecrno  paíd by a.b-borrnreca                                   -       1,034.0    2,068.0    2,060.4    2,025.9         1,972.0    1,806.6    1,530.2    1,253.5         1,003.1       780.1        557.8       334.9       111.5          -      16,538.0
Prtitipal paid by aab-bo--naera                                   -      _        .      95.0        830.3    1.472,3    3.364.0    5.168.5        5.188.5    4.450.2       3.716,0    3.716.0    3.716.0        3.716.0     1.858.0        _        37,310.8
Total lnflov                                      18.6554   19.689.4    2.163.0    2.890.7    3.498.2    5.336.0    6.995.1    6.718.7              5.703.7    4.719.1    4.496.1    4.273.8          4.050.9    1.969.5   _              91.159.6
0utflo,
Loan. to ..b-bo-rowae.                                       18,655.4   18,655.4           -           -                                    -           -                                                                                     -      37,310.8
Debt porvine to LF
íoternet                                                                    588.0    1,176.0    1,171.6    1,152.0    1,121.4    1,027.3              870.1       712.8       570.4       443.6        317.2       190.4        63.4                  9,404.2
Princpal-                                                                     -          80.7        706.0    1,251.4    2,859.3    4,410.2    4,410.2              1,82,7    1,158.6   1,158.6    3,158.6    3.158.6        1,579.3                 31,714.2
Ad.iotr.títon .p ...n.e 2/-                                                 290.9       581.8        579.6       570.0       554.8       508.3       430.5        352.7       282.2       219.5        156.9        94.2        31.4        _         4.652.8
Total 0utfIbv                                     I,55.4   19.534.3    1.838.5    2.457.2           2 973.      4.535.5    5.945.8    5.710.8    4.848.2    4.011.2          3.821.7    3.632.7    3.443.2    1.674.1            _       03,082.0
Net Flo.                                                -        155.1       324.5       433.5        524.8       800.5    1,049.3    1,007.9          855.5       707.9        674.4       641.1       607.7        293.4
Ca.lal1tí- Flo.,                                                 155.1       479.6        913.1    1,437,9    2,238.4    3,287.7    4,295.6    5,151.1    5,859.0    6.533.4              7.174.5    7.784.2    8.077.6            -       8,077 6
1/  No Loten..t la ch-rged to LP by Governn..t
2J  Le~traed at 2 1. of ont.t8ndíog portfolto.
May 28, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESIDENCY
AUDITING AND
GENERAL INSPECTION                                                                                                 LEGAL
DIVISION                                                                                                     ADVISORY
SECRETARY
GENERAL MANAGER                 GENERAL
ACCOUNTING                  ECONOMIC                   V INANCIAL                  FOREIGN                 BANKING SYSTEM
ADMINISTRATION                 STUDIES                ADMINISTRATtON                 BUSINESS                  CONTROLLER
DIVIS\ON                   DIVISION                   DIVISION                   DIVISION                   tUlVISION
DPT.   DPT.               DPT    DPT        DPT                        DPT.      DPI    DPT                  DPT    -
CREDIT
DEPARTMENT
|  LIVESTOCK                                                 B        S8f
FUND        |c 
Worid Ba,,k -8901






URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANK OF THE REPUBLIC /BROU)
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DI RECTORS
..                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G,.,,al A.dit necrn
.~~uTY G    *ENER AL M AGNE AL  ANGFI
BANKING 3USINESS                             DEVELOPMENT                                 SOCIAL CREDIT                4TNORCEt-   O 1 N(                                           .1 RVICFE
Si                                                              ViS~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~IvsOrN  CONTROL                 '~                               1RI~
DIVI ON       DIVISION                                    f)                          ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVISIO  DIVI lSUIN                II VISION
OiZ   EPARTME                  CEDIT        r             CREDIT        r                 LOANS       r            ITAAA>TMFNI-                  5 JPUIIIPAENI#PTtrr 
UEFART1.IENT          ~DEFRTENI                     __FARIMEN
DEVELioMENT                    TLAN                         CRAITEL               I     t  oCRs               tlATRONIC DATA                     TREASEIR 
CREDIT                  ARPCAOLANDEPARTMENT                                                                      FAOCEUSS~"                   EF
llb  DEPARTMENT          EePARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT                    DPARMENDP                                                         N
J rOREIGN I---                                                              |   CNsUMFTION                                            ECL  | MIC.T sIES &               11SONN         L
B SUSINESS   |                                                              |      CREDIT                                           S| AST-r-S                         II EAUIMENI
g    DEPARTMENT    |                                                         ffi  OEFARTVENT                                                  F-ARTMENT
i|    IELD       I     oN        U Ip        I |II |                                                                                          EIvrF    ll ,,1.rTION 
eRANcHEs    |   i    AGENCIE5    1  , -                                                                                 lEPAzRMENE 
SwsA.l eer q RRRR






ANEX 4
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTR LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Under Previous Projects
A. Introduction
1.        The Bank has made six loans to help finance four Livestock Develop-
ment Projects in support of the National Livestock Development Program launched
by the Uruguayan Governnent in July 1957. The main objective pursued by
Government and the Bank in these projects was, and continues to be, to increase
beef production and exports. The strategy adopted to accomplish this objec-
tive encompasses efforts directed at (a) institution building, (b) technolo-
gical improvements, and (c) development of adequate sectoral economic policies.
Therefore, assessment of performance under previous Bank-financed projects
should consider achievements in respects to these efforts.
2.        Loan 245-UR for US$7 million was signed in 1959 to finance the
First Livestock Development Project, implemented in 1961 and completed in
1965. Proceeds were essentially used to demonstrate methods of pasture
improvement on a large sample of farms. Loan 407-UR for US$12.7 million
was made in 1965 to finance the Second Livestock Development Project, deal-
ing with commercial operations on a large number of farms. Both loans were
disbursed behind schedule.
3.        The Third Livestock Development Project, started in 1971, was
financed by Loan 698-UR (US$6.3 million) and a supplementary loan, 773-UR
(US$4.0 million), intended to support continuation of the livestock program
for one year while the Government resolved remaining sector policy issues,
especially in the meat packing industry, and restored ranchers' confidence
sufficíently to encourage them to invest. The project included the financing
of ranch improvements aímed at increasing the carrying capacity of the land
and the production of beef and wool; technical and consultant services;
and equipment and machinery necessary to grow, harvest, and process quality
legume and grass seed. It also provided funds to help the Goverrment improve
meat inspection hygiene, and processing services to raise the quality of
exports.
4.        The Fourth Livestock Development Project, started in 1972, is being
financed in two stages: Loan 816-UR (US$11.2 million) covered operations for
1972 and 1973 and Loan 940-UR (US$13.5 million) is financing 1974 and 1975
activities. The First Stage, financed by Loan 816-UR continued to assist
Uruguay's livestock development program by providing technical and financial
support to beef cattle and sheep producers, and extended its operations to
include dairy and pig producers as well. Mixed farmers were added in Stage II.
The project also financed expansion of pasture seed production and processing
facilities and technical assistance to the meat and dairy processing sector
and the meat ínspection and hygiene control service.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        All four projects were executed by the Plan Agropecuario (PLAN),
which also assisted ranchers in the preparation of farm development plans.
Under the First and Second Projects, funds for the on-lending program were
channeled through a Livestock Fund established in Banco de la Republica (BROU).
Beginning with the Third Project, however, on-lending funds have been channeled
through a Livestock Fund (LF) established in the Central Bank (CB) which reim-
burses BROU for sub-loans made to ranchers.
6.        The efforts aimed at institution building and transfer of technology
have had continuity since the beginning, while improvement of sector economic
policies was begun in 1969 and has since been an important component of the
program.
B. Accomplishments
Institutional Improvements
7.        Project Management.  The PLAN, established as described in Annex 2,
now enjoys a good reputation among ranchers for the assistance it has given to
promote viable economic activity. Its main accomplishments include the help
it has given to more than 16,000 livestock producers, or about 54% of all the
potentially viable producers, owning over 9 million ha, or about 60% of the
pasture area of Uruguay; improvement of pastures through introduction of
legumes and phosphatic fertilizers on some 2 million ha, of which about 1.2
million were under production in 1974; and investment of some US$55 million of
Bank Group loans, plus another US$68 million of local resources, to improve
such pastures and to finance related activities such as research and seed
production and to obtain foreign technical assistance.
8.        Project Lending.  Since the beginning of PLAN activities, BROU has
been the only participating bank for the on-lending of project funds to
ranchers and other sub-borrowers. All loans made with PLAN resources are
controlled and accounted for by a separate unit, which, this year, became
a department of the bank with its own manager and two other senior staff
members, all dedicated exclusively to PLAN operations. Until 1967, all PLAN
loans were made directly by the central office unit. However, since 1968,
subloan approval has been delegated to branch managers, which has speeded
the process considerably. All loans are made only after a technical evalua-
tion by PLAN staff and require BROU's approval in respect to sub-borrowers'
creditworthiness, collateral and tax payment status.
9.        Since the beginning of the Bank-financed Livestock Development
Program, BROU has made about 26,000 loans to some 16,000 different ranchers
for on-farm investments. BROU's statistics from 1961 to 1968, however, are
not detaíled and the only thing clear about that period is that BROU made
about 4,000 loans to some 2,500 different ranchers. Detailed statistics have
been kept by BROU since 1969 when loans began to be adjusted, and from then



AN>9EX 4
Page 3
to 1974, BROU loaned about US$41.3 million equivalent, making about 22,000
loans for on-farm investments on approximately 13,500 different ranches. The
average amount financed per rancher was about US$3,000 equivalent and the
average size loan was about US$1,900 equivalent (Table 1).
10.       BROU and PLAN statistics show that 70% (11,149) of farmers assisted
with credit and technical services had farms under 500 ha, 15% (2,379) had
farms between 501 and 1,000 ha, 12% (2,022) had farms between 1,000 and 2,500 ha,
and about 3% (423) had ranches larger than 2,500 ha. According to the 1970
Census and Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock estimates, there are 72,200
farms in the country, about 30,000 of which met conditions that made them
potential beneficiaries of the Livestock Development Projects (Table 2).
Therefore, previous Bank-financed projects have benefited about 54% of the
Uruguayan enterprises that were potentially eligible for livestock improvement
projects. 1/
Techrical Improvements
11.       The four previous projects supported by the Bank have consistently
promoted improvement of livestock production through the following:
(a) Pasture Improvement. Essentially this has consisted of
applying phosphatic fertilizer to stimulate growth of pasture
clovers, which, being legumes, increase the nitrogen in the
soil. This nitrogen, in turn, greatly stimulates the growth
of grasses and results in much more vigorous and more
nutritious pastures. In most cases, it is necessary to
introduce improved legume and grass seeds. Since the
beginning of PLAN's operations in 1961, technical staff
and ranchers have favored this technique. With the
rationale that it would produce the greatest uplift in
productivity, pasture improvement was given first priority
during the first phase of the program, and, despite efforts
to give equal importance to other components in PLAN's
lending program for on-ranch investments, it has remained
the largest. Details of the four pasture improvement
schemes utilized are given in paragraph 14.
(b) Subdivision of Pasture Fields. Another important practice
promoted by PLAN is subdivisional fencing, necessary for
areas where improved pastures have been introduced, and
subdivision of the land remaining under natural pastures
1/   The 1970 Census reports 77,202 farm producers.  Of these, 23,000 operate
farms under 10 ha, which is not considered in Uruguay to be a viable size
for livestock operations, 13,000 are dedicated to raising crops, fruits
and vegetables; and 11,000 are involved with such things as tenancy
problems, short-term rental contracts, and the like and cannot be con-
sidered eligible for project participation.



ANtNEX 4
Page 4
to permit controlled grazing of those areas. This technique,
at the same time, calls for investments for adequate wateríng
places.  Even though this method of improvement is second in
importance as far as ranchers' acceptance is concerned, it
has not as yet been introduced in a satisfactory proportion
to investments in pasture improvement.
(c) Fodder Conservation. This technique, utilized in other
countries with conditions similar to those in Uruguay, has
also been considered among the items to be fi;nanced under
each of the four projects, but, up to now, only a few
ranchers have invested in it.
(d) Control of Animal Diseases. Reasonable progress had been
made in this area even before the Bank began financing
livestock projects in Uruguay, but there were still problems,
mainly with hoof and mouth disease, and, to some extent, with
tick fever, contagious abortion in cattle, and internal
parasites in sheep. Very important work has been carried out
duríng the period of the projects to further advance control
of animal diseases, mainly hoof and mouth disease, and
vaccínation has been obligatory countrywide since 1968.
The Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture has a special
permanent program for the fight against hoof and mouth,
occupying 30 veterinarians and some 20 laboratory assist-
ants. This team has been efficient and now produces the
appropriate vaccines.
12.       Basic Pasture Improvement Technology Promoted by PLAN.  Research and
experience has demonstrated that the main technical problém of the Uruguayan
livestock industry stems from quantitative and qualitatíve deficiencies of
pastures, partícularly during the winter months. This is due to the poor
fertility of soils, which are low in phosphorus and nitrogen, elements that
severely limit the production of pastures. To solve both problems, Uruguay
has used phosphatic fertilizer and introduced legumes that prosper well in
phosphorus-rich soíls and also correct the nitrogen deficiency. The legumes,
combined with the proper inoculants (rhizobium), are capable of absorbing
nitrogen from the air and fixing it in the soils.  From the economical point
of view, this method is better adapted to conditions in Uruguay than the
direct applicatíon of nitrogen fertilizers.
13.       The two main types of phosphatic fertilizers u&ed are the ground
phosphorites and superphosphate. The first one is recommended for the acid
soils that prevail in the greater part of the country and the superphosphates
for the rather neutral soils of the litoral and southern parts of the country.
The phosphatic fertílizers contain about 250 kg of P205 (phosphate) per ton
of fertilizer. Research conducted at the national experiment station,
"Alberto Boerger," has demonstrated that optimum levels of phosphate for good
legume pasture development range from 200 to 300 kg per ha, which means



ANNEX 4
Page 5
between 800 to 1,200 kg of fertilizer.  It is recommended that this level
be reached within a period of two to four years and that, about 100 kg of
fertilizer be provided annually to replace the phosphate lost through
production and absorption.
14.       Four different methods are used to apply phosphatic fertilizers and
legume pasture seed, depending on such things as soil characteristics, natural
vegetation, climate, possibility of mechanization, management, availability of
seed, and experiences of the ranch manager:
(a) Conventional Pasture. This technique consists of plowing and
preparing the fíeld to provide a proper seed bed, free of
weeds and with humidity to certain depths, where a mixture
of grasses and leguminous seeds can be sown. These pastures,
which are highly productive and require mechanization for
planting, are utilized mainly on small and medium size ranches
and where crop rotations are practiced.
(b) Sodseeding. For this, a specially designed Australian
machine is utilized to make furrows in the natural grass
fields and, at the same time, deposit the fertilizer and
pasture seed. With successive fertilizations and adequate
management, the legumes spread over the field and, together
with the natural grasses, provide a highly productive
pasture.
(c) Over Sowing. After intensive grazing of the fíeld to
diminish competition from the natural grass, the legume
seeds, pressed into pellets with the inoculant and sticker,
together with the phosphate fertilizer, are sown. Even
though this technique is more risky than sodseeding, it
is widely used where large areas need to be improved in
short periods of time.
(d) Fertilized Natural Pastures. This is the cheapest method
and consists of applying only phosphate fertilizer to fields
that already have a satisfactory density of natural leguminous
grasses (such as Medicago Hispida). This method also gets
a slower response since it takes some years to produce a
change of the species grown as a result of the higher
fertility and get production levels up to those resulting
from use of the other methods.
15.       As a result of technical assistance and financing provided by the
four Bank-assisted development projects, over 1.5 million ha (10%) of the
15 míllion ha of pasture land in Uruguay have been improved (Table 3). Studies
conducted by PLAN's technical unit estimate that, as expected at appraisal,
calf weaning rates on the ranches with improved pastures have increased by
about 7%, age of first calving has been gradually reduced by nearly one year,
steers are marketed at least six months earlier than on unimproved natural



ANNEX 4
Page 6
pastures, and the extraction rate of project-financed farms increased from
about 20% to over 23%. It is estimnated that these improved pastures now
account for around 20 to 25% of total beef production. Since 1969, beef
production (beef output plus changes in inventories) in Uruguay has been
growing at about 5% p.a., approximately as expected at appraisal.
16.       While pasture improvement technology has been widely accepted in
Uruguay, some limiting factors have become apparent.  Pasture seed production,
for example, has room for improvement since Uruguay sti'l has to import about
60% of seeds needed for its annual pasture improvement program. Uruguay
produced virtually no pasture seed before the Bank projects commenced but
since no production targets were specified at appraisal, it is difficult to
judge the achievements of the projects in this respect. Even so, the reasons
why Uruguay is not self-sufficient are not clear, and the second stage of the
Fourth Project includes funds for a study that will seek answers so that the
Government can determine the future course of pasture seed production. While
pasture improvement technology is widely spread, the management of improved
pasture is generally not well understood and a good many hectares of improved
pastures go out of production each year. Problems related to pasture and herd
management will need greater attention in future projects.
17.       Mixed Farms.  The second stage of the Fourth Project, financed by
Loan 940-UR, included a pilot program to assist about 400 mixed farmers. Their
farms, ranging in size from 30 ha to 200 ha, have suffered soil degradation,
declining yields and reduced farm incomes, due to a combination of shallow
soils and poor production practices. The program provides long-term financing
for the establishment of pasture-crop rotations and herd build-up. At the timie
the appraisal mission visited Uruguay, the promotion for these loans was
behind schedule.  The reason given by the PLAN was that the new technology
was still being developed, especially in pasture-crop rotations. PLAN has
selected 100 sub-borrowers to start the program in June, 1975. No special
funds are needed to continue the program since all mixed farmers will be
eligible to participate in the Fifth Project.
Sector Policies
18.       The Third Project was appraised against a background of high infla-
tion and political developments that had been having particularly adverse
effects on the livestock sector. Terms of lending had been shortened to
where they were inadequate for ranch development; export taxes were being
passed on to the rancher which reduced his income and díscouraged him from
increasing production and export of beef and wool; higE tariffs on agricultural
machinery and poorly timed supply of inputs (especially fertilizers) dis-
couraged him from undertaking pasture improvements; and inefficient operation
of the meat industries raised processing costs, which were, in turn, reflected
in pricing policies. Therefore, the Third as well as the Fourth Project aimed
at correcting the situation by following a strategy that called for (a)



ANNEX 4
Page 7
improving Government policies so that livestock producers would be willing to
make investments; and (b) improving livestock marketing procedures and
modernizing the meat packing industry and the inspection service to bring
them up to international standards.
19.       Following PLAN and Bank recommendations, the Government has improved
most of the policies affecting the sector. Export taxes have been lowered
and a new progressive tax based on potential rather than actual land produc-
tivity (IMPROME) is being implemented.  The meat packing industry has been
partly modernized at considerable expense, and processing, marketing, and
export procedures have been modified, enabling the industry to become more
efficient. The system of pricing livestock has improved and it now reflects
international market conditions and is related to the real foreign exchange
rate. Subsidies or fertilizers were established under the Third Project but
were eliminated in November 1974, in spite of the drop in world beef prices.
20.       Indexing of Subloans.  Traditional inflationary conditions
in Uruguay by 1968 resulted in negative real interest rates, which created
a problem of capital erosion to institutions involved in long-term lending
programs, such as BROU and the Central Bank who were handling Bank-supported
livestock development credit projects. Uruguayan Government officers, in
conjunction with USAID and members of PLAN, studied the problem and designed
a system of loan indexing, which was then discussed with Bank representatives,
and, once approved by all parties concerned, introduced in project lending
in 1969.
21.       The 1969 agreed system of indexing consisted of an annual adjustment
of the outstanding principal of subloans in accordance with the variation of
the average price of 41.6 kg of beef liveweight and 5.2 kg of wool. These
components for the initial specific price index are based on the national
average production of beef and wool per hectare. A series of changes have
occurred in implementation that have created confusion among borrowers and
hampered the beneficial effects projected for the financing institutions.
22.       The system applied in 1969 provided that:
(a) project beneficiaries with incomes derived from only the
exploitation of holdings under 200 ha would be subject
to 50% of the index calculated as described in the previous
paragraph;
(b) producers whose only income was from the exploitation
of farms ranging from 201 ha to 400 ha would be charged
75% of the index; and
(c) only producers with holdings of 401 ha or more would be
adjusted to 100% of the index on their project loans.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
During 1970, at the request of PLAN, the indexing mechanism used in 1969 for
adjusting the loan's principal was amended to the effect that the cost of
living index is used whenever the increase of beef and wool price index
exceeds the rise in the cost of living index of that year. Starting with
loans granted in 1971 to be adjusted in April 1972, the rate of adjustment
for small farmers was modified to the effect that all farmers with holdings
under 400 ha would be affected by only 50% of the index and those with more
than 400 ha would pay 100% of the adjustment. The adjustment called for, in
accordance with the system agreed to in 1969 and later modified, should have
been one of 65% to outstanding loan balances at the end of 1972. In early
1973, BROU, under instructions of the Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture,
considering that this adjustment was too high, granted a rebate to borrowers
from proceeds of the export tax, reducing the adjustment to 31% to medium and
big and 16% for beneficiaries wíth holdings under 400 ha. However during the
negotiations of Loan 940-UR approved in October 1973, the Uruguay Government
agreed that, in the future, any tax rebate would be made, not only to borrowers
of PLAN, but to all ranchers who could substantiate that they had improved their
pastures. Starting with indexíng for 1973 subloans, there is a further modi-
fication to the effect. that all loans, regardless of farm size, are adjusted
with 100% of the index for the year. Nominal interest rates have also suffered
continuous changes in the past five years, moving from 9 to 11% p.a. in 1970
and to 3%, 6% and 8% in accordance with farm sizes for 1974 subloans to project
borrowers.
23.       Uncer Loan 940-UR, the LF rediscounts loans granted by BROU under the
Fourth Project in accordance with the following schedule:
Reimbursed      Rediscount Rate      Interest Rates
Ranch/Farm Size            by LF(%)         to BROU (%)         To Sub-borrowers (%)
up to 250 ha  . ......        85               1.0                    3.0
251 to 400 ha .........    85                  4.0                    6.0
More than 400 ha .......      85               6.0                    8.0
Machinery Contractors..       85               6.0                    8.0
All subloans made to sub-borrowers under the Project are in accordance with the
schedule given above. All subloans are adjusted on April 30 of each year by
applying an index constructed by adding to the value of .he índex at the end
of the previous year the lower of the percentage increase in: (a) the average
cost-of-líving index for the 12 months ending on October 31 of the immedíately
preceding year, compared with the average for the previous 12 months, or (b) the



ANlEX 4
Page 9
average price of 41.6 kg liveweight of beef and 5.2 kg of wool during the 12
raonths ending on October 31 of the immediately preceding year, compared with
the average for the previous 12 months. Prepayments are adjusted on an annual
basis, and the final adjustment is, of course, made after the release of the
relevant indices by Government. Repayment terms of subloans reflect the ability
of the investment to service the debt. Terms range from seven to 10 years and
include grace periods of up to four years. If the indexing system (100%
adjustment for all sub-loans) were applied to sub-loans made in 1969 with terms
of seven years including two years grace, the real interest rate obtained would
have ranged between -2% and -8%. It should be recognized that this is not a
bad performance compared to other Latín American countries, where inflation
has increased and medium-and long-term agricultural credit has not been adjusted.
24.       The Bank can justifiably claim credit for participating in the
introduction of the concept of indexation in Uruguay, which is now being
applied also for projects financed by IDB, as well as to the savings and
loan industry in the housing sector. It is fair to say, however, that, in
the livestock sector under high inflation, the best means of achieving the
appropríate level of positive interest rates has not yet been devised. In
common with many other projects (Argentina and Bolivia), the Bank did not
require the use of `cumulative` indices where a choice was given.  The effect
of this over the life of a subloan is probably that real positive interest rates
under high inflation may not necessarily be achieved in practice. In addition,
the Uruguayans did not compound inflation rates in calculating the índex; they
merely added them, and this further weakened the effectiveness of indexation.
Some people feel that indexation has decreased the quantity of funds demanded
by ranchers for investment purposes, but this is an almost inevitable conse-
quence of higher interest rates. In summary, the Bank's search for a satis-
factory formula for making long-term loans under high inflationary conditions
without causing institutional capital erosion, but at the same time maintaining
incentives for investment borrowing, has been only partially successful in
Uruguay and leaves room for improvement. Moreover, the present stabilization
program should reduce the high inflationary conditions of the past years and be
conducive to positive real interest rates.
September 18, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of the Republic (BROU) Project Lending 1969-73 (Adjusted Loans)
Number of Loans per Year - Amount Lent - Average Size Loan - Frequency of Borrowings
Amount Lent -/    Average
---------------Number of Borrowers Served ---------------                              in US$              US$
Year    With First Loan   2nd Loan   3rd Loan   4th Loan   5th Loan             Total      Million per _ear    per Loan
1969           3,386                                                             3,386              3.3               978
1970           1,815           1,087                                             2,902              2.9             1,000
1971           2,455             952         560                                 3,967             10.7             2,697
1972           1,911           1,014         579          364                    3,868              5.7             1,474
1973           2,302           1,115         662          408         297        4,784             10.4             2,174
TOTAL         11 869           4,168       1,801          772         297       18 907             33.0             1,745
Frequency of Borrowings per Borrower to December 31, 1973
No. of Borrowings    No. of Borrowers    % Borrowers   Total No. Loans    % Loans
Only 1 loan                  7,701               65%              7,701             41%
2 loans                2,367               20%              4,734             25%
3 loans                1,029                9%              3,087             16%
4 loans                  475                4%              1,900             10%
5 loans                  297                2%              1,485              8%
TOTAL               11,869              100%             18,907            100%
1/ At average exchange rate of Ur$ 248 to US$1 duríng 1969, 1970 and 1971;
Ur$ 548 to US$1 for 1972, Ur$ 865 to US$1 for 1973, and Ur$1,200 to US$1 for 1974.
Source: BROU
May 9, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Performance Under Previcus Projects
l1unber of FPrms Served by PLAN from 1961-1974
Strata by                Total Area       Farms Potentially in Condition             Farms Served with PLAN Credit
Ferm        Number of    Occupied         to Improve Liveatock Production 2/                  1961-157 P 3/
ha         Farms         ha         Number     %    ha   possessed       %    Number      %    Area Possessed
(1)         (2)           (3)         (4)      %           (5)                  (6)       %           (7)          %
(4/2)                    (5/3)            (6/4)                     (7/5)
0-50     25,330 1/       579,783    8,700   (34)           197,100             3,108   (36)            71,000
51-100     7,927          559,401    4,515   (57)           318,900             2,221   (49)           156,300
101-200     6,603          930,827    4,387   (66)           614,300             2,358   (53)           325,600
201-500     6,734        2,133,398    4,974   (74)         1,578,700             3,462   (69)        1,090,000
501-1000    3,626        2,560,563    3,176   (88)         2,253,300             2,379   (74)         1,667,400
1001-2500    2,784        4,304,841    2,592   (93)         4,003,000             2,022   (78)         3,122,300
Over-2500    1,177        5,338,861    1,118   (95)         5,070,000               423   (37)        1,875,900
Total       54,181       16,407,674   29,462   (54)        14,035,300    (85)   15,973   (54)          8,308,500
Source:  Columns (1), (2) and (3  1970 Census; Column (4),Mini.stry of Livestock; Column (6), PLAN-BRCU Statistics;
Columns (5) and (7, mission.
1/  Does not include 22,982 farms under 10 ha in size, with a total of 110,056 ha.
2/ After discarding 24,719 farms of over 10 ha in size with a total of about 2.4 millioin ha, of which
13,161 farms with about 1.2 million ha are under agricultural crops and the balance have legal
or other problems.
3/  1974 based on preliminary estimates.
October 9, 1974



14NN8X 4
Tabft 3
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
(Lann- 698-UR, 773-UR md 816-UR)
Eapected and Actual Pastura Ipreveaent and Pr-ductiu
1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977
PASTU8E IMPROVEMENT
Prulectad (Cunulative) '000 ha 1/                                                    1,111      1,361       1,611      1,861      2,111      2,361      2,611        -          -
Annual impravment '000 ha 1/                                                      250        250        250        250        250        250         -          -          -
Actual 1.provement '000 has 2/
Ctumu lativ                                                                     1,061      1,221      1,491      1,811      2,119        a
Exisring areas 3/1                                                                844        936      1,131      1,361      1,560       n a               -                -
Appraisal targets '000 ha
T61rd P-nject                                                                     -          -          200        -          -
Fourth Prajecí                                                                    -                     -          255        255
Actaally imprtved .000 ha
Undenr th  Third and Paorth Projacta                                              -          -          234        183        206
Outaide the Prajecta 4/                                                                      -           36        137        102
Tt.al erea iaproved                                                              -                      270        320        308
Ara Uder Production 5/                                                                 700        844         936      1,131      1,361      1,252 5/  1,152       1,060       97S
BEEF PRODUCTION (000 tun lwt.)
Estinated:  Withoat any prajert 61                                                     568        568         568        568        568        568        568        Sr8       568
with previ.us projactn 7/                                                         620        637        658        683        700        718         738
--cnn-ental Third Prejact                                                         -          -          -          -            8         15         20
lare.n.ental Fourth  omajecc                                                      -          -          -           38         78         80         80         79        70
Total expastad sith all foer prtjectn                                                   620        631        658        721        786        813        838
Actually prcducad (tutal) 8/                                                           623        686         716        707        760        811        -
Difference between expected asd actual                                              3         49         58       (14)       (26)         (2)
MEAT PRODUCTION ('000 tons carcass veight)
estinsted aithaut any prcj)ct 9/                                                  284        284        284        264        284        284        284
with previos projects                                                  310        319        329        342        350        359         369
inere--- tal output for Third Prnj-et 10/                                                                                       4          8         10
i---------tal  utput for Fourth Project _l_                                                                         19         34         40         b0         39        39
Tutal Expacrtd meat autput                                                        310        319        329        361        393        407        419
ActuaI  -c-t o-tput 12/                                                                332        366         266        277        307        320        -
D,Lffrencn betveen expanted ad actualautPut                                              22        47        (63)       (84)       (86)       (87)
NATIONAL 88110 PROJECT10N5
Esntinated  ,(000 heads) 13/                                                   6,800      8,564      8,846      9,273       9,860     10,730      11,500
BEEF CON8UXIOT0N EORT8
2.onsumption 700 tas c-ncn  weig8ht)
Prajectad Cnnusuptis, 1/                                                          190        192        195        198        200        203        215
Acttan  ConSuu ptiaa                                                              221        217        176        163        197        206        -
EXPORTS (000 tan carcasa)
Pronjected withoat any prajnct 1/                                                  94         92         89         86         84         al         79
Prajected with thn previous two prujects                                          120        127        134        144        150        156        164
Expaeted increnental napant. Erar  thsrd project                                  -          -          -          -            4          8         10        10          F
Eapecred  spcremantal exports fran fu-rth project                                -           -          -           19         39         40         40        39
Tt.al exp-cted fran fact prajacta                                                 120        127        134        163        193        204        214        -
Actual Exports                                                                    111        149         90        114        110        114 14/   220 15
Difference betnes. eupacted and actual                                            (9)         22        (44)       <49)       (83)       (90)         t
i/  As prajacted b<y Eank Missions Ia 1970.  <The  2hjactlva vas Ca  improve 20/ uf Ulruguay'u livest-ck area  ith annual improve=ents uf 230,00  bu.
4/  PLANIs data.
¡/ Defined es 92% af pr-viaus existing anca plís the areas -mpruv-d durng che yeau ander consideration.
4/ Fi-nanced .utr-dc Prnjact's lnding progran but vith PLAN uasistance.
5,  Eq.alc the pre-iúas yearas existing areas (far ye-na   1969/1973) .ad as 98% st previous  yearns ciastcng arnas (from 1974 on) acth-rt --nccd-niam
on-going prajecta.
si l4.2 cillioa ha a 40 kg beef (liv-eeight) per ha.
7i Firt uníd Sccúud Projects plus uren impraved previoscsly by acee nanchers (128,000 ha).
8/ Centrnl Bank's drat. Inclundas stck changea, ieparta and legal livest-ck experts.
9/  50% dressing percn.tage for carcasas  eat.
10/ Bank Msasian eatimated uncrenastal production par ha sc years:  1(ü), 2(0), 3(40 kg), 5(100 kg), ethen <aa ifnfrnario).
11/  Bank Missani  estinates far iaerenntal production par ha cn years:  1(150), 2(155), 3(155), 4(150) and 5(150>.
12/ PLANas informatin,.
13/  Source:  1970 Cesaca, 1971 PLAN crtinate (as af Jane), 1972-74 LLA4  1urveys, 1975 PLAN s-timate.
1-' A-sunt-   ..Id but set yet exported.
L5/  MAFas estr,ates based sc avatlabillty.
Seprember 1t, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models
1.        Fertilizer Price Projections.  The following table shows the basis
for the fertilizer prices used in the farm models in Table 1 to 8 of this
Annex:
Bank's Projected /1                     Ex-Factory Price
Model       Ex-Factory Price         Index          Constant 1975
Year     Year       Constant 1974 US$/ton  (1975=100)           Ur$/kg
1975      0                167                  100            314.3 (actual)
1976      1                163                   98             308.0
1977      2                156                   93             292.3
1978      3                150                   90            282.9
1979      4                145                   87             273.4
1980      5                143                   86            270.3
1981      6                143                   86             270.3
1982      7                143                   86             270.3
1983      8                143                   86             270.3
1984      9                144                   86             270.3
1985     10                144                   86             270.3
1986     11                144                   86             270.3
1987     12                144                  86              270.3
/1  Fertilizer price projections are based on price of Phosphate Rock, 75% BPL,
f.a.s. Casablanca.  In order to arrive at ex-factory price Uruguay US$35/m
ton was added for transportation, insurance and handling charges plus
US$80/m ton, a Government subsidy, which was removed in 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
2.        Beef Prices.  The following table gives the basis on which the
producer beef prices shown in the farm models (Tables 1 to 8) were calculated:
Beef Price        Corrected      Producer's Price
Model   Bank's      f.o.b. River         Bank      Ur$/         Adjusted
Year   Year    Index  /1  Plate US$  /2         Index /3   Kg  /4          Index
1974             100        1,342                100
1975     0        87           850                63         447          100
1976     1        93                              77         545          122
1977     2       103                              91         644          144
1978     3       106                             105         746          167
1979     4       109                             108         764          171
1980     5       117-                            115         813          182
1981     6       120                             120         849          190
1982     7       123                             123         872          195
1983     8       125                             125         885          198
1984     9       128                             128         907          203
/1   Annex 8.
/2   Estimated per tan in constant prices.
/3   Taking into account the price decrease between 1974 and 1975, and
assuming that from about 1978 on, Bank's projections are about met.
/4   Fat steers live weight.
3.        Some Technical Coefficients.  The basic assumption made in estimating
the before development level of production in the beef/sheep model was that
the production coefficients should be approximately equal to the national
average for these coefficients. A ranch of 700 ha was used in the model in
Tables 1 to 4 because that was the size of the average ianch that borrowed
in recent years.  Similarly, the dairy model is for 75 ha because 75 ha was
the average size of a dairy farmer sub-borrower in recent years. The following
table gives the values of some production coefficients used in calculating
the beef/sheep model:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Before Development    Full Development
Cattle Offtake (%)                              19                   21
Output of beef (kg 1.w./ha)                     55                   66
Stocking rate (A.U./ha)
Cattle                                   053                  0.59
Sheep                                    0.22                  0.22
Liveweíght of animals sold (kg)
Cull bulls                                500                  500
Cull cows                                410                   410
Heifers 3 to 4 years                     400                   400
Heifers 2 to 3 years                      300                  300
Steers 3 to 4 years                      450                   450
Steers 2 to 3 years                      400                   400
Carrying Capacity (A.U./ha)
Unimproved Pasture                       0.69                  0.69
Partly Improved                           1.13                 1.13
Fully Improved                            1.24                 1.24
The other coefficients used are explicitly stated in the footnotes to Tables
1 to 8.
September 18, 1975



A' IVEX 5
Table 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Investment Cost (Ur$1000)
Average 1/            A-crage
Unit per    Unit      Cost per
Ranch       Cost      Ranch          %
1.  Pasture Imrrovement
New Areas - 4O ha
3/
Fertilizer (tons) .................,.12.25            314.0      3,V8h5.5    34.3
Freight (tons) . .........  ............... 12.25      25.0        306.3      2.7
Seed, Conventional Pasture (ha) ......... 10.0         36.0        360.0      3.2
Seed, Oversown and Sod Seeding (ha) .... 15            18.5        27l.5      2.5
Inoculant L/ and sticker 5/  ............ 25            2.3         57.5      0.5
Cost of Cultivation(ha) 6/
Conventioa]. Pasture
Labor (ha) .............. ............. lo            4.4         4.0       0.4
Machinery  (ha) .10............. lo                  73.6        736.0      6.6
Sod Seeding and Oversowing
Labor  ha). .......... ................ 15            0.4 4    6.6          0.1
Machinery  <ha) ....................... 15            8.27       124.0      1.1
Fertilization of Natural Pasture
Labor (ha) .15    0.44  6.6  0.1
Machinery cha).15                                     7.36  110.4  1.0
Fertilizer ComDlement 7/
Fertilizer (tons) .....- ..................  5.3      31h.0      1,664.2    14.9
Freight              ...................  5.3         25           132.5      1.2
Labor (ha) ...... ........................ 53           0.44        23.3      0.2
Machinery (ha) .......................... 53            7.36       390.1      3.5
Total Pasture Imurovement ........8.085.5                            72.3
2. Fencing (m) ..........OO 400                              2.15       860.0      7.7
3. Water Points .-                                           -          900.0  8.o
4. Machinery ................................-        -               1,000.0      8.9
5. Constructions and Buildings ..............-        -                 350.0      3.1
Sub-Total                                               11,195.5    100.0
6.  Ph,ysical Contingency   (10     ,')                               1,119.6
Total Investment                    15..1...
1/  All investments are completed in one year.
2/  Based on: conventional pasture 25%; oversowing and sod seeding 37.[,%; and
fertilized natural pasture 37.5%.
3/ Based on the following ap,lication per ha: conventional pasture 400 kg;
oversowing 300 kg;-fertilized natural pasture 250 kg.
^/  One ba, per 256 j; leg.¡e seeds.
5/ 100 gr per 25 kg of legume seeds.
6/ Average between ranch-owned machinery cost and hiring contractors.
7/  For 53 out or the existing 105 ha of imnroved nastures (100 kg/ha).
May 6, 1975



Table 2
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DeveloDment of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Herd Projection
Y- E   A   R
0      1      2       3      4      5      6       7      8-20
Herd Comiposition
Bull    ...                         7   7  8  8  8   8  8  8  8
Mated Females  .       ......... 175      180   194   198   198    198   198    198   198
Heifers  2-3  years ........ 34            34      29     27     25      28     29     29      29
1-2    n.        .      51       51     51     53      59     61     62     62      62
8-12 months .           53      53      55     61     64      65     65     65     65
Steers    2-3  years ........ 34           34      29     27     24      28     29     30      30
1-2    n.        .      51       51     51     52     60      62     63     63      63
8-12 months             53       53    -54     62     64      65     65     65     65
Cull Cows ................. .    20        20      20     20     20      20     20     20      20
Total Animala .... .....1 W                   91   707       22 7   3      39   _0   _
Total Animals Units .... 372         377    382   3               3Yb    AO
Calves Weaned
110     110   114   128    133   135   135   135   135
Purchases
Buls .2   2  3  3  2  2  2  2 ___3
Total Purcha    ss .2                   2      3      3       2      2      2      2       3
Deaths
Buls ..-  - - 1    - - - 1
Cows ..            ........  5    5    5    6    6    6    6    6    6
Heifers  3-4  years .......    1             1      1      1       1      1      1      1       1
2-3     "     .......    2        2      2      2       2      2      2      2       2
1-2     "     .......    2        2      2      2       2      3      3       3      3
8-12 months ......    2           2      3      2       3      2      3      2       2
Steers    3-4  years    ......    1         1       1      1.     1       1      1      1       1
2-3     "      ......    2       2       2      2      2       2      2      2      2
1-2             ......    2       2      2      2       2      2      2       2      2
8-12 months ......       2        2      2      3       2      3      2       3      3
Total Deaths .19                       19     20     22      21     22     22     22      23
Sales
Cull Bulls ........,....    2                2      2      2       2      2      2      2       2
Cull Cows       . . .              30       30     31     33     34      34     34     34      34
Heifers  3-4 years . .              3        3      3      3       3      3      3      3       3
2-3 " ..                10    5    -    4   9   10  14  16  16
Steers    3-4    ".                33      33      33     28     26      23     27     28     29
2-3    ".               15      15      20     22     26      30     31     31      31
Total Sales  .93                       88     89     92   100   102   111   114   115
Technical Coefficients - %
Weaning Rate .63   63  63  66  67  68  68  68  68
Mortality -
Calves 8-12 months....1 4                    4      4    4      4      4       4      4      4
Cattle 1-2 years .4                       4       4      4      4       4      4      4       4
Adlts .3   3  3  3  3   3  3  3  3
Cow Culling .17   17  17  17  17  17  17  17  17
Heifera 1-2 years ready
for mating .30   30   40  45  50  50  50  50  50
Steers 2-3 years ready for
selling .30   30  40  45  50  50  50  50  50
Hay 5, 1975



t!Rt!CUAY
FTFTIU LIVES1OCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dcvelopmeat of a 700 h, Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Sales and Op,ratlg Costs Pr-í-ct¡o-s (tlS$ '000)
Vear: ..........                         1               2               3               4               5               6                7             8-20
SALES
Cattle                                        16,434         16,116          16,923          16,846           17,673          17,856          19,151          19,491          19,704
Beef price correction index                      100             122            144              167             171             182             190             195             206
Adjusted cattle sales                         16,434         19,662          24,369          28,133           30,221          32,498          36,387          38,007          40,590
Hides                                            117             117             123             135             129             135             135             135             135
Sheep producto                                9.312           9,31            9.3112           .312            9                               9.312                           9.312
Adjasted Total Sales:                     25.863          29.091          33.804          37.58           39.662          41.945          45.834          47.454           50.037
OPERATING COSTS
Lab.r"                                       ó6,170           6,170           6,638           6,638            6,638           6.638           6,638           6,638           6,638
Naintenance
MachineryL2                                 1,520           1,520           1,607            1,607           1,607           1,607           1,607           1.607           1,607
Fences, water pointo and buildinga/3        1,075           1,075           1,140           1,140            1,140           1,140           1,140           1,140           1,140
Gas and oil                                    1,810           1,810          1,900            1,900           1,900           1,900           1,900           1,900           1,900
FertilizerL4                                   3,297           1,632          4,553            4,553           4,553           4,553           4,553           4,553           4,553
Fertilizer freightL/                             262             130             362             362             362             362             362             362              362
Shearing expenses                                541            541             541              541             541             541             541             541              541
Veterinary expenses/-                          1,357           1,362           1,390           1,437           1,472           1,503           1,511           1,513            1,513
Replacements:
BullsL7                                       700             700           1,050           1,050              700             700             700             700              700
kass                                           160            160              160             160             160             160             160             160              160
Others/8                                    7,554           7,554           7,554            7,554           7,554           7,554           7,554           7,554           7,554
Taxea:
INPROME                                     2.450           2,450           2,450           2,450                            2,450           2,450           2,450           2,450
Land tax                                      640             640             640              640             640             640             640             640              640
Social security tax                           700              700             700             700             700             700             700             700              700
OtherzL9                                         851             746             926             928             930             931             931             931              931
Total:                               29,087          27,190          31,661          31,660          31,357          31,379          31,387           31,389          31,389
Fertilizer ptice correction index                100              98              93              90              87              86              86              86               86
Total Adjusted Oper.ting Costa:           29.087          27.157          31.342          31.205            2                 _30.742      30.750          30,752          30_752
L  Farmet Ur$ 2,400,0001 two stockmen Ur$ 1,185,000 per year plus casual tabor (90 man/days Yea,  2 and thereafter at Ur$ 5,200 per man/day).
/2  6% of inventory value.
/3  37. of inventory value.
/4  100 kg of ferttlizer per year/ha.
/5  About 250 km at Ur$ 100 per ton/km.
/6  Cattle Ur$ 1,935 per head; sheep Ur$ 418 per head.
/7  Ur$ 350,000 each.
/8 Machinery 207,; fences, water points and buildings 6.77. of inventory value.
/9 Freight, administratios expenses, grazing fees, etc.
September 6, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 700 ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Cash-Flow Projection
(Ur$'000)
Year .......... 0..               1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9          10         11-20
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales .......     ..................   25,863.0   29,091.0   33,804.0   37,580.0   39,662.0   41,945.0   45,834.0   47,454.0   48,461.0   49,446.0   50,234.0   50,234.0
Investments:
Producer's Contribution ....     ........       -      3,571.4          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Long-term Loans         .         ......        -      8,743.7          -           -           -           -           -                       -           -            -           -
1/
Short-term Loans- ................   .  12,315.3   14,787.1   16,640.8   14,576.5   10,611.7    5,668.4    5,670.0    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4
Previous Year's Cash Balance7 ........    5,337.4    4,952.1    5,788.4    5,761.0    5,673.0    5,668.4    5,670.0    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4
Total Cash Inflow                   43,515.7   61,145.3   56,233.2   57,917.5   55,946.7   53,281.8   57,174.0   58,794.8   59,801.8   60,786.8   61,574.8   61,574.8
Cash Outflow
Investments:
Producer's Contribution ....     ........      -       3,571.4          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -
Long-term Loans .....      ...............      -      8,743.7          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Operating Costs;
Operating Costs Exclusive of Loan
Interest and Family Labor .... ......  26,687.0   24,757.0   28,942.0   28,805.0   28,365.0   28,342.0   28,350.0   28,352.0   28,352.0   28,352.0   28,352.0   28,352.0
Loan Interest
On Long-term Loans (8%) ..........           -           -         699.5       699.5       699.5       699.5       699.5       599.6        419.7       279.8       139.9          -
On Short-term Loans (3%) .........         182.8       369.5       443.6       499.2       437.3       318.4       170.0        170.1       170.1       170.1       170.1       170.1
Loan Repayment:
On Long-term Loans .....      ............      -           -           -                       -           -      1,748.7    1,748.7    1,748.7    1,748.7    1,748.7               -
On Short-term Loans .....      ...........   6,093.8   12,315.3   14,787.1   16,640.8   14,576.5   10,611.7    5,668.4    5,670.0    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4
2/
Producer's Cash Withdrawals ..........    5,600.0    5,600.0    5,600.0    5,600.0    6,200.0    7,640.2   14,867.0   16,584.0   17,770.5   18,895.4   19,823.3   21,711.9
Total Cash Outflow                  38,563.6   55,356.9   50,472.2   52,244.5   50,278.3   47,611.8   51,503.6   53,124.4   54,131.4   55,116.4   55,904.4   55,904.4
Expected Cash Balance at End of Year            4,952.1    5,788.4    5,761.0    5,673.0    5,668.4    5,670.0    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4    5,670.4
1/ .It is assumed that the requirements for short-term cash resources are at least equal to
40% of operating costs exclusive of loan interest and family labor.
2/  Cash available for living and other family uses.  The long-term loan is paid from                                                                                                                  o-
incremental income only, because the level of producer's cash withdrawals is not
permitted to drop below the level existing before development in year 0.                                                                                                                            Z 
Note:  Debt service payments in the above table are calculated in real terms since all
entries are in February/March 1975 prices. The 3% interest rate charged on short-term
borrowings is a conservative estimate of the real interest rate. The rate charged on
long-term loans is a real rate and in practice, due to inflation, will be more easily
handled than appears from this table; the above shows the 'worst case' from the
sub-borrowers viewpoint.
SepLember 7, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 5
URUGUAY
FTIrH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm
Investnent Cost (Ur$'000)
Average No.                Average
of Unit per     Unit      Gost per
Farm 1/       Cost      Farm
Pasture Improvement
New Areas 2/
Fertilizer (tons)3/ ................  3.6        314.0       1,130.4    24.7
Freight (tons)...7 .................  3.6        10.0           36.0      0.8
Seed, Conventional Pasture (ha) ....  7.0        36.0          252.0      5.7
Inoculant 4/ and sticker 5/ (ha) ...   7           2.3         16.1      o.L
Cost of Cultivation (ha) 67
Conventional Pasture
Labor (ha) .......................  7            4.4          30.8      0.7
Macninerv (ha) ...................  7           73.6         515.2    11.5
Fertilization of Natural Pasture...
Labor (ha) .......................  3            o.4h          1.3      0.0
Machinery (ha) ....................  3           7.36         22.1      0.5
Fertilizer Comrlement 7/.
Fertilizer (tons) ..................  1.5      314.0         471.0    10.4
Freight (tons) ...................  1.t        10.0           15.0     0.6
Labor (ha) ....... ............... 15            0.44          6.6      0.1
Machinery vha) ................... 15            7.36        110.4      2.4
Total Pasture Imnrovement. .....                               9        57.
2.  Fencing (m) ......................... 150            2.15        322.5      7.2
3. Water Points ........................                -            340.0      7.5
4. Machinery ............................                -           950.0    21.1
5.  Constructions and buildings .........                            300.0      6.7
Sub-Total                                              h.519.h    100.0
6.  Physical Contingency (10) .                                      451.9
Total Investment                                        4,971 3
1/   Al  investments are made within one year.
2/  Based on conventional pasture 7 ha, fertilized natural
pasture 3 ha giving a total improvement of 10 ha.
3/ Based on the following application per ha: conventional
pasture 400 kg, fertilized natural nasture 250 kg.
4/  One bag uer 25 kg of legume seeds.
/  100 gr per 25 kg of legume seeds.
6/  Average between farmer-owned machinery cost and hiring contractors.
7/ For 15 out of the existing 20 ha of Inmproved pmt2res (100 kg/ha).
May 6, 1975



A N¡EX 5
Table 6
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 75 ha Dairy Farm
Herd Proiections
Y   E   A  -R
0     1      2     3     4      5     6      7-20
Herd Composition
Bulls .........................      2      2     2      2     2     2      2       2
Cows.  .........................    35    35    36    36    37    38    38         38
Heifers  2-3 years ............      9      9     8      8     9     9      8       8
1-2 "   .....9.......       9     9    10    11    12    10    12         12
Heifer Calves .................    10    1C    11    12    11    12    13          13
Bull Calves .......... .........     3      3     5      7     7     7      7       7
Total Animals ........                                    7 
Total Animal Units ...    55    55    56    57    60    59    60          60
Births
Heifer Calves .................   12    12    12    13    13   1i    1h            14
Bull Calves ...................   12    12    12    13    13    13    14           14
Total Births ....... .                                    777
2T    -2     -'2    -G    -           -2      -2
Purchases
Bulls ......... ................     -      -     -     1      2     -      -       -
Deaths
Bulls      .        .............    -      -     -      -     1     -      -        -
Cws .1 1 1 1 1 1 1  1
Heifers 2-3 years . ...........         -     -         1      -     -      -       -
1-2   .1.............              1     -      -     -      1     -        1
Heifer Calves .................      2      2     1     1      2     2      1       1
Steers  1-2 years .............      -      -     -      -     1     -      -       -
Bull  Calves .Mo.     . .....        1      1     2      2     1     1      2       2
Total Mortality                                 2     1               4
Sales
Bulls .........................      -      -     -      1     1     -      -       -
Cull Cows .....................      7      7     7      7     7     7      7       7
Heifers 3-4 years .............      1      1     1      1     1     3      3       3
2-3    . ..............      -     -     -      -     -      -     -        1
Steers 1-2   "...............    3          3     3     5      6     7      7       7
Bull Calves    .       ..........    8      8                  5     5      5        5
Total Sales ...........    19    19    16            20    22    22        23
Technical Coefficients - %
Birth Rate ....................    70    70    70    72    73          74     75      75
Mortality Rate - Calves   ......   12    12    12    12    12          12     12      12
Mortality Rate - Adults ......       3      3     3      3     3        3      3       3
Culling Rate - Cows ..... .....   20    20    20    20    20           20     20      20
Heifers Calving at 2-3 years..       0      0    10    10    20        20     20      25
Average Milk Production per
Lactation (lt) ...........    2, 400  2,400  2,400  2,400  2,400  2,400  2,400  2,400
Total MHlk Production (lt)....55,200 55, 200 55,200 60,000 60,000 62,400 62, 400 62,00
Milk Fed to Calves (lt) .....  4 680  4,680  5,760  6,840  6,840  6,840  7,200  7,200
Milk Sold ................... 50,520 50,520 49,440 53,160 53,520 55,560 57,600 57,600
Concentrates Fed per Cow(kg)    650    650    625    600    575    550    525    500
Total Concentrates Fed (tons) 14.95  14.95  15.62  25.o0  14.37  14.30  14.17  13.50
May 6, 1975



UiUCUAY
02730I LIVF:510CK D_VtLOPlE0:T PRO)JICT
Scvlo;n;eat of a 75 ha D ;Iry F.dro
bales snd Operatíno Costs Pro jectforo
(U-$ '000)
Ye     ar: ...............     0                1                2               3                4                5                6              7-20
SALES
Cattle.                                          1,270.8          1,069.6         1,053.7          1,535.6          1,593.8          1,752.ó          1,752.6          1,985.6
Beef príic  correctlo- index                       100              122              144             167              171              162              190              205
Adjuated cattle sales                            1.270.8          1,304.9         1,517.3          2,564.4          2.725.4          3,189.7         3,329.9          4,070.5
MiikL                                          12.693.1        12.693.1         12.453.4         13.368.0         13.359,2         13.. 1.3,        14,264.9        14,264.9
Adjusted Total S.le.,                           13.963.9        13.998.0         13,970.7         15.932.4         ¿                17.001.7         17,594.8        18.335.4
OPERATING COSTS
Fa,fily 1abor/2                                  2,400.0          2,400.0         2,400.0          2,400.0          2,400.0          2,400.0          2,400.0          2,400.0
Hired laborL3                                    1,911.0          1,963.0         1,963.0          2,015.0          2,015.0          2,015.0          2,015.0          1,015.0
Malntenance machineryL4                          1,093.9          1,093.9         1,279.8          1,407.8          1,407.8          1,407.8          1,407.8          1,407.8
>4aintenonce,¿encíng. water points and
baildogs-.-                                      271.3            271.3           296.7            296.7            296.7            296.7            296.7            296.7
Gas and oíl/5                                      815.3            815.3            985.9         1.084.5          1,084.5          1.084.5          1,084.5          1.084.5
FertiíiserL6                                       628.0            157.0            942.0            942.0           942.0            942.0            942.0            942.0
Fertilizer freight/7                                20.0              5.0             30.0             30.0             30.0            30.0             30.0             30.0
Veteritary expenses/8                              204.0            204.0            212.9            226.3           230.7            232.9            239.5            239.5
Conentrate rations                               3,513.2          3,513.2          3,670.7          3,525.0         3,376.9          3,360.5          3,329.9          3,172.5
A..nnal forage cropsL9                           1,947.3          1,947.3          1,730.9          1,730.9         1,586.7          1,586,7          1,586.7          1,586.7
Bull repl.cements                                     -               -                -             500.0          1,000.0               -               -                -
Taxes                                              203.6            203.6            203.6            203,6           203.6            203.6            203.6            203.6
Sub-total:                                    13,007.6        12,573.6         13,715.5         14,361.2         14,573.9         13,559.7        13,535.7         13,378.3
Ni.cellaneo.. (107.)                             130.0            125.7            137.1           143.6            145.7            135.5            135.7            133.7
Total:                                        13,137.6        12,699.3         13,852.6         14,504.8         14,719.6         13,695.2        13,671.0         13,512.0
Fertilizer priou correction inde.                   100              90               93               90              87               86               86               86
Total Adjusted Operating Costs:               13.137.6        12.696.2         13,786.7         14.410,6         14_597.1         13.56333         13.539.1        13.380.1
/I  ilk for líquid constimption Ur$ 261/littr (quots); milk for industry lrS 222/líter (on-qaota).
/2  Pamily labor Vr$ 2.4 million/year.
/3  Mlklban Ur$ 1.807 oillion; occasional labor Ur$ 5,200 per day; 20 -n/days before develop-ent; 30 man/daya fo Years 1 and 2; 40  san/dsyo there-fter.
/4  Machínery 107.; fencing, water supply and b.ílding. 3%.
/5  Excldíng fuel and oíl used fn annual forage crops.
/6  100 kg/ha fo-  -aant- a..ce.
17  Ur$ 100/toe/ka, 100 km.
/8  Coes Ur$ 2,342/head; calves UrS 2,987/head; others UrS 1,533/head.
/9 15 ha for gra.fag Years 0 snd 1; 12 h. Years 2 and 3; and 10 ha thereafter.
September 6, 1975



Pi FIS 1.10VESOCK IWlVELOPIIENT PROJEC0 T
l9cvrlop¡acl__of a75 hsa l)airv Faram
(Ur5'000)
Year .       ,        0           1            2           3           4            5           6            7            8          9-20
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales .........................   13,963.9   13,998.0   13,970.7   15,932.4   16,084.6   17,001.7   17,594.8   17,921.1   17,977.4   18,146.1
Invewstenta
Producer's Contributíon ............             -       1,392.0          -           -           -            -                        -            .           -
Long-term Lo.s .-                                        3,S7.9..........   3573
Short-term Loana .1                                -            -    707.2 _                      308.4    -                  -           -            -            -
Previous Year's Cash Balance          . .1,789.6           1,716,0    2,117.9    2,001.8    1,787.9    1,860.6           1,856.5    1,830.0        1,830.0     1,830.0
Total Caah Inflow                    15,753.5   20,685.3    16,795.8   17,934.2   18,180.9   18,862.3   19,451.3   19,751.1    19,807.4   19,976.1
CsEh Outflov
Investsments
Producer's Contribut£on ..1,392.0 _                            ,      _     _     _ _
Long-term Loana .-   3,579.3
Operating Costs
Operating Costs Exclusive of Loan
Interest and Fsmily Labor ......... , 10,737.6   10,296.2   11,386.7   12,010.6   12,197.1   11,1l3.3   11,139.1   10,980.1   10,980.1   10,980.i
Loan Interest
On Long-tera Loans (31)                        -           -         107.4        107.4       107.4         85.9        64.4        42.9         21.5
On Short-term Loana (3>)                       -                        - -        21.2         -            9.2         -            -                        -
Loan Repayment
On Long-term Loans ...............                                        -           -         715.9        715.9       715.9        715.9       715.9
On Short-term Loans , .............              -           -                      707.2    _               308.4          .           -            -
2/
Producer's Cash Withdrawalsa.  --- ......      3,299.9    3,299.9    3,299.9    3,299.9    3.299.9    4,723.1    5,701.9    6,182.z    6,259.9    7,166.0
Total Cash Outflov                   14,037.5   18,567.4   14,794.0   16,146.3   16,320.3   17,005.8   17,621.3   17,921,1   17,977.4   18,146.1
Expected Cash Balance st End of Years            17160       2 117.9    2 001.B    1.787.9        1 860.t6    1856.5    1.830.0    1 830 0           1 830.0     1,830.0
1/  lt is asssmed that the requ£rements for short-teram cash resources are at least equal to
two months operating cost due to lags In receiving payment for msilk.
2t  Cash avaílable for living and other famíly uses.  The long-tera  loan ís paid from
incremental incomie only, because the level of producer's cash wvthdrawals is not
permitted to drop below the level exist£ng before development in year 0.
Note:  Debt service payments in the above table are calculated £o real tepes since a11
entríes are in FebruaryfMarch 1975 prices.  The 3% ínterest rate charged osn short-term
borrow£ngs ia a conservative estimate of the real interest rate.  The rate ciarged
on long-teram 1ans is a real rate and ia practice, due t. inflati.n, will be more
easily handIed than appears from th£s table; the above shows the 'worst case' from
the sub-borrowers viewpoint.
September 7, 1975



UIRUGUAY
FIFTH L[VESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Phasing of Investrnents
Ur$ Million            US$ '000 Equivalent/1            Number of Units
Year 1  Year 2  Total    Year 1  Year 2  Total    Unit   Year 1 Year 2 Total]
On-Farm Investments
Beef, Cattle/Sheep Farms         19,032  19,032  38,064    9,810   9,810  19,620   Farms  1,700  1,700  3, 1?0
Dairy Farms                       4,067   4,067   8,134    2,096   2,096   4           Farms    900    900  1 8__
Sub-total:      23,099  23,099  46,198   11,906  11,906  23,812              2,600  2,600  5,200
Contractor Machinery                  759      759   1,518       391      391      782   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
Technical Services                  1,164   1,164   2,328        600      600   1,200   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
Sub-total:      25,022  25,022  50,044   12,897  12,897  25,794
Contingencies
Physical (10S,)                   2,502   2,502   5,004    1,290   1,290   2,580
Price¿2                                                      1,584   2,802   4,346
Sub-total:                                  2,834   4,092   6,926
Total:                                     15,731  16,989  52,720
/1 Ur$ 1,940 to US$1.00.
72  Base-line cost estlmates are as of February/March 1975.
Inflation in dollar terms is expected to be 10.8% in 1975, dropping to 8% by 1977.
September 7, 1975



ANNEX 7
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
(USs 1003)
Bank
Fiscal Year                       Cumulative                 Balance of
and Quarter                     Amount Disbursed                Loan
1976
March 31, 1976                         0                    17,000
June 30, 1976                        100                    16,900
1977
September 30, 1976                 3,000                     1h,000
December 31, 1976                  7,000                     10,000
March 31, 1977                     8,000                      9,000
June 30, 1977                      8,500                     8,500
1978
September 30, 1977                11,500                     5,500
December 31, 1977                 15,500                      1,500
March 31, 1978                    16,500                        500
June 30, 1978                     17,000                          0
September 7, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prospects for Beef Exports
S_unmary
1.        The price of beef (Argentina frozen, c.i.f. Hamburg) is projected
to increase from 318v per kg in 1973 to 3351 per kg in 1980 and 372¿ per kg
in 1985, in constant 1973 dollars. In current dollars, the 1980 price will
be 658¿ per kg and the 1985 price 1,0251 per kg. A sharp drop in price is
expected in 1975 and 1976 resulting primarily from the imposition of import
restríctions by the European Economic Community and also from the slowdown
in import demand in the United States.
2.        Following the adoption by the EEC of measures to encourage beef
productícrn in 1972, the supply of meat in the area increased very rapidly from
the beginning of 1974. An import ban was imposed ín the second week of
September as the self-sufficiency ratio of the EEC approached 100%.  In the
United States the withholding of beef from the market during the period of
price controls in 1973, and the effects of the current econonic recession on
consumer denmand have resulted in some pressure of supplies on prices, which
in turn led to withdrawals of animals from the market through slaughtering
and transfer of herds from feedlots to grassland.
3.        The wave of slaughterings which occurred in thie wake of worsening
market conditions in both the United States and thc EEC may have slowed down
price decreases in the shoft term but their effect on the production cycle
is probably not marked enough to result in a period of short supply before
1977-78. In the EEC, however, the self-sufficiency ratio is expected to re-
turn to around 92% by 1980, leaving room for an expansion of imports from
developíng countries.  The growth of imports from these countries should
also resume at a normal rare in the United States in the last years of the
present decade. The projection of price rnovements from 1980 to 19S5 assumes
a cycle peak in 1972-83 in hoth imiporting areas and a gradual reduction of
domestic supply to a trough in the second half of the 1980s.
4.        The income elastícíty of demand for beef in most countríes is
,l,enerallv high compared sçith demand for substitutes, ¡t tends to íncrease with
the rise in inconies until consumption per head reaches the levels recorded
in developed countries. The cross-price elasticity with non-meat substitutes
is lovi at low income leveis.  For the world as a whole, the income elasticitv
averages 0.38.  The price elastícity of demand in major importing countries
is estimated at -1.25.
S.        In view of the regulation of the markets for major agricultural
products in the EEC, institutional factors play a major role in assessing



ANNEX 8
Page 2
prospects for developing countries' exports of meat. Thus, a reversal of
policies resulting in greater support for dairy as opposed to meat production
in EEC might considerably enlarge the market for imported meats in that area.
In projecting prices for beef, it has been assumed that the present policy
stance which is basically biased in favor of meat production will be maintained
substantially unchanged during the projection period. In view of the im-
portance of the EEC, however, lower world prices would result if the EEC
maintained policies aimed at self-sufficiency during the remainder of this
decade.
Demand
6.        World demand for beef as represented by import requirements is
projected to grow by 6% in the period 1973-1980 and by 5.3% in 1980-1985.
Import requirements are expected to be lower than export availabilities until
about 1976-77 and to increase rapidly thereafter.
7.        In projecting demand, it has been assumed that relative prices of
beef, pork and poultry would remain constant. Changes in the pork-beef
ratio have been small and erratie in the past and in the absence of any
trend in the ratio the assumption appears reasonable. In contrast, the
poultry-beef price ratio has declined steadily during the last two decades.
Initially, this resulted from the introduction of new cost reducing technology
in poultry production as well as from marked increases in beef prices. In
more recent years it appears that the change in the ratio was mainly the
result of changes in beef prices.  Cost reducing technological improvements
ín poultry production are expected to proceed much slower in future as the
available technology is now almost universally in use. In certain developing
areas, poultry production is still expanding rapidly but that development will
not affect world demand for beef.
8.        Demand and supply projections have been made for 18 countries
accounting for about 90% of world trade in fresh, chilled and frozen beef.
It was assumed that exports of 100,000 tons would be available annually
through 1980 from countries outside the 18 country group. Price changes
necessary to clear the market (the difference between net import requirements
and net export availabilities of 18 major trading countries) were calculated
for each year of the projection period, using an import price elasticity of
demand of -1.25. The estimated price changes refer to the average price of
traded beef in the different forms In which it is traded.
SupplY
9.        World production of beef is expected to grow by 2.8% per annum in
1973-1980 and 1980-1935. Exports of developing countries will show average
increases of 5.5% in both periods. In the light of recent developments in
the beef market it would appear that the price elasticity of supply of beef
ís farily high ín the short term. These developments, however, are atypical
in view of the special institutional factors which have influenced markets.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
In general, the elasticity of supply of beef is low in the medium term due
to the natural constraints imposed on herd building and of the timing
requirements of slaughterings.
10.       Taking into account these constraints, supply has been projected
by extrapolatiñg production trends with the help of functions incorporating
a cyclical component. In certain cases where countries had definite plans
to expand production at the faster rate than in the past, the supply pro-
jections were modified to take these plans into account.
Trade
11.       The bulk of world trade in beef takes place between Australia and
New Zealand and developing country exporters from Latín America on the one
hand, and Western Europe and the United States on the other. Projected
import requirements of the United States and of the EEC represent 80% of
projected world import requirements in 1980. Australia and new Zealand
will account for about 60% of the projected 1980 exports and developíng
countries for about one-third of the world total. A number of developing
countries, notably Brazil in South America and all importing countries in
the Middle East are expected to become major new sources of demand for
ínternationally traded beef. In the case of the Middle East, the prospective
growth of demand is not expected to affect world trade substantially.
Brazilian imports, on the other hand, are projected to grow four-fold from
now until 1980 and to remain at approximately the 1980 level through 1985.
Prepared by Commodities & Export
Projections Division
May 28, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beefr Production, Exports, Imports, 1962-1985
Growth Rates (% per annwnn)
1973       1976       1980        1985     1962-73   1973-76  1973-80  1980-85
Production (million tons)
Developed Countries               21.6                                                  n.a.      2.7      2.7
Developing Countries              11.4                                         1.9      n.a.     4.0       4.0
Centrally Planned Countries        8.1                                         3.4      n.a.     1.0       1.0
World                             40.1                                         3.1      n.a.      2.8      2.8
Exports (thousand tons)
Developed Countries            1,410.0     1,2h9.0    2,285.0       2,950.0    5.6      -4.0      7.1      5.2
Developing Countries             923.0       936.0    1,340.0       1,755.0    5.5       0.5      5.5      5.5
Centrally Planned Coantries      110.0        50.0        150.0       185.0    6.2     -14.5      4.4      4.4
World                          2,443.0     2,235.0      3,775.0     h,890.0    5.6      -3.0      6.Á      5.3
Imports (thousand tons)
Developed Countries            2,230.0     1,894.0     2,990.0      3,700.0    7.0      -5.3      4.3      4.3
Developing Countries             1h0.0       186.0        600.0       960.0  10.0       10.0    23.0      10.0
Centrally Planned Countries      137.0       155.0        185.0       230.0    4.4       4.4      4.4      4.h
World                          2,507.0     2,235.0      3,775.0     4,890.0    7.0      -3.5      6.o      5.3
1/ Fresh, chilled and frozen meat.
May 26, 1975
1-cD



ANNEX 8
Table 2
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fresh, Chilled and Frozen Beef Price Projections
Argentine Chilled Rump Boneless CIF Smithfield
Constant 1973             Constant 1974L1               Current
UK pence     US ¢           UK pence      US 0        UK pence       US ¢
Year     per kilo    per kilo         per kilo   per kilo       per kilo    per kilo
1973       130(actual)  318             148          362          130(actual)   318
1974       122(actual)  285             139          325          148(actual)   346
1975       108/2         249            123          284          1462           336
1976       115           265            131          302          169            389
1977       127           293            145          334          202            465
1978       131           302            150          344          224            515
1979       135           311            154          354          248            570
1980       146           335            166          382          286           658
1985       162           372            184          424         4U6          1,025
/1 Derived by inflation constant 1973 prices by 14.0% the estimated inereases
in the international price index between 1973 and 1974.
/2  Actual price average between January-June, 1975.
Note: The exchange rate was UK L 1 = US$2.452 in 1973 and UK L 1 = US$2.339 in
1974. The exchange rate for the future was assumed to be that applicable
at the end of June 1975, e.g., UK L 1 = US$2.30.
September 8, 1975



URUGUAY
FIETH LIVESTOCK DEVELOCPENT PnOJEIT
Fi.nUIaí F t- of 8.tton C.íí.ttioos
Y.": ....,.,,  .        0               1               2               3              4               5                6               7               a               9             30-19              20
MODEL OF A 700 HA BE0/0SEEP 0IANCH
With eheFo jsuect
S.l...                                                            25,863.0        29,091.0        33,804.0        37,580.0        39,662.0        41,945.0        45,834.0        47.454.0        48,461.0        49,446.0         50.234.0        53,bS.0-
Ope-ett"g coots                                                   29,087,0        27,157.0        31,342.0        31,205.0        30,765.0        30,742.0        30,750.0        30,752.0         30,75Z.0        30.752.0        30.752.0        30,752.0
0ov-.ítteot                                                           1- 1231510                                       -               -               -                                                                                           -----
FiínaoRel  B.oefits:                                           (3,224.0)      (10,381.0)        2,462.0         6,375.0         8,897.0        11,203.0        15,084.0        16,702.0        17,709.0         18,694,0        19,482.0        23,083.0
tíntbeut th. PooíectL2
0.1 .                                                             25,863,0        29,478.0        33,094.0        36,874.0        37,531.0        39,339.0        40,654.0        41.473.0        41.968.0        42,790.0         43,447.0        41 447.0
Op.rotlog  -o-tr                                                  29.087.0        29.021.0        2  856.0        28.757.0        28 658.0        20.625.0        28.625.0        28,625.0        28.625.0         28,625.0        28.625.0        2
FPAíoloí  B e..fit.:                                           (3,224.0)          437.0         4,238.0         8,117.0         8,873.0        10,714.0        12,029.0        12,850.0        13,343.0         14,165.0        14,822.0        14,822.0
LIet.,emteí Set FA      1 h onettt.:                                     -         (10.838.0)  ()     ,W            (1.742.0)                          49.0    4      .0 0           3.832.0    5     5.660           4.529,0         4."66.0 0       8.261.0
Fíreotlel F^et  of 6et.ro:  16.0%
Mt01EL OF A 75 hA DAIR2 FA7l
W1th ti.. 0403.10
S.1.                                                             13,Y63.9        13.998.0        13,970.7        15,932.4        16,084.6        17,001.7        17,594.8        17.921.1        17.977.4        18.071.1         186146.1        19,640.2
Opr.tiog .o.t.                                                    13,137.6        12,696.2        13.786.7        14,410.6        14,597.1        13,563.3        13.539.1        13,380.1        13,380.1         13.380.1        13,380.1        13,380.1
novot-- nt                                                                         4.971.3                                                                                                              L-            --
Fiíe.. 1l  oB0ef1to:                                              826.3        (3.669.5)          184.0         1,521.8         1,487.5         3,438.4         4,055.7         4,541.0         4,597.3          4,691.0         4,766.0         6,260.1
Without tho     L.,L2
Soleo                                                             13,963.9        14,157.1        14,421.1        14,697.1        14,745.1        14,877.1        14,973.1        15,033.1        15,069.1         15,129.1        15,177.1        15,177.1
Oporatlug  -o-ts                                                  13.137.6        13.125.0        13,093.6        13.074,8        13,0S .013.049.6                                13.049.6        13.049.6 13,044.4 13.0049.6                      13 _049.6
Ff-Ciutol Beoofito:                                               826.3         1,032.1         1,327.5         1,622.3         1,689.1         1,827.5         1,923,5         1,983.5         2.019.5          2,079.5         2,127.5         2,127.5
le--- eoteí NSet Fluercial  .. efíto:                                    -          (4.701.6)   ( 1.143.53  ( ) 2H5 (2016)                           1.102.2 2.577.5                                                  2.611.5         2.638.5         4.132.6
Fin-nci-l Reto of Returo: 21.6%
/1 Thio figure Lnclud.. e-crotent1e heod valuo.
2  Solos .od uper-tI.g  --eto chang  due to.  pected Choeg.e lo th. re-1 pricet 0f f rtilte-r --d boef.
Septe=ber 6, 1975



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
URUGUAY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
1.        The economic rate of return of the Project was calculated on the
basis of data shown in Table 1. Key assumptions and adjustments were that:
(a) the prices of all investnent and operating cost items in constant
February/March 1975 prices would remain unchanged throughout the
life of the Project except for the price of fertilizer, which was
assumed to follow the projections given by the Bank's Commodities
and Export Projections Division (Annex 5);
(b) the prices of all outputs in constant February/March 1975 prices
would remain unchanged throughout the life of the Project except
for the price of beef which was assumed to follow the projections
given by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division
(Annexes 5 and 8);
(c) incremental herd values were credited to the Project at
the end of the life of the investments in 20 years;
(d) all PLAN administrative and technical services provided
to the Project were charged to the Project on a prorated
basis with on-going projects;
(e) since the 10% export tax on beef is a transfer payment within
the economy, farmgate beef prices were adjusted upwards
to compensate for this;
(f) the present exchange rate (February/March 1975) was assumed
to equal the shadow exchange rate; and
(g) financial wages on ranches equal shadow wage rates since
unemployment is very low in these areas.
2.        The economic rate of return under these and other assumptions are
shown below:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Economic Rates of Return
3,400 Beef/Sheep   1,800 Dairy
Alternative Assumptions           Total_Prgject        Ranches            Farms
Best Estimate (para 1)                18.0              17.2              19.6
Fertilizer Price Increases by 10%   17.6                16.8              19.4
Price of Beef Decreases by 10%        16.4              15.2               18.8
Price of Beef Increases by 20%        21.2              20.6              21.2
September 15, 1975



URUIUAY
FIITI LIVESTMCK IEVFLOPIMSL'l PROJECT
-wioTc Rate of R,turn Calculstions
(Ur5 Millions)
Year .............    1             2            3           4           5           6            7           8           9          10-19        20
3,400 Beef/Sheep Ranches
Incremental Sales:
Beef                                      (657.9)      538.9    2,366.7    4,772.0    8,001.9   13,175.9   18,909.3   21,140.0   22,291.6   23,014.2   33,692.4
Hides                                                   10.2         40.8        51.0        51.0        61.2         61.2        61.2        61.2         61.2        61.2
Total                         (657.9)      549.1    2,407.5    4,823.0    8,052.9   13,237.1   18,970.5   21,201.2   22,352.8   23,075.4   33,753.6
Incremental Operating Coste:
Fertilizer                              (2,773.9)    (788.1)   3,876.9    3,748.7    3,693.9    3,672.6    3,672.6    3,672.6    3,672.6                3,672.6    3,672.6
Other On-Farm                           (1,336.0)      818.0    4,391.0    3,959.0    3,482.0    3,535.0    3,552.0    3,555.0    3,534,0               3,492.0    3,492.0
Technical Assistance                         -            -         192.0       192.0       192.0        91.0         91.0        91.0        91.0          -           -
Banking Services                           419.0       837.0       419.0        419.0       419.0       419.0        209.0       209,0       209.0           -          -
Total                       (3,690.9)      866.9    8,878.9    8,318.7    7,786.9    7,717.6    7,524.6    7,527,6    7,506.6              7,164.6      7,164.6
Investments:
On-Fara                                 20,935.0   20,935.0           -           -           -                        --                                   -           -
Technical Assistance                       836.0       836.0          -           -           -          _             -         _            _             -         _
Total                       21,771.0   21,771.0           -         _             -           -            -           -           -            -           -
Total Costs                               18,080.1   22,637.9    8,878.9    8,318.7    7,786.9    7,717.6    7,524.6    7,527.6    7,506.6    7,164.6    7,164.6
Sales Adjusted for the 10%
Export Tax on Beef                          (730.3)      608.4    2.666.8    5.347.9    8.933,1   14.686.4   21.050.5   23.526.6   24.804.9   25.607.0   37.459.8
Econromíc Rate of Return:   17.2%
1.800 Dairy Faras
Incremental Sales:
Mrilk                                        -        (216.0)       392.0    1,207.0    1,606.0    2,422.0    2,830.0    2,830.0    2,830.0    2,830.0    2,830.0
Beef                                      (221.0)      (533.7)       85.3       895.1    1,286.2    1,613.0    2,078.3    2,528.2    2,579.8    2,663.2    3,173.8
Total                         (221.0)     (749.7)      477.3    2,102. 1    2,892.2    4,035.0    4,908.3    5,358.2    5,490.8    5,493.2    6,003.8
Incremental Operating Costs:
Pertilizer                                (415.4)    (152.5)        517.2       500.1       488.8       486.0        486.0       486.0        486.0       486.0        486.0
Other On-Farm                             (114.0)       247.0    1,310.0    2,090.0    1,360.0          416.0        256.0       113.0        108.0       108,0        108.0
Technical Assistance                          -           -         103.0       103.0       103.0         48.0        48.0        48.0         48.0         -            -
Banking Services                            89.0        179.0        89.0        89.0        89.0         89.0        45.0        45.0         45.0         -            -
Total                         (440.4)      273.5    2,019.2    2,782.1    2,040.8    1,039.0             835.0       692.0       687.0        594.0       594.0
Investments:
On-Farm                                  4,474.0    4,474.0           -           -            -           -           -           -                        -            -
Technical Assistance                       445.0       445.0          -                 -            -           -           -            -
Total                        4,919.0    4,919.0                       -         _             -            -           -            -                       -
Total Costs                                4,478.6    5,192.5       2,019.2    2,782.1    2,040.8    1,039.0           835.0       692.0        687.0       594.0        594.0
Sales Adjusted for the 10r/l
Export Tax on Beef                          (245.3)    (808.4)        486.4    2,200.6    3,033.7    4,212.4    5,136.9    5,636.3    5,693.6    5,786.2    6,352.9
Economic Rate of Return:   19.67.
September 7, 1975



URUGUAY
FIFTH ULVESTOiCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL LOCATION OF MAIN FARM TYPES
Bo¿ Rapubli,c (BROUI Fisid Brandlies
Pro{ectñ Arco 0ff ces
A    R    T    I                 S         e                             .TProjecEs Regirl Offices
Ma2iny Beef Cattes and Sheep
tn asnlOr                                      "   (                                                  " E l a 0a-I!BwIt Soil?'MiiMinty (eef CGtfle and Sheep
j ji"fX              s r         4r         /             \ x ¡ rMi.ed F ring oM  Beef Cttfie Fotetning
¡               EV VERA                             Mixed Fc)rming, Doiryirnond Pi;s
Second.ry Roods
-'-'-.- Riíroodns
- -       Deportmentí  oundcries
interrrtioncd Bound&ries
11  A,;20    40    60    so   0oE
w
COL    ONI-           A A    S   A       N    D   U             A   C   U
PYSANDÚ                                          /                               1 E                               \
OE    R   R                                                                                                            L    AARER
-                            ~~~~~~~MONTEVIDEO                             no  lEee 
ARGENTINAAT  ANT/COCEAN                                                                                                                                         ilne ,_
0   Sb'  X       X  :;     .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~56-                                                 54- 



