Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7451-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
April 16,2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infiastture
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfbrmance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatioaL



Curresiy and Excdawn  Rakt
(as of March 28,2001 )
Currency Unit = Dirham (MUAD)
US$1.00 = MAD 10.9
FiSCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB          African Development Bank
ADM          Societt des Autoroutes du Maroc
Al            Alternative Infrastructures
ANRT         Agence Nationale de Reglementation du Secteur des TMlecommunications
AOL           Administration on line
BAJ          Barnamaj al Aoulaouiyat al Ijtimaiya (Social Priority Program)
BAM          Barid Al-Maghrib (the postal operator)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCP           Comptes Cheques Postaux
CDG           Caisse de Dipot et de Gestion
CEN           Caisse d'Epargne Nationale
CMU           Country Management Unit
CTF           Consultant Trust Funds
EU            European Union
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GIPE          Gestion Integree du Personnel de I 'Etat
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GMPCS         Global Mobile Personal Communications System
GOL           Government on line
GOM           Government of Morocco
GPCS          Global Personal System for Mobile Communications
GSM           Global System for Mobile Communications
IAM          ItissalatAl-Maghrib (the incumbent telecommunications operator in Morocco)
ICT           Information and Communication Technologies
IDA           Interchange of Data between Administrations
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
IFC           International Finance Corporation
INPT          Institut Nationai des Posies et Telhicommimications
IIS           Information Infrastructure Sector
IISDL         Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IPO           Initial Public Offering
IT           Information Technology
MAD           Moroccan Dirhams
MSPP         Ministere du Secteur Public et de la Privatisation
OED           Operation Evaluation Department
ONCF          Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONE           Office National de l 'Electricite
ONPT          Office National des Postes et Telecommunications
PA            Public Administration
PBAX          Private Branche Automatic Exchange
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PTO           Public Telecommunications Operator
SEPTI        Secretariat d'Etat Charge de la Poste et des Nouvelles Technologies de lI 'nformation
TA            Technical Assistance
TPI-SAL       Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment Loan
UNCITRAL   United Nations Commission on International Trade Law
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VAS          Value-added Services
VSAT          Very Small Aperture Terminal
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:   Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:   Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader: Clemencia Tonres



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan Summiary
I. INTRODUCTION                                                         1
H. POLMCAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT                                         2
A    Political Context                                                  2
B.   Recent Economic Performance                                        2
C.   Economic Outlook Fimcncing Requirements, and Risks                 4
Ill. REFORM PROGRAM IN THE 1NFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR  5
A.   Government's Strategy                                              5
B.   Poverty Impact of the Reforms in the Information Infrastructure Sector  6
C.   Progress to Date                                                   6
D.   Reform Agenda                                                       7
E.   BankStrategy                                                       11
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                   12
A    Loan Rationale and Country Assistance Strategy                      12
B. Loan Objectives andActions to be taken prior to the Board            12
C.   Technical Assistance                                               13
D.   Fiscal Impact of the Reforms                                       14
E    Disbursement andAuditing                                           14
.   Cofinancing                                                         15
G.   EnvironmentalAspects                                               15
H.  Social Aspects: Program Objectives and Poverty Category             15
I    Monitorable Indicators                                             15
J    Benefits andRisks                                                   16
V. RECOMMENDATIONS                                                       17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
INFORMATION UNFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEXES
Annex I       Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex II      Matrix of Policy Objectives And Actions
Annex III     Key Information Infrastructure Program Milestones (2000 - 2002)
Annex IV      Key Sector Data: Information Infrastructure Sector Overview
Annex V       Monitorable Indicators
Annex VI      Fiscal Impact of the Reforms
Annex VII    Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex VIII   Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco: Operations Portfolio
Annex IX      Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Annex X       Morocco at a Glance
Annex XI      Map of Morocco
TEXT FIGURES AND TABLES
Table ll.1. Morocco - Financing Plan
Table 111.1. TPI-SAL Indicators
Table IV. 1. Monitorable Indicators
This report is based on the work of missions to Morocco during July 1999 to March 2001. The mission team
comprises: Clemencia Torres (Task Team Leader) (LCSFE, since October 2000); Pierre Guislain i(PSAEU),
Paolo Zacchia, Karim El Aynaoui, Amine Khene (MNSED); Carlo Maria Rossotto, JUrgen Lohmeyer, Isabelle
Andress, Catherine T. Doody (CITPO), Lorenzo Savorelli, Leila El-Hafi (MNSIF) and Bjorn Wellenius
(consulant). Maude Jean-Baptiste (MNSIF) contributed to the editing of the document. Nicole Wautiez de
Blaye translated the main document into French.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:         Government of the Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US$65 million equivalent, including a standard front-end fee of I per cent, to be
made available in a single tranche upon loan effectiveness.
Terms:            Fixed Spread loan in US$ with a commitment-linked schedule, and a 20 year final
maturity, including an 8 year grace period. Disbursement is expected to take place
upon effectiveness of the loan.
Objectives:       The proposed Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan (IISDL) is
designed to achieve three main objectives: (1) to support the Government's
program to deepen market liberalization, increase private participation, extend
services and strengthen the regulatory environment of the telecommunications
sector; (2) to assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of a
strategy for the use and development of information technologies; and (3) to
formulate a national strategy for the postal sector, including the financial services
provided through the postal network, which will serve as a basis for further specific
reforms.
Description:      The IISDL supports a wide range of actions in the telecommunications,
information technology and postal sectors, outlined in section IV.B, in Annex I
(Letter of Sector Development Policy) and in Annex II (matrix of policy objectives
and actions).
Benefits:         The development of a modern and diversified information infrastructure will have a
positive impact on private sector development and economic growth, thus
contributing to poverty reduction.  Extension of communication and postal
financial services to remote, mainly rural areas will improve the living standards of
the rural population thereby reducing the urban/rural gap.
Risks:            The main risks associated with the implementation of the Government program
include: (a) a possible slow down in the introduction of effective competition in the
telecommunications sector (fixed line voice services); (b) weak institutional
capacity to design and implement reforms, specially in the IT and postal sector; (c)
challenges to the regulatory agency's autonomy and its capacity to perform
efficiently, (d) delays in the elaboration and adoption of a new legal and regulatory
framework in the postal sector; and (e) insufficient coordination among ministries
for the development of IT-based initiatives.
Risk mitigation:.   The results already achieved by the Government, notably the successful
privatization and issuing of the second GSM license, which led to lower tariffs,
increased access to telecommunications and significant capital inflows, represent
the best protection against a possible po!icy setback. In addition, the Bank team
will maintain a continuous dialogue with all parties concerned. Furthermore, the
African Development Bank (AFDB) two-tranche operation will provide additional
leverage to monitor the implementation of subsequent reforms in 2001-02.



Poverty Category: The loan supports a program of targeted intervention aimed at facilitating the
access of poor peri-urban and rural areas to a modern means of information and
communication services, as well as to basic financial services provided through the
postal network.
ii



I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Morocco is at the forefront of the liberalization reforms in the telecommunications, postal and
information technology sectors in the MENA Region. The Government's program of market-oriented
policies and regulatory capacity building in telecommunications has transformed the sector in less than
three years. The introduction of competition in the mobile market was an unmitigated success. In a
single year, prices dropped four times, the number of mobile customers grew by over 2 million, capital
inflow surpassed US$1.3 billion and 20,000 new jobs were created. Private participation was introduced
in several market segments as the competent independent regulator, Agence Nationale de Reglementation
des T6lecommunications (ANRT) awarded several licenses to VSAT and GMPCS operators. In 1999, the
Bank supported this program through the Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector
Adjustment Loan (TPI-SAL), now fully disbursed.] Building on these achievements, Morocco recently
introduced a second phase of reforms aimed at bringing the benefits of the information and
communication revolution to a larger share of its population, in particular low income groups, and at
establishing the foundation for a knowledge-based economy. This program, supported by the proposed
IISDL, includes three components: (a) further liberalization of the telecommunications market and the
privatization of the incumbent operator through a transparent and competitive tender; (b) the
implementation of a strategy for broadening the use and access of information technologies; and (c) the
formulation of a national strategy for the postal sector, including postal financial services.
2.    The IISDL was originally designed in 1999, jointly with the AFDB, as a US$100 million two-
tranche operation. Balancing the Government request for further Bank support in a sector where its
performance has been very good with the overall fiscal triggers of the base case program being advocated
by the new CAS was a delicate question. It was decided to restructure the operation as a one-tranche
loan, to reduce its size, and to present it jointly with the CAS. This decision is predicated upon (i)
Morocco's substantial sector achievements underpinned by a strong policy dialogue with the Bank; (ii)
the new avenue for economic development that ICT offers in terms of growth, job creation and potential
to reduce exclusion by extending access to communication services to remote areas and low-income
groups at an affordable cost; and (iii) the quality benchmark and demonstration effect that the reform
program in the ICT sector has had throughout the MENA region and beyond. While the operation has
been redesigned as a single-tranche loan, it maintains its original purpose of supporting the reform
program of the Government in the IIS, as defined in the Sector Development Policy Letter of May 2001
(Annex II). The AFDB has maintained the two tranche structure and the original amount of its loan (US$
100 million equivalent), with a first set of actions and policies identical to those supported by the IISDL,
and a second tranche supporting actions and policies that are fully consistent with the overall Government
reform program agreed with the Bank. Finally, the proposed operation will enable the Bank to continue a
dialogue in the area of ICT applications, notably in postal modernization, and E-Government which is
expected to lead to the preparation of follow-up operations, consistent with the new CAS.
i The US$10 Imillion TPI-SAL was approved by the Board on May 12, 1999 (Reort No P-7265-MOR and SeM2000-734).
The second tranche of US$50 million was released on December 20,2000.



II. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A.    Political Context
3.    Morocco's political context has undergone a phase of extraordinary opening during the past three
years, with important potential effects on development policies. In September 1997, the Hlouse of
Representatives was elected by universal suffrage for the first time, as called for under the new
Constitution of 1996. Following the elections, late King Hassan II appointed Abderrahmane Youssoufi,
the leading opposition figure and a onetime exile, as Prime Minister in February 1998. Mr. Youssoufi
heads a Government backed by a seven-party center-left coalition, the Koutla, which holds 102 of the
lower chamber of parliament's 325 seats. This Government marks the first time in independent
Morocco's 42-year history that the historical opposition has had the opportunity to govern. Following a
limited reshuffle in September 2000, which inter alia brought a new secretary of state for p)ost and
information technologies and saw the absorption of the privatization ministry into the ministry of finance,
Mr. Youssoufi's Government is generally expected to remain in office until the next legislative cilections
in 2002.
4.    Political democratization and modernization have been gaining further momentum  since
Mohammed VI's accession to the throne in July 1999. The new King has strongly stressed social,
poverty, governance and gender issues in his speeches, as well as the need for 'a new concept of
authority' based on the rule of law, and on a public administration supporting development rather than
maintaining tight control on society. These are precisely the huge challenges the Government is f-acing in
its pursuit of policies aiming at strengthening economic growth and fostering social development while
maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework. In this context, foreign investment and the opening of
Morocco to information technologies will be crucial to a successful program of economic restruicturing,
liberalization and trade opening that should lend to faster growth, that would in turn reduce
unemployment, social disparities, and poverty.
5.    The Government's general economic and social program combines: (i) commitment to maintain a
stable macroeconomic framework, and current policies that ensure a satisfactory degree of short-term
macroeconomic stability, (ii) reforms to improve public sector performance and promote administrative
decentralization; (iii) economic and social reforms that have achieved clear progress on access to basic
social services, an acceleration of rural infrastructure development, and an active partnership of the
Government with civil society; and (iv) measures to harness the potential for private-sector-ledl growth
including the liberalization of the financial markets, reforms in the customs and tax administration,
establishment of commercial courts, adoption of competition laws, and introduction of private
participation  in  many  infrastructure  sectors.   The  liberalization  and  privatization  of the
telecommunications sector has brought a windfall of license and privatization revenues. The way the
Government uses these resources will, to a great extent, determine its future prospects. The services
sectors, however, such as tourism and information technologies, are emerging strengths, showing great
potential for diversifying Morocco's economic structure in the years ahead.
B.    Recent Economic Performance
6.    Starting in 1983, and triggered by external financing pressures, Morocco implemented a forceful
adjustment program that implemented deep structural reforms, cut the fiscal deficit, devalued the Dirham,
and liberalized trade. Growth was driven by a very good performance of agriculture, and by a
diversification of the country's exports, with a strong surge in manufacturing goods. Total exports
expanded at an impressive 15 percent per year in dollar terms over the period This performance enabled
2



Morocco to make encouraging progress towards poverty reduction, with the poverty incidence decreasing
from 21 to 13 percent of total population between 1984/85 and 1990/91.
7.     But, whereas GDP grew at an annual average rate of 4.4 percent during the second half of the
1980's, it dropped to well below 2% p.a. in the 1990's. This slower economic growth and the drought-
induced rising volatility translated into decreasing private consumption, and in turn into an increase in
poverty, that soared to 19% of total population in 1998/99. While the slowdown in economic growth was
partly driven, directly or indirectly, by the situation in agriculture, non-agriculture GDP growth also slowed
down: the trend of non-agriculture GDP growth was roughly 3 percent in the 1990's.
8.     Stabilization has remained a paramount objective of economic policy. It has been by and large
successful, and allowed Morocco to regain strong international credibility. As a result, in the 2nd half of
the 1990s, Morocco has kept inflation under 3 percent p.a. and the current account deficit at around 1
percent of GDP, and further reduced central Government external debt below 40 percent of GDP by the
end of 2000. However, despite the pursuit of a prudent fiscal policy, fiscal management remains more
constrained than suggested by the deficit figures that, until recently, remained in the range of about 3
percent of GDP.2  Consequently, the underlying fiscal problems have started to surface, and have
translated into much higher deficits in the 2000 and 2001 budget laws. In 2000 (annualized), the budget
deficit is estimated to have reached a record level of 6.4 percent of GDP. Due to the delay in the
privatization of IAM Telecom, the debt creating deficit increased from less than 1 percent of GDP in
1999/00 to 6.4 percent in 2000.
9.     Structural reforms have continued to be implemented but with less momentum than in the late
1980s. Private participation in infrastructure has been promoted much more forcefully and recently,
privatization picked up remarkably with the partial sale of IAM. However, a recent private sector survey
suggests that administrative procedures remain the main constraint impeding business development. The
unfinished agenda of structural reforms remains in any case substantial. There remains an important
portfolio of public participation in 700-odd enterprises, and very large public groups or conglomerates.
Trade liberalization has clearly lost pace since the turn of the 1990s, with protection typically remaining
at 30-35% for one-third of non-agricultural imports. It was recently revived through the Association
Agreement with the EU, now in force, and the conclusion of several international trade treaties with other
Arab countries.
10.    In the balance of payments, the current account deficit improved to 0.4 percent of GDP in 1998
(from 1.7 percent in 1996), reflecting faster growth in phosphate and re-exports, and slower growth in
imports. Despite slow exports growth and an acceleration of imports, the current account deficit
remained well below 1 percent of GDP in 1999. Morocco's external position has remained sound in 2000,
despite a significant deterioration in the trade balance mainly driven by unfavorable terms of trade
developments resulting from rising oil prices, subdued export performance, and the growing structural
effect on imports of the tariff reduction under the partnership agreement with the EU. As a result, and
despite substantial tourism receipts and migrant transfers, the current account deficit is estimated to have
grown to 2.5% of GDP in 2000. In the meantime, external financing needs were eased by lower long-
term debt amortization and the use of external reserves, which remain however at a conformable level
after an all time high in 1999.
2The last two budgets relied heavily on one-time measures, such as exceptional 'dividends' imposed on public enterprises; lump sums paid by
private enterprises as part of a tax amnesty scheme; and the sale of State assets. The INF has estimated the 'structural' deficit at 4.8 percent of
GDP for FYOO, and 5.5 per:ent for the curent fiscal year.
3



C.    Economic Outlook, Financing Requirements, and Risks
11.    Following the two consecutive years of drought, characterized by almost no grov,th, the
Moroccan economy is expected to expand by 8 percent in 2001, mainly reflecting a rebound in agriculture
production, a slight increase in non-agriculture GDP and strong recovery in key services sectors, such as
tourism. Non agricultural GDP is foreseen to increase moderately from 3.5 percent in 1999, to 3.9
percent, mainly reflecting the impact of the fiscal impulse and the 5 percent adjustment of the exchange
rate. At the sector level, the expansion rebound in the tourism, communication, and construction sectors
is expected to continue. The current account deficit, fuelled to 1.6 percent of GDP in 2000 by the (irought,
higher oil prices, and subdued export performance, would remain at this level in 2001, mainly clue to a
higher fiscal deficit.
12.    The 2001 budget law plans a deficit of 8.4 percent of GDP. However, thanks to the privatization
of IAM, for an amount of DH23.3 billions, or 5.4% of GDP, non-debt creating deficit should be set at 3
percent. While the debt-creating fiscal deficit remains manageable, and despite a track record of strict
budgetary execution in the last three years, the new budget confirmed the serious deterioration- in the
structure of public expenditures started in 2000: it results in a very low level of government savings that
could, in the medium-term, represent a threat to fiscal sustainability.
13.   In the medium term, it is projected that, barring any significant modification of the macro
framework, trend GDP growth would not increase much, and average around 3.5 percent from 2002 tom
2004. A detailed account of medium-term prospects is provided in the 2001 CAS document.
14.   Risks. The reliance on exceptional revenues (exceptional tax amnesty in 1998/99, GSM license
receipts in 1999/2000, privatization of IAM in 2001) to finance increased deficits is not sustainable in the
medium term. On the macroeconomic side, the situation should remain manageable in 2001. However,
with this fiscal policy, the country's exposition to exogenous shocks, such as further increases in oil
prices, a surge in international interest rates, is higher. In the medium term, a pursuit of the current policy
could lead to instability by stimulating inflation, eroding further the external competitiveness and lead to
an increased current account deficit.
15.    Major exogenous risks on Morocco's growth performance and external position include: (i)
vulnerability to consecutive severe droughts and related volatility of output; (ii) contingent liabilities; and
(iii) external shocks, such as a hike in international interest rates, fast deterioration of terms of trade, and
an important dependency on EU economic performances. Also, the fact that the Hassan II Fund is now
entitled to receive half of all privatization receipts constitutes an important reduction in the margin of
maneuver of the fiscal policy, and a potential source of higher expenditures with weak Parliament control.
On the whole, the Government has the capacity to ensure base line fiscal sustainability but it would be
damageable if the adjustment is again realized by cutting drastically public investment.
16.    Financing requirements and Bank support. The current account deficit is predicted to improve
slightly from its projected 2001 level, -1.5 percent of GDP, to around -1 percent in the medium term.
Tourism receipts would be sustained and workers remittances would grow moderately. The current
account deficit would remain manageable thanks to substantial net foreign capital inflows - around 2
percent of GDP p.a. - resulting from privatization operations and foreign direct investment. In addition,
important concessional funding from the EU is expected as the MEDA program is projected to improve
its disbursement ratios. Morocco's financing needs would also be driven by external debt repayments
increasing from around US$2 billion to US$2.8 billion between 2000 and 2003, especially as rescheduled
London Club private debt comes on stream in the next few years. Total external debt outstanding would
as a result decrease further by 2003 to reach 46 percent of GDP. In the context of the CAS, the
4



Government and the Bank have drafted a medium term financing plan which projects IBRD commitments
of the order of 250m US$ per year in the base case.
Table 11.1: Morocco - Financing Plan (Mln US$)
:~ ~~~~~~~~~  _
Financing Requirement            2263   2763   2152   3766   2552   4937   2866   3129   3284
Current Account (excl. grants)     35    -87   -144   -156   -548   -537    418   -409   432
Debt Servicea                  3352   3190   2782   3047   3534   3614   3496   3656   3344
Amortization                  2006   2123   1761   1971   2413   2541   2480   2706   2440
Interest                      1346   1068   1021   1076   1121   1073   1016    949    905
Reserve Build_Upb               292    553    247   1638   -409   1858    -32        13    413
Financing Sources                2263   2763   2152   3766   2552   4937   2866   3129   3284
FDI and Portfolio Capital       469   1108    337    846    113   2647   1000   1000   1000
Medium and Long Term Loans    1757   1313   1586   2541   2290   2199   1766   2057   2178
a. Multilateral                797    568    641    781    594    776    717    738    789
b. Bilateral                   532    283    214    243    575    558    497    552    493
c. Private Guaranteed          337    187    393    432    892    595    437    547    501
d. Private Non-Guaranteed       91    275    338   1085    230    270    115    220    395
Official Capital Grants           0       0      0      0      50      0      0       0      0
Other Capitalc                   38    342    228    380       99     91    100      73    106
a. Includes IMF interest payments
b. Includes IMF credit purchases and repurchases
c. Mostly net short term capital, changes in assets holdings of commercial banks and private citizens
III. REFORM PROGRAM IN THE INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
A.     Government's Strategy
17.    Developing a high-performance information infrastructure sector (IIS) is a centerpiece of the
Government's economic and social agenda. A modern IIS will make a major contribution to accelerating
economic growth and reducing social disparities. It will enhance the competitiveness of Moroccan
enterprises, bring them closer to international markets, and facilitate the integration of the country in a
global information-based economy. A modern and extended IIS will also bring additional benefits to the
society as a whole through a more efficient provision of social services like education and health and
through the modernization of the public administration. Additionally, the modernization of the postal
sector will lead to a more efficient provision of some basic financial services, taking advantage of an
extended postal network that reaches many marginal and remote areas without access to other forms of
banking services.
18.    The Government has adopted an integrated approach to telecommunications, postal and IT
reforms. Such a comprehensive approach is necessary, as the convergence of technologies used by the
three sectors is increasingly blurring traditional boundaries among them, and businesses often demand
integrated solutions to their communication, information and delivery needs. As detailed below, the sharp
5



decline in the cost of these technologies represents not only an opportunity for accelerated growth and job
creation but also for reaching out to lower income populations in remote areas and extending
communication services at an affordable cost. In sum, in terms of creating opportunities, reducing the
cost of exclusion borne by the poor and improving access to government and public services, ICT offers a
whole new avenue for economic development with particular relevance to the poor.
B.    Poverty Impact of the Reforms in the Information Infrastructure Sector
19.    Growth and job creation. IIS reforms are expected to foster growth and employment creation, a
key contribution to poverty reduction. As an example, with the introduction of competition in the m-nobile
market, the total of IAM's GSM subscribers jump from 116,600 in 1998 to over 2.4 million by end
December 2000. There has been around 6,200 new direct and indirect jobs created since 2000 in the
telecommunications sector.3
20.    Development of sustainable business opportwities in remote areas, through increased access to
communication, information and delivery services. IIS reforms facilitate the extension of telecommun.ication
and postal services to the poor, especially in rural areas. The liberalization of all segments of the
telecommunications market can also lower the cost of doing business in remote areas. This, in turn
facilitates information and retail opportunities for farmers and artisans in more remote areas. The Virtual
Souk, launched in 1998 as a collaborative effort between the World Bank Institute and local commnunity
associations in various MENA countries, is an example of the potential that the internet offers to small
businesses and micro entrepreneurs from isolated areas. 4
21.    Contribution to other sectors of the economy. The Government intends to promote the sectoral
applications of ICT. Expanding the use of computers in schools through a country wide program is a
priority outlined in the Government's strategy for the development of the IT sector. The Government will
promote the provision of basic financial services to populations without access to any other b;mking
services, taking advantage of an extended postal network that reaches many poor urban and ruraml areas
throughout the country.
C.    Progress to Date
22.    Telecommunications, information technologies and postal activities are emerging as a modern
and vibrant sector of the Moroccan economy. A description of the sectors' performance and of the most
recent developments is presented in Annex IV. In 1999-2000, the Government implemented an ambitious
reform program supported by the Bank with the TPI-SAL. This program focused on (i) fostering
competition in the telecommunication sector; (ii) establishing the legal and regulatory foundation of
competitive telecommunication markets; and (iii) laying groundwork for development of the information
technology (IT) and postal sectors. As shown below in Table 111. 1, most of the indicators agreed at the
time of TPI-SAL have been met. The Government, and in particular ANRT, have been widely praised for
the openness and transparency of the bidding process for the second GSM license. These were important
factors in explaining the success of introducing competition in wireless as shown by the price of the
3 Medi Telecom, the operator of the second GSM license began operations on March 29, 2000 employing 2:30 and
generating indirect employment for about 2000 people. Atento, a subsidiary of Telefonica de Espana, has opened
their first call center in Casablanca which is expected to generate over 4000 direct and indirect jobs by the end of the
year 2001.
4 This intemet site gives poor artisans, often illiterate women, of Morocco, Tunisia, Lebanon and Egypt, the oppornity to show
and sell their handicrafts on the Web ( http://www.elsouk.comi/elsouk.htm).
6



license - US$ 1.1 billion and by the unprecedented subscriber growth that followed competition.5 As a
result of the Government' sound performance, the second tranche of TPI-SAL was disbursed in
December, 2000.
Table 111.1  TPI-SAL Indicators
Indicator         Measure                     1998            1999                  2000
Actual    Planned     Actual   Planned      Actual
Market share of    Revenue Share (%/o)      0         10          0         22          30
the new operator in
the cellular market
Number of fixed    Number of lines          690       747         860       804         906
lines outside 2   (000)
main cities                          _              _
Fault Rate        No. of faults per 100 lines    42   35          37        30          24.5
per year
Suppliers of      No. of suppliers of leased  I       At least 3    1       At least 4    4
Leased Lines     lines
D.   Reform Agenda
23.    In a second phase of its reform program, which the proposed IISD loan supports, the Government
intends to: (i) deepen the pro-competitive reforms, including privatization, in the telecommunications
sector; (ii) bring the benefits of the information and communications revolution to lower income groups,
in particular in rural areas, by redefining its universal service policies in both the telecommunications and
postal sectors; and (iii) establish the legal foundation of an information society. The Government has
spelled out its reform agenda with respect to telecommunications, post and IT in its Letter of Sector
Development Policy (Annex I). The main components of this program are detailed below.
1. Telecommunications
24.    Privatization of Itissalat Al Maghrib  (Maroc Telecom)   As part of its overall sector
liberalization program, the Government decided to transfer 35 per cent of the capital, as well as a majority
on the management board (directoire), of historical operator Itissalat Al Maghrib (IAM) to a strategic
private investor, following an international competitive bidding process. The arrival of the strategic
partner in February 2001 provides IAM with the financial and managerial resources needed to face
increasing competition in its domestic market and to expand in other markets. 6IAM's regional ambitions
have been expressed through its recent acquisition of a majority stake in Mauritel, the Mauritanian
incumbent operator.
5 See Wellenius B. and Rossotto C-M.: "Introducing Telecommunications Competition through a Wireless License: Lessons
from Morocco" ViewPoint N. 199, November 1999. The World Bank Group, Wasing    D.C.
6 After an expression of interest phase lastng about 6 months, the formal tender was launched in October 2000 with a bidding
deadline of December 20, 2000. The Govemment had set a minimum price of 20 billion DH . Vivendi Universal, the buyer,
paid 15% above this price, or US$2.1 billion. Financial closure took place on February 20, 2001. The strategic partner controls
the management board, and the government the supervisory board All major decisions require agreement of both.
7



25.    Following the strategic sale, the Government will continue to lower its ownership in IAM. In
consultation with the strategic investor, it will offer shares to IAM's employees and retirees. In addition,
to favor wider spread ownership and to attract additional capital, the Government intends to sell an
additional 15% to 20% of IAM's capital through an initial public offering (IPO). The IPO will probably
be launched in 2002, depending on market conditions, on the Casablanca stock market and on an
international exchange.
26.   Deepening competition in telecommunications infrastructure and services. The Government
has adopted a timetable to grant new licenses for networks and services to accelerate liberalization. The
new licenses will include fixed telephony licenses (local access licenses especially in large metropolitan
areas, as well as a second national license) to be launched in 2001. In a first phase (up to end-2002), the
new fixed license-holders would not be allowed to provide public telephony services (i.e. public voice to
end customers), but would provide data, Internet, leased lines, private network and other services. The
licensees will be required to deploy broadband networks enabling fast Internet access and multimedia
applications, which should set the stage for a major growth in the use and application of these new
technologies. From January 2003 on, the prohibition of these new operators to provide voice serv ices to
end-users would terminate and they would thus become full-fledged competitors to L&M in their
respective market segments. Additionally, starting January 1, 2002, the second GSM operator will launch
an international services for its own customers, introducing competition in this segment for the first time.
This trend will be reinforced with the award of additional international licenses in 2002.
27.    To promote the introduction of competition, the Government is taking measures (including
legislative) to facilitate the use of "alternative infrastructures": other utility and transport companies (such
as the power, water, railways or highways companies and authorities) will in this way be encouraged to
make their networks and rights of way available to new telecommunications operators, hence reducing the
cost and lead time needed for infrastructure roll-out.
28.    Extending access to telecommunication services in poor and rural areas: The Government
has set objectives to increase rural teledensity from 0.6% in 2000 to 7% in 2012, and to have at least one
payphone per 250 inhabitants by 2005. Additionally, the Government will present to Parliament a draft
law to expand the definition of universal service to include telecommunications and information services
in general, rather than telephony only. The Government considers that telecommunications liberalization
is the most effective tool to achieve increased access to services. The award of the second GSM license
demonstrates the effectiveness of this approach. In two years, due to rapid expansion of the GSM
network, the percentage of the population without access to telephone service has decreased from; about
25% to 10%.
29.    The Government expects that competition among private operators will achieve most of its
universal access objectives. Nonetheless, some gaps will remain and to address these GOM has taken the
following steps. First, prior to privatization, IAM's license conditions were modified to include
obligations to maintain existing services in all covered areas and to extend services to 700 additional rural
villages. In return, IAM is temporarily exempted from the levy on turnover which other licensed
operators have to pay. From 2003, IAM may also seek authorization from ANRT to end rural pavphone
services and subject these to the prevailing rules for universal service support. Second, a decree is being
drafted defining a new universal service regime, under which operators will contribute initially 4% of
turnover to a universal service fund. This percentage is set to decline over time, as access to services
reaches Government targets. This fund will be used to provide limited investment subsidies to com panies
(including IAM if interested) bidding for universal service licenses.
30.    Strengthening the telecommunications legal and regulatory environment. ANRT has been a
pioneer in Morocco (and the region) in making extensive use of the Internet and meetings to consult with
8



industry and other parties and to disclose its policies and decisions. ANRT is committed to expand this
consultation process and adopt more systematic procedures for public consultations and records on
important decisions of the Agency. New staff rules were adopted by ANRT in 2000, strengthening the
ability of the agency to hire and retain qualified staff and providing a code of ethics. Parliament is in the
process of approving a proposed amendment to the telecommunications law (Law 24-96) that would
remove the a priori financial controls on ANRT and replace them with a posteriori controls. Moreover,
the Government intends to submit to Parliament additional amendments in order to strengthen ANRT's
powers and effectiveness in dealing with operators. Under the proposed amendments, ANRT would be
able to impose a wide range of sanctions (including financial penalties) for non-compliance, in addition to
suspension of the license.
31.   To strengthen the financial autonomy and accountability of ANRT, the Government intends to
review by March 2002 the sources of funding of the agency and adjust regulatory fees to bring them more
in line with the cost of regulation. The financial review of ANRT will be preceded by an evaluation of
the economic value of the spectrum, as well as an assessment of the appropriate mechanism for spectrum
allocation, the level of spectrum fees and the distribution of revenues between spectrum management and
regulation fees accruing to ANRT, and spectrum scarcity fees accruing to the Treasury.
2. Information Technology
32.   The Government's Program in Information Technology development is focused on three main
areas: (1) development of an enabling environment for information and communications based industries,
including electronic commerce; (2) establishment of inter-administration networks; and (3) promotion of
ICT applications.
33.   Development of an enabling environment for information and communication based
industries, including electronic commerce. The Government program of reforms in this area addresses
two critical factors of a dynamic IT sector: an adequate legal and regulatory framework for e-commerce,
and a low cost and modern broadband information and communications network. To this end, an inter-
agency commission7, created in June 1999 has prepared a draft Law on data transmission, which
addresses various issues, including the recognition of electronic signature, and incorporates the principles
of the UNCITRAL Model Law in the areas of electronic commerce. Further activities in this area include
the elaboration of other draft laws addressing, inter alia, certification of electronic transactions,
cryptography, privacy, technology neutrality, and consumer protection in the field of electronic media.
These additional legal initiatives will complement and integrate the draft Law on data transmission and
constitute a coherent and reliable legal framework for electronic commerce in Morocco.
34.   Establish inter-administration networks. A second key area of the IT Strategy for Morocco, is
the introduction of IT to reform and modernize the Moroccan public administration. The importance of
improving the performance of the Public Administration is reflected in the National Strategy for the IT
sector, which includes the implementation of the administration on line initiative (AoL) as one of the
priority areas for policy actions in the sector. The AoL initiative aims to gradually develop a government-
wide information system, connect different ministries at central and local level, and establish common
interoperable procedures. This is expected to streamline administrative procedures, reduce the cost of the
public administration and benefit citizens and enterprises. In addition, this infrastructure will allow the
7 This iter-agency commisson, involves SEPTJ, ANRT, Mnistner du Comierce et de l'hndustrie, Minist6re des Finances (in
particular, Customs), MNnistere de la Justice, Ministre des Transjrts, BAM and private banks.
9



development of e-government applications and improve services to the public. In terms of implem,ntation
of the AoL initiative, the Government has: (a) started to identify key administrative procedures wh ich will
most benefit from the implementation of the AoL initiative; and (b) developed a legal framework for the
official recognition of administrative documents in electronic fornat. The next step of the iritiative,
expected in November-December 2001, will be the launching of a pilot project focused on the Integrated
Management of the Government's Human Resources (Gestion Integee du Personnel de l'Etat - GIl'E).
35.    Promote the development of ICT-related applications through public-private partnerships.
As a first step in developing high-end ICT applications, the Government has created a cyber park near
Casablanca and is planning a second park in Bouznika. The parks will host incubators for new ICT
enterprises and SMEs. An info)Dex grant is funding a feasibility analysis for the creation of these
incubators. Second, the Government has also signed a contract with two enterprises to dev-.lop e-
commerce portals for the benefit of economic co-operatives (groups of local artisans, craftsman, ilrmers,
etc.). These electronic portals are ready, certified and in operation as of April 2001. To promote their use
among cooperatives, the Government has launched a program of ICT-education for cooperative managers
and a communications campaign to increase awareness, amongst cooperatives, of the benefits of using e-
commerce. Additionally, as part as its long term development strategy for the ICT sector, the Government
also intends to promote the developmnent of community-based telecenters, including the provision of
internet access.
3. Postal Sector
36.    Elaboration of a development strategy. The objectives of the Government are fourfold: (I) to
provide a postal universal service in line with international standards; (2) to gradually open the postal
service to competition and increased private participation; (3) to strengthen the historical postal operator,
notably through its corporatization, as a credible competitor in a liberalized environment; and (4) to
increase rural savings mobilization and to allow greater management autonomy of the postal financial
services. As in telecommunicationis, a central goal of the strategy is to ensure the provision of adequate
and affordable postal and financial services provided through the postal network, in poor urban and rural
areas. SEPTI has several studies underway which will provide the basis for the design of a national
strategy for the development of the postal sector, including proposals on universal service and market
liberalization.
37.    Modernizing the main postal operator.   To remain competitive in a market-oriented
environment which includes universal service obligations, the postal operator has completed, mxith the
assistance of external consultants, an action plan for business development and internal restructuring.
Increased use of telecommunication services and IT applications play a critical role in this plan to
enhance the internal efficiency ( infor.m-ation systems) and to improve the quality of postal services (value-
added services).
38.    Developing the financial services provided through the postal network. The Ministry of
Finance will launch a study, in collaboration with BAM and SEPTI, to identify actions aimed at (1)
ensuring the access to financial instruments for a broader range of consumers, without undue distortions
to fair competition with the banking and financial system; (2) allowing the historical postal operator to
diversify its revenue sources ir, a context of postal sector liberalization, and (3) increasing savings
mobilization and improving the allocation of resources towards productive activities.
10



E.     Bank Group Strategy
39.    Current Involvement. The Bank has been involved in Morocco's telecommunications sector
since the 1980s, initially through two investment projects, which focussed on the development of the
network and the strengthening of the historical operator. Both operations were implemented successfully.
The first was rated satisfactory by OED and the second highly satisfactory. 8
40.    From 1993 to 1998, the Bank focussed on assisting the Government in developing a sound
institutional and legal framework for opening the telecommunications sector to broad competition. The
main instruments used included: (a) the implementation of the 1993 Telecommunications Sector
Restructuring Project; (b) several pieces of economic and sector work presentation;9 (c) the award of an
IDF grant for the preparation of telecommunications privatization; and (d) the implementation of the 1999
TPI-SAL. Since 1999, the Bank has supported the implementation of the Government program of
reforms in the sector through the TPI-SAL (paragraph 22) and the IISDL (paragraph 23).
41.   In 2000, the IFC played a critical role helping MediTelecom, the winning consortium for the
second GSM license, put together a long term financing package, given the limited availability in the
capital markets of sufficient financing with the necessary terms and long term tenor and without
multilateral involvement. The total cost of the project was Euro $ 1.1 billion, and the value of the IFC
package was Euro $450 million, of which 75 million in Loans A, 25 million in Loans C and 350 million
in Loans B. As in the case of the second GSM, the use of IFC's instruments to support operators
interested in bidding for the new licenses could also contribute to foster private participation in the sector.
The same is true for the development of IT-related industries, or in joint private-public ventures in the
postal sector, where IFC could consider contributing to the funding of the investments.
42.    Future involvement. The Government has identified the following priorities for the IT sector:
(i) enhance the business and competitive environment for firms in the ICT sector; (ii) develop technology
parks; and (iii) implement the "Administration on Line initiative". Building on past achievements, some
of these initiatives could be supported by the Bank Group.
43.   In the postal sector, the SEPTI expressed interest in continuing collaboration with the Bank to
implement the strategy to be agreed following the completion of the on-going study. BAM has as well
expressed interest in an investment project focused on IT development and universal access. More
precisely, BAM intends to develop an e-commerce platform including: on-line tariffs, secured payments,
third party certification, an efficient logistical network through which parcels would be delivered and
investments in the rural areas.
44.    Coordination with development partners. The Bank prepared the IISDL jointly with the
African Development Bank, continuing the collaboration initiated with the TPI-SAL. The AFDB
operation, which was approved on April 4, 2001, includes a second tranche which will provide additional
leverage to monitor the impact of the reforms supported by the one-tranche IISDL and the
implementation of additional reforms in 2001-02. Special efforts have been made to coordinate the
preparation of the proposed loan with the European Commission, as there are strong complementarities
between the EC's ongoing technical assistance to ANRT and several of the policy actions supported in the
See OED Evaluative Memrandum L2798-MOR (1995) and OED Evaluation Summary L3557-MOR (1998).
9Kingdom of Morocco, Preparinfor the 21st Cenzey - S&egtlinZgthe Private Sector in Morocco, Report  11894-MOR, World Bank June
1994; Royawne du Maroc, Participation d secteur prive dans les infrastructures, Eh4cks &conomiques & la Banque mondiale sur le Moyen
Orient et I'Afrique du Nord World Bang 1997; Kingdom of Morocco, Private Sector Assessment Update, Fudflling the Promise of Private
Sector-led Growh Report 17950-MOR, World Bank, December 1999.
11



proposed loan to strengthen the regulatory environment in the telecommunication sector (See section
IVC). The Japanese authorities approved a PHRD grant which was used for preparation of the operation.
Finally, the proposed IISDL also converges with the program that USAID has launched in Morocco for
the development of e-commerce.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Rationale and Country Assistance Strategy
45.   The present one-tranche operation is at the juncture of the 1997 and 2001 CAS. The suistained
dialogue during the preparation of the operation supported the complex process that led to the recent
privatization of the main operator, and related reforms. This is fully part of the 1997 CAS (R97-2 Board
discussion date January 30, 1997) that sought enhanced private sector participation in infrastructure, and
broader private sector development. On the other hand, by setting the stage for downstream and retail
development of IT-based services, the reforms set forth in the operation will provide the necessary
underpinning to the 2001 CAS objectives of supporting a decentralized and participatory approach to
fight poverty and exclusion. In particular, this operation would lead towards improving the living
standards of rural populations by expanding access to a broad range of information infrastructure services.
Although concerns over fiscal management have led to link Bank policy based lending to,) strict
macroeconomic triggers under the 2001 CAS, the present operation is justified by the strong track record
and excellent dialogue in the sector, and by the possibility of Bank Group follow-up investment
operations. Morocco's macro economic framework also remains stable and financing requirements
remain important (paragraph 46). The 2001 CAS recognizes the development of IT based-services as one
of the main business lines of Bank support over the next three years, and both the Bank and IFC plan to
support investment operations in the sector, which can have an important cross-sectoral impact for
decentralized economic opportunities, diffusion of basic services, employment and growth.
46.   The macroeconomic rationale for a quick disbursing loan operation follows from the overall
financing plan of Morocco's balance of payments as presented in section II.C. With limited access to
international capital markets, Morocco relies on both bilateral and multilateral donors to ensure a stable
financing of its external requirements. This is important, as Morocco's external position is still vulnerable
to shocks originating from changes in oil and phosphates prices, and from changes in market conditions
for emerging countries. In this respect, allowing Morocco's international reserves to remain above 5
months of imports, while continuing to reduce external debt, is a positive trend that the loan would
support.
B. Loan Objectives and Actions to be taken prior to the Board
47.   The overall objective of this proposed single-tranche US$65 million IISDL is to support the
Government's new phase of reforms in the IIS. As detailed in Part III, this program has three main
components: (i) deepen market liberalization, increase private participation, extend services and
strengthen the regulatory environment of the telecommunications sector; (ii) formulate and implement an
ambitious strategy for the development of IT; and (iii) formulate a national strategy for the postal sector.
The Government is showing a strong public commitment to this reform program and has agreed to widely
disseminate its reform program for the development of the Information Infrastructure Sector.
12



48.   Prior to the Board, the Govermnent has carried out a series of actions summarized below and
presented in further detail in Annex I.
In the telecommunications sector:
*  Transfer of 35% of IAM's capital to a strategic partner, including signature of: the decree
containing IAM's license (Cahier des charges de l'operateur), reflecting the Government's
sector strategy; the shareholders' agreement, ensuring transfer of IAM's management control to
a strategic partner; and the decree transferring 35% of IAM's capital to a strategic partner.
*  Definition of universal service obligations included in IAM's license (Cahier des Charges)
* Adoption by the Conseil dA'dministration de l'ANRT of the Agency's plan to award licenses
in different segments of the telecommunications market during 2000-2002
*  Award of a GMPCS license, including voice services, through a competitive bidding process.
*  Preparation by ANRT of a draft decree defining the new regime for the provision of universal
services.
*  Adoption by ANRT's Board and effective implementation of a new Statute of Personnel,
including a professional ethics code.
*  Adoption by the Council of Government of an amendment to Law 24-96, replacing a priori by a
posteriori financial control of ANRT.
In the information technology sector:
* Elaboration by the Inter-ministerial Committee on Electronic Commerce of a draft Law on data
transmission, including principles on recognition of electronic signature and its certification.
In the Postal Sector:
*  Preparation by SEPTI of a national strategy for the development of the postal sector in
consultation with the Bank.
a  Finalization of the terms of reference by an inter-agency committee (headed by the Treasury in
collaboration with BAM and SEPTI) for a study to present several scenarios for the
development of postal financial services.
49. Prior to the effectiveness of the loan, the Government will have undertaken the following action:
Adoption by the Council of Government of several amendments to the Telecommunications
Law to, inter alia: (a) broaden the definition of universal service; (b) authorize ANRT to
impose financial and administrative sanctions proportionate to the violations; and (c)
facilitate the availability of alternative infrastructures to potential suppliers of these
infrastructures and to telecommunications operators.
C.    Technical Assistance
50.   Various technical assistance initiatives are currently underway or will be launched shortly to
facilitate the implementation of the above reforms and ensure their sustainability. They include:
* Assistance of an external consultant to ANRT to define a position on competition policy that has been
reflected in LAM's license. (funded by ANRT).
*  Launching oftwo studies on international experience regarding the impact of accelerated liberalization on
the fiscal flows to the Treasury and on the progress towards universal service. (Funded by PPLAF)
*  Long-term (2001-2004) assistance to ANRT by the EU, to be launched in September 2001.
*  Study on new universal service regime for ANRT on own fnancing, completed in Febraty 2001.
* Assistance to ANRT on design and launch of new licenses, started in February 2001 on own financing.
13



* Assistance of an external legal expert to the inter-ministerial commission led by SEPTI, to draft the Law
on data transmission (funded by Belgian and Danish CTFs).
*  Assistance to the SEPTI to develop an action plan for implementation of its national strategy on the
information society (funded by PHRD grant).
* Assistance to the SEPTI for the elaboration of a postal sector strategy, including postal financial sevices.
D.    Fiscal Impact of the Reforms
51.   The net fiscal impact of the reforms is expected to be largely positive, as the revenues :rrom a
partial sale of IAM are substantial, and additional tax revenues will be paid by new competitors ertering
the liberalized market. (See Annex VI). A fiscal cost can be expected in the short run due to: (i) phasing
out of the monopoly tax for telecommunications services; (ii) transaction costs of privatizing IAM, and
(iii) investment needed for the establishment of inter-administration networks (Administration on line
initiative). These costs will be more than compensated by the privatization proceeds of IAM, and in the
medium term by: (i) higher tax revenues, both from IAM and from new operators, due to overall mnarket
enlargement; (ii) contribution from all licensed telecommunication operators of 5 percent of re,enues
(decreasing over time) to fund universal service and R&D; and (iii) additional license proceeds fronm data,
VSAT and GMPCS providers and new network operators.
E.    Disbursement and Auditing
52.    Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures approved by the Board on
February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Central Bank of Morocco. Upon
effectiveness, proceeds will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the Borrower. If
the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either
(i) return that amount to the account to use for eligible purposes, or (ii) refund the amount directly to the
Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. Although a
routine audit of the deposit account is not automatically required, the World Bank reserves the right to
require it. The closing date for the IISDL is December 31, 2001.
53.    During negotiations, discussions with the borrower took place about specific measures that will
help IBRD to track the flow of funds from the Central Bank of Morocco to the borrower's budgetary
accounts, so as to ensure that these funds are used for legitimate purposes and that withdrawals made
from the account are used for purposes acceptable to the Bank. To achieve this objective, the following
procedures will be established:
a) the borrower will open and maintain a dedicated Deposit Account in the Central Banlk of
Morocco to receive the proceeds of the adjustment credit;
b)  the borrower will report the exact sum received into the Deposit account;
c) the borrower will indicate to the Bank details of the Government Bank account to which the
local currency equivalent of the loan proceeds will be credited. This account will be subject to
budget control;
d)  the borrower will ensure that all withdrawals from the deposit account are for budgeted
expenditures, and not for purposes such as military expenditures or for other items cn the
Bank's negative list;
e)  the borrower will report to the Bank the equivalent in the local currency of the US$ amount
withdrawn from the Deposit Account producing evidence that the local currency sum was paid
into a treasury account used to fund budgetary expenditures;
14



f)  the borrower will submit regular reports on receipts and disbursements from the dedicated
Deposit Account to enable the Bank to review the consistency of these withdrawals with the
Loan agreement and the objectives of the adjustment operation;
g)  the borrower will provide the Bank with information regarding the Terms of Reference for
carrying out and timing of regular audits, and will provide auditors with access to the
necessary officials and staff for carrying out this audit.
F.    Cofinancing
54.   The African Development Bank (AFDB) is cofinancing the IISDL with a US$100 million two
tranche loan which was approved on April 4, 2001. Disbursement of the first tranche is predicated upon
the adoption of the same measures as the single tranche IISDL. AFDB participated jointly with the Bank
in the preparation and evaluation missions of the project.
G.    Environmental Aspects
55.   The IISDL is an environmental category C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
The proposed policy reforms will not have a negative impact on the environment and the proposed project
will not finance any investments derived from these policy reforms.
H.    Social Aspects: Program Objectives and Poverty Category
56.   The proposed loan contributes to the overall development objectives of the Government for
sustainable growth, employment generation and reduced social disparities in several ways. First, the
reforms will enhance the competitiveness of private firms, and actively promote growth and new job
opportunities in the IIS sector and in the economy in general. Second, they will facilitate the extension of
telecommunication, postal and basic financial services to the poor, especially in the rural areas. This, in
turn, can contribute to a reduction in rural-urban disparities, because it facilitates the development of
sustainable business opportunities in remote areas. Third, the policy and actions supported by the IISDL
should provide the foundations for using new means of communication and information in sectors with a
strong social and economic impact such as health and education. The actual realization of this potential,
however, extends beyond the time horizon of the IISDL, and could be further supported in the context of
future Bank Group operations. (See CAS and section III.E.). Finally, no significant lays-off are to be
expected as a result of IAM's privatization, because the company was a relatively well run company
already under public ownership and did not suffer significant over-staffing problems. Adequate severance
packages will be provided in the case of eventual lays-off, which will mainly target early retirees. In sum,
as a sector reform loan, the proposed IISDL project does not entail any direct or indirect compliance
issues with respect to the social safeguard policies of the Bank.
I.    Monitorable Indicators
57.   To monitor the impact of the reform program and agree, if needed, on corrective measures, a set
of indicators have been identified by the Bank team and agreed upon with the Government during the
negotiations of the loan. These indicators will be jointly monitored by the Government and the Bank.
They are designed to help monitor the evolution over the next three years of the structure of the
telecommunications, IT and postal sectors, the efficiency of new investments in the sector, as well as the
quality, price, and coverage of services. The set of proposed monitorable indicators are summarized in
Table IV. 1 below, and detailed in Annex V.
15



Table IV.1: Monitorable Indicators
Indicator              Measure              1999      2000      2001      2002       2003
Internet Users       Number of dial up and     80,000    200,000   400,000   700,000   1,000,000
dedicated lines customers
Percentage of the  Percentage of the population  75%      90%       92%       94%        96%
population with   living in a locality with access
access to a phone         to a phone
(fixed, cellular,
payphones)
Price in US$ of
international     Price of a 2 M/month         32,000    25,000     8,000     4,000      2,000
leased lines (2
Mbps* month) to
London
Volume of         Revenue of domestically       NA         5                   20          0
electronic        generated and processed e-
transactions      commerce transactions (US $
millions
Letter mail       % delivered on day 2 (from end  53       53        65        70         80
to end))
Access to postal    Number of postal counters per
and financial     10,000 inhabitants:
services          -- in urban areas             0.89      0.89      0.91      0.95        1.00
-- in rural areas             0.84      0.84      0.87      0.89       0.92
J.      Benefits and Risks
58.    Benefits.  Competitiveness and Growth.  The development of a modern and competitive
information infrastructure network will provide a wider range of communication, information and
delivery services of higher quality and at more competitive prices. It will also provide Moroccan firms
with a greater exposure to international markets. The program of reforms supported by the proposed
operation will also bring additional flows of domestic and foreign direct investment associated with the
privatization of IAM and the issuing of new licenses for a wide range of services and the developrient of
infrastructures. The presence of new cellular, VSAT, and VAS operators, as well as new developments in
the IT sector, should stimulate the service industry, which accounts for an increasingly important share of
GDP in rapidly developing economies.
59.    Additional fiscal revenues.   The  Treasury  will gain  substantial fiscal revenues  from
implementation of the reforms, stemming mainly from higher taxes, caused by a competition-induced
enlargement of the telecommunications, IT and postal markets, from the fees obtained with the issuing of
new licenses, and from the proceeds of the IAM's privatization (Annex VI).
60.    Access. Poor residents of rural and  outlying  urban  areas will gain  greater access to
communications services as more intense competition and reliance on market mechanisms in the sector
spur network development and improve quality of service in remote areas. Higher penetration of
telecommunications, as well as postal and IT services, will strengthen the informational and economic
links between these areas and the rest of the country, thus facilitating the development of local businesses
and improving the management capacity of local governments. Improved access to communications will
also enable the more effective provision of social services such as health and education, which are c ritical
for reducing social disparities and stemming the flow of migrants to cities.
16



61.   More efficient Public Administration and reduction of transaction costforfirms and citizens. The
benefits related to the establishment of inter-administration networks are essentially three-fold.'0 First,
significant cost savings for the Public Administration (PA) from the elimination of unnecessary
duplication in information gathering and maintenance. Second, higher efficiency of PA, which facilitates
the streamlining of administrative procedures. Third, competitive gains for business and better services
for citizens, thanks to more efficient procedures, on-line forms and the recognition of electronic signature.
62.   Risks. The main risks associated with the implementation of the Government program include:
(a) a possible slow down in the introduction of effective competition in the telecommunications sector
(fixed line voice services); (b) weak institutional capacity to design and implement reforms, specially in
the IT and postal sector; (c) challenges to the regulatory agency's autonomy and its capacity to perform
efficiently, (d) delays in the elaboration and adoption of a new legal and regulatory framework in the
postal sector; and (e) insufficient coordination among ministries for the development of IT-based
initiatives.
63.   Risk mitigation. The success and results already achieved by the Government, notably the
successful privatization and issuing of the second GSM license, which led to lower tariffs, increased
access to telecommunications and significant capital inflows, represent the best protection against a
possible policy setback. In addition, the Bank team will maintain a continuous dialogue with all parties
concerned, and the AFDB two-tranche operation will provide additional leverage to monitor the impact of
the reforms supported by the one-tranche IISDL and the implementation of additional reforms in 2001-02.
The strong interest manifested by the Moroccan authorities and the postal operator to pursue the
collaboration with the Bank in the postal and IT sectors through follow up operations shows a
commitment to continue the implementation of reforms in these two sectors, including the strengthening
of inter-agency coordination and securing of necessary financial resources.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
64.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by
Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
April 16, 2001
10These benefits have been evaluated by European Countries (e.g. France, Italy) and are the core of the European Union
Programme 'nterchange of Data between Administrations" (1DA).
17






Annex 1
Page 1 of 16
ANNEX I
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR POLICY LETTER
Mr. President:
Morocco is committed to an open trade policy and integration in the global economy as the
means of ensuring sustained economic growth and an improved standard of living for the less
fortunate. In this context, information infrastructure becomes a key element in the success of the
Government's development strategy. It is expected to increase the competitiveness of Moroccan
businesses by lowering their production costs and putting them in closer contact with both
domestic and international clients.  It is also expected to facilitate the modernization of
government services and lessen the burden weighing on the private sector, to secure Morocco's
place in the information society, and to lower the cost of delivering social and infrastructure
services to the segments of the population that are marginalized today, particularly in the most
remote rural areas.
Given the new challenges created by the liberalization process set in motion by the
enactment of Law 24-96, the Government has adopted a clear strategy and plan of action to
energize the telecommunications, postal and information technology sector, the key objectives for
which were set out in the Sector Policy Letter of February 24, 1999.
This present Policy Letter updates and expands both the Governments major objectives in
this field and the measures that have already been introduced. In addition, it describes the
strategy the Government proposes to put into effect to achieve these objectives.
I      Introduction
1.   General objectives
The Government believes that the telecommunications, postal and information technology
sectors are key activities of the Moroccan economy, and that sound policies in these fields are
essential to achievement of two of its major objectives, namely to accelerate growth and reduce
disparities. The Government wishes to secure Morocco's place in the information society, foster
the development of a competitive and dynamic telecommunications sector that will enable the
country to meet the challenges of the 21't century, and increase the competitiveness of its postal
services by improving management methods and bringing them into line with international
standards. It will also:
* Provide Moroccan enterprises with access to the telecommunications, postal and information
technology services they require to become more competitive. The Government believes that
demand by the business community for such services should be met as rapidly as possible,
and that the services themselves must be of high quality and competitively priced. Finally, a
sufficiently broad range of services should be available to meet business demands.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 16
*   Provide poor groups in the population and those living in remote areas with access to
modem means of communication and information. To accomplish this, it is important to
carefully define the regional development and public service obligations of the
telecommunications et postal sector, and to meet these obligations in such a way that :he
needs of operators and the country as a whole are covered satisfactorily and at a reasonal]e
cost. It is equally important to put mechanisms in place which will ensure that providers of
telecommunications and postal services contribute to the sector's public service mission
efficiently and in a manner in keeping with the needs of the population.
*   Continue with the telecommunications sector liberalization program.
*   Foster modernization and greater efficiency in the delivery of government services,
including social services such as education and health care, by expanding reliance on
information technologies and increasing capacity to utilize these technologies effectively.
*   Promote the emergence of new economic activities in Morocco based on the development
and use of information technologies.
-   Improve the overall performance of the postal sector by developing all segments of t;he
postal market (new and better-quality services, sustainable upgrading of the general quality of
service) and by achieving higher resource productivity.
Define what is meant by public postal service and specify the resulting obligations that f all
on postal operators, including the historical postal operator BAM (Barid Al-Maghrib), in
terms of types of services, availability of access to them, and ways and means of financirig
them.
-   Foster progressive opening up of the postal market, simplify the regulations in force, review
the present postal legislation, and offer the private sector opportunities for greaf er
participation.
*   Convert the historical postal operator, BAM into a modern, dynamic enterprise, by vesting it
with greater financial and commercial autonomy and providing it with a legal status suited to
a commercial and increasingly competitive environment.
*   Foster the development of postal financial services so as to provide a larger proportion of tlie
population, particularly in the country's most remote rural areas, with access to financial
services (savings, loans, and insurance products), and to improve the mobilization of savings
and their use in the vitalization of private investment and the development of financial
markets.
*   Generate revenues for the Treasury in the field of telecommunications and information
technology, primarily in the form of taxes levied on the activities of operators, in the sarme
they are levied on other economic activities.
2.     Results already achieved
Considerable efforts have already gone into achieving the objectives listed above. For
example, the number of telephone lines in service rose from 266,000 at the end of 1987 to
1,500,000 in 2000. Average connection time dropped from 80 months to 1.4 months (rural areas



Annex 1
Page 3 of 16
included). Network transmission capacity increased from nearly 4,000 circuits to 466,000,
mainly through the use of fiber-optic technology. The use of fiber-optic technology and the
digitalization of virtually all transmission and switching systems has greatly improved network
reliability and made it possible to expand the range of services offered, including videotex, ISDN,
the Internet, and broadband connections. The number of rural municipal districts with automated
networks has risen from 65 to 1,298, in other words, all rural municipalities. The number of rural
localities with automated systems has risen from 69 to 1923, or 6.3% of all 32,000 rural localities.
In addition, expansion of the public telephone network increased the number of public phone
booths from 484 at the end of 1987 to 46,000 at the end of 2000, 83% of these booths being
managed by private promoters.
At the end of 2000, NMT-450 and GSM-900 mobile cellular radiotelephone networks
had over three million subscribers. These networks cover the major highways and all urban
centers serving as the administrative seats of prefectures and provinces. Thanks to the virtually
complete digitalization of transmission and switching systems and the establishment of new
networks, the quality and reliability of the services available have improved significantly. Use of
the Internet, access to which became available in November 1995, is developing at a sustained
pace, with a current group of 1,200 Internet service providers (ISPs) attending to approximately
200,000 users.
Since 1991, computer use has increased notably, as a result partly of the drop in hardware
and software prices and partly of the lowering of import duties from 42.5% to 17.5% as of
January 1, 1996. Current estimates put the total number of personal computers in Morocco at
200,000 units, representing an incidence rate of 0.7%, with annual sales of between 40,000 and
50,000 units. More than 800 information technology companies are estimated to be active in the
sector, with an estimated 4,000 persons on their payrolls and roughly DH 2.8 billion in sales.
Initiatives are also in progress to upgrade the management of the country's postal
services. The creation of BAM (Barid Al-Maghrib) in 1998 provided a platform from which to
introduce sustainable improvements focused on greater effectiveness of the services offered. In
this context, BAM developed business plan and investment strategy for the years 2000 to 2004.
A study currently under way will serve as a basis for recommendations for organizational units
and business systems through which strategic options can be put into effect efficiently.
New products have been launched and new partnerships have been formed so that a
broader range of better-quality financial services can be offered to the public. The expanded
network of 2,500 retail outlets provides partners (banks, insurance companies) with an attractive
opportunity to link up with new regions and new clients that currently have no access to these
services.
The administration of postal banking business and the Caisse d'epargne nationale has
been computerized, making it possible to offer customers a steadily improving range of services.
For instance, new ways of transferring funds, which rely on information technology, have been
introduced: electronic transfer of funds and use of the EUROGIRO network for external trade.
In the postal services field, new domestic express courier services have been introduced
(Poste rapide nationale, Rapid J, and Rapid H). E-mail access facilities have been installed in
post offices and on university campuses. International courier express business is the subject of a
joint venture between Barid Al-Maghrib and Chronopost S.A. The new corporation is set up
under Moroccan private law and named EMS Chronopost International Maroc, with BAM
holding a 66% share of its capital and Chronopost a 34% share.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 16
In financial terms, BAM earned significant net profits totaling DH 92.7 rnillion in 1999
compared to DH 55 million in 1998. Its accounting statements for the year 2000 indicate a profit
in the vicinity of DH 130 million.
However, it is in the legislative and institutional frameworks of the telecommunications
and postal activities that the most far-reaching reforms have been introduced. These measures
include the following:
*     Signature by Morocco of the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications Services.
*     Promulgation of Law 24-96 in August 1997. Its enactment opened up all segments of the
telecommunications market to competition and called for privatization of the historical
operator. It separated posts and telecommunications by creating a public agency with
responsibility for postal services, Barid AI-Maghrib (BAM), and a stock corporation - in
which the State currently holds 65% of the shares - for telecommunications, Itissalat.41-
Maghrib (TAM). In addition, it created a telecommunications sector regulatory agency
(ANRT), attached to the Office of the Prime Minister.
e     Promulgation of 15 decrees and orders enacted in implementation of Law 24-96. One of
these implementing decrees lays down the general principles governing interconnection,
establishes a mechanism for the settlement of disputes, specifies the essential elements of
interconnection contracts, and prescribes the general technical and cost principles
governing the supply of interconnection services. Other implementing decrees regulate
leased lines and introduce the list of value-added services that may be provided on the
basis of a simple declaration to the regulatory authorities.
*     Adoption and publication of the "2000-2004 Information Technologies Development
Plan."
*     The " Administration on Line" Initiative, which calls for all ministries and their personnel
to be linked electronically to one another, was announced by the Council of Government
on October 28, 1999 and is projected to be fully operational by the end of 2004.
*     The enactment in February 2000, of law 2-00 on Intellectual Property, including a
specific component on Information Technology
In addition, major progress had already been made following liberalization of the posts
and telecommunications sectors and their opening up to the private sector. For example:
*  The granting, to MEDITEL, in August 1999 of a second license to provide GSM mobile
telephone services. The transparent nature of the international competitive bidding
process which led to award of this license, plus the existence of a full regulatory
framework, clear commercial terms and conditions, and the attractive features of the
license, captured the interest of operators of worldwide importance, generated fee
revenue totaling DH 11 billion, and served as an incentive to the historical operator to
improve its services, expand them rapidly, and lower its prices significantly.
  The award in September 1999 of a first license to provide global mobile personal
communications by satellite (GMPCS), limited to data transmission service. A second
GMPCS license, including voice services, was subsequently awarded in March 2000.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 16
*  The granting in October 2000 of three licenses for satellite telecommunications services
of the VSAT type.
* In the posts sector, five private companies received authorization to provide international
express services. This measure, which allowed coverage of part of the market demand for
quick, reliable international deliveries of documents and packages, also opened the floor
for the debate on the role of the private sector in the provision of postal services.
II. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
The Government's Information Infrastructure Development Program implements the
2000-2004 Economic and Social Development Plan. It covers the telecommunications, postal and
information technology sectors.
1.   Telecommunications
The Government is convinced that accomplishment of its objectives in the
telecommunications sector hinges on the continuation of the liberalization process and
strengthening of the role of the private sector. This requires an ongoing effort to ensure that the
regulations governing the sector remain appropriate.
Since telecommunications are a key to and a driving force in the growth of the Moroccan
economy, the Government is committed to fostering the development of a competitive and
dynamic telecommunications sector and ensuring that the country possesses the type of high-
quality telecommunications infrastructure that will rapidly secure it a place in the information
society.
To these ends, the Government intends to:
Promote development of the telecommunications infrastructure facilities required for the
new multimedia applications;
*     Make access to telecommunications services widely available to all strata of the
population and throughout the country;
*     Expand the telecommunications market;
*     Promote competition in all segments of the telecommunications market;
*     Review the regulatory framework for telecommunications to allow the use of alternative
infrastructure facilities and strengthening competition, to foster an accelerated
development of the telecommunications market;
*     Assure businesses of the availability of, and access to, the types of services that are likely
to increase their competitiveness;
*     Ensure a prominent role for Morocco as a regional telecommunications platform.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 16
With these goals in mind, the following actions will be undertaken:
1.1   Extension of thefixedpublic telecommunications network
Despite its significant spatial distribution and coverage of urban centers and the
adrministrative seats of rural municipal districts, the fixed public telecommunications network still
requires a sustained effort if telephone density, especially in rural and peri-urban areas, is to he
increased.
The Government's minimum goals here are to increase telephone density from the year
2000 figure of 5.4% to at least 10% in 2005 and 15% in 2012. The number of public telephonris
will be increased from 1.5 per 1,000 inhabitants in 2000 to 2 2005 and to 4 in 2012.
As regards quality of service, measured by the fault report rate per subscriber per year,
which was 24.8% in 2000, the goals are to achieve a 20% rate in 2005 and 10% in 2012.
To this effect, the Government's liberalization program provides for the grant of new
licenses and for new universal service mechanisms that will extend access to telephone serviccus
beyond what operators are currently able to make available under satisfactory commercial
conditions.
1.2   Extension of the mobile cellular network
Mobile wireless telephony is the segment of the telecommunications sector with thLe
highest growth rate and the highest value added. Given the growing demand for cellular
telephone services, the focus will be on building up network density, diversifying services, and
improving quality. In the case of network densification, the objective is to promote fuller,
country-wide coverage. In that of service quality, it is to improve coverage of peri-urban districts
and the interiors of buildings in urban centers.
To accomplish these objectives, the Government intends to encourage existing operators
to expand by allocating new frequencies and streamlining the grant of new mobile and GMPC'S
licenses (including voice services).
Furthermore, the spectacular expansion in mobile telecommunications and demand f:)r
broadband multimedia services makes it essential to accelerate provision of access to third-
generation mobile cellular networks (IMT-2000). The government goal here is to guarantee the
availability of frequencies for these networks and to develop a system for the allocation of
licenses.
1.3   Strengthening of national high-speed telecommunications infrastructure
In order to ensure the availability of telecommunications infrastructure facilities capable
of handling the throughput rates required for high-speed Internet access, videoconferencing,
sound and television broadcast signals, and applications such as medical imaging, the
Government is committed to the following medium- and long-range objectives:
* Continued installation of high-speed transmnission and switching infrastructure.
*   Acceleration of the move from fixed public telecommunications networks to a structure
based on the Internet protocol.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 16
*   Utilization of alternative infrastructure.
*   Realization of a feasibility study for a national multi-service satellite system.
The Government has taken the decision to issue new high-speed licenses to allow
coverage of the demand for services that transfer at least 2 MB per second.
Finally, the Government has also decided to elaborate a framework law in order to
liberalize the audiovisual sector.
1.4   Universal service and access to basic telecommunications services
Telecommunications infrastructure development in the rural world constitutes an effective
means of stabilizing the rural population, providing access to basic services, improving
agricultural production, and encouraging the emergence of non-agricultural activities.
In this context, the goal is to increase telephone density in rural areas from the year 2000
figure of 0.6% to 3.5% in 2005 and 7% in 2012, and to install at least one public telephone call
box in every community with over 250 inhabitants by 2005 and one call box per 100 inhabitants
by 2012. These goals will be achieved mainly through the establishment of the universal service
mechanism and to the award of licenses to provide universal service, scheduled to be launched in
2002.
In order to improve conditions for the provision of universal service, the Government is
drafting legislation which (a) specifies the objectives of universal service, (b) gauges how much
of the cost of accomplishing these objectives goes beyond what operators themselves are
prepared to invest commercially, (c) defines a mechanism to impose the universal service charges
authorized by Law 24-96 and allocate the resulting proceeds, and (d) define the principles and
mechanisms that will govern the allocation of these funds, preferably through market-oriented
procedures, in such a way as to ensure that such services are provided in an efficient, cost-
effective, and competition-neutral manner.
The new LAM's license defines this operator's universal service obligations not only
during the period when it is the sole provided of such services but also for the longer term. Thus,
LAM is to bring service to over 600 additional rural localities by 2002. The maximum
contributions IAM can be expected to make to the financing of these social goals are also
specified.
1.5 Membership in worldwide systems
Membership in worldwide cable and satellite systems will provide Morocco with a
supplementary infrastructure which is secure and diversified in terms of services (voice, data, and
image) and provides global connectivity. This in turn will reinforce its role as the foremost
regional telecommunications platform. With this in mind, the Government intends to put into
effect a policy designed to facilitate participation by Moroccan operators in these systems.
1.6   Opening of lAM to private sector interests
In February 2001, the Government concluded the first phase of opening the capital of
Itissalat Al-Maghrib (IAM), the principal government-owned telecommunications corporation, to



Annex 1
Page 8 of 16
private investors. The Government believed that attracting private capital was necessary to allow
IAM to position itself appropriately on the domestic and global telecommunications markets,
both of them in a dynamic state of flux. An international competitive bidding process, launched
in October 2000, led to the selection of the Vivendi Universal Group as IAM's strategic partner,
holding 35% of its capital. This transaction, which brought the Government DH 23.3 billion in
revenue, was to be followed 12-18 months later by public offer of sale of LAM shares on world
capital markets. This public offer should not only generate significant revenue for the Moroccan
Treasury but also give IAM access to international capital markets.
1.7  Acceleration of the liberalization process
The Government intends to accelerate the process of liberalizing the telecommunications
sector, after having adopted various transparent rules designed to ensure equitable treatment of
both existing and new operators. It believes that greater competition will be reflected in more
rapid growth for the telecommunications sector as a whole and in performance improvemerts.
These outcomes will enhance the value of LAM and simultaneously benefit the Morocc an
economy in general. The following is a partial list of specific actions that will be taken to further
liberalize the telecommunications sector:
*   The range of services that may be provided on the basis of simple declaration to the
authorities will be broadened.
*   Additional requests for GMPCS licenses will be processed upon request.
*   Telecommunications licenses will be issued in 2001 and 2002 for the development of
services other than voice services throughout the country: a license for high-speed inter-citty
(backbone) infrastructure; local licenses; a license for a second national operator; and
licenses for network systems of radio communications with shared resources(3 RP). Voice
telephony services will become available at the end of 2002.
*   Universal service licenses and an international telecommunications license for all services
will be offered in 2002.
*   Under the terms of its license, the second GSM  operator has the option of providing its
clients with international service as of January 1, 2002, using its own facilities.
1.8  Improvement of the regulations promoting liberalization
The quality  and  credibility  of Morocco's telecommunications regulations were
demonstrated clearly in connection with the successful award of the second GSM license and the
privatization of LAM. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to take the following further steps
to strengthen this regulatory framework:
*  Propose an amendment to Law 24-96 to replace ex ante controls by ANRT with ex post
controls. This amendment, now going through the Parliamentary ratification process,
will enable the Board of Directors of ANRT, as a last resort, to approve modifications to
the agency's Staff Rules.
  Propose an amendment to Law 24-96 to (a) broaden the definition of universal service,
(b) enable ANRT to propose sanctions geared in severity to the seriousness of infractions



Annex 1
Page 9 of 16
committed against the regulations in force, and (c) make it simpler for license-holders to
take advantage of alternative telecommunications infrastructure facilities.
*  Separate the National Institute of Post and Telecommunications from ANRT.
*  Ensure that IAM submits to ANRT a revised list of interconnections commensurate with
best international practices, and in line with the prices in effect on competitive markets.
*  Ensure that ANRT implements procedures to undertake consultations with the public and
the publication of decisions taken with their rationale, in order to increase the
transparency of the regulation.
*  Review ANRT's financial projections by March 2002 and adjust the fees and other
recurrent charges imposed by this agency in order to ensure that they generate enough
revenue to cover the agency's operating costs without resort to Treasury funds. This
exercise will be repeated approximately every three years to take into account the state of
the market and any other possible changes. On this occasion, an reassessment will also
be made of the current economic value of the frequency spectrum, the adequacy of the
related tariffs, and allocation of the revenue they generate.
1.9 Development of a regional telecommunications platform in Morocco
The World Trade Organization Agreement on Telecommunications, in effect since
February 1998, has created a global market where barriers to investment in and operation of
telecommunications services have been significantly reduced.  Morocco, which became a
signatory to this important agreement after having taken an active part in its negotiation, is fully
aware of its repercussions where the future of Moroccan telecommunications is concerned.
Having already experienced the advantages of bringing the institutional structures of its
own telecommunications sector into line with international developments, Morocco has the
legitimate ambition to capture a share of the foreign market through the privatization of Itissalat
Al-Maghrib and the liberalization of telecommunications services.
It is in this context that the strategic partnership between IAM and Vivendi Universal is
expected to afford possibilities of investment in and provision of services in the European,
Mediterranean, and African spheres. The recent acquisition by IAM of 54% of the capital of
Socigti' mauritanienne des telecommunications (Mauritel) is a good illustration of the reality of
this ambition.
Morocco's strategic geographic position at the crossroads of major global infrastructure
constituted by submarine cables linking four continents, combined with the presence of a
Moroccan community abroad, can only reinforce this position.
In addition, the fact that the next Plenipotentiary Conference of the International
Telecommunications Union is to be held in Morocco in 2002 - the first occasion that policy
makers, regulators, operators of telecommunications services, and major sector entrepreneurs
from all over the world meet in an Arab country - should reinforce the country's potential as a
regional telecommunications platform.



Annex 1
Page 10 of 16
2. Postal services
In the postal sector, one objective of the Economic and Social Development Plan is to
provide Morocco's population throughout the country with high-quality, and affordable postal
services. To this end, the Government has launched a far-reaching reform of the sector in or(der
to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of BAM, refine the definition of universal service,
gradually liberalize the sector in the light of studies now in progress, and enable postal financ.al
services to mobilize small savings more effectively.
2.1 Sector strategy
In order to maximize the potential of postal sector activities, the Government is focusi rIg
its objectives on the following strategic areas:
*  Placing the Moroccan postal service on a par with other services worldwide that have be n
opened up to competition;
*  Enabling the postal sector to effectively accompany the economic development process;
*  Clearly defining the obligations inherent in providing universal postal service, along with
other obligations of general interest in the sector, in order to better understand their scope,
cost, and implementation and financing arrangements;
*  Establishing the institutional framework that will regulate the postal sector; and
*  Identifying short- and medium-term measures needed to enable BAM to adapt its legal sta:.us
so that it will be poised to perform efficiently in a competitive environment.
To this end, studies now nearing completion will facilitate the overhaul of the legal anrid
regulatory structure of the postal sector and the adaptation of Barid Al-Maghrib's legal statuis,
particularly via through the adoption of a new law governing the postal sector.
A new approach to providing universal service would help to ensure that poor rural areas
receive more efficient and high-quality service. With this objective in view, various options ..re
being considered, including franchising.
Finally, a number of measures are deemed essential for improving mail delivery to postal
addresses, including municipal works (requiring naming of roads and streets and numbering of
dwellings) and installation of mailboxes at building entries.



Annex 1
Page 11 of 16
2.2. Postal service business strategy
BAM, the main postal operator, is implementing its plans to modernize services and
improve operational performance. It has already developed a comprehensive forward-looking
strategy and must now devise a commercial strategy and an investment plan to transform its
traditional administrative structures into a modern commercial enterprise based on reliable
systems (planning, accounting, auditing, a management information system [MIS], and
information technology).
The BAM restructuring study, which began in November 2000, is currently at the
diagnostic stage. This phase is expected to end in April and to produce recommendations that
will be implemented over a period of 12 months.
Once the new structures and systems are in place, BAM should be ready to implement its
action plan and improve its modus operandi so that it will be able to meet the demands it will face
in an increasingly more competitive business environment.
In addition, a performance contract currently being finalized between the Government
and BAM calls for reforming the postal operator's institutional structure to make it sufficiently
flexible to meet exacting performance requirements in a competitive environment. The contract
also requires the two parties to develop a program to liberalize the various postal products offered
and calls for the adoption of a regulatory framework redefining the scope of BAM' s activities.
The market potential for top-quality postal services is enormous. Direct marketing -
which, while not yet highly developed in Morocco, has begun to make inroads - will depend
heavily on a reliable postal system covering the entire country and accessible to all its inhabitants.
Mail derived from this activity is the fastest-growing segment of the postal industry in most
countries. The same is true for parcel delivery. Indeed, the development of electronic commerce
goes in step with an increase in mail orders, thus opening up vast opportunities for parcel delivery
services. The Government will take the necessary measures to invigorate these markets.
2.3 The postalfinancial services strategy
The development of postal financial services should meet three basic goals:
*  Ensure the efficient operation of the postal network in order to provide access to its financial
services (such as electronic money orders and savings, credit, and insurance services) to a
larger portion of the population, particularly inhabitants of rural and under-served areas;
*  Enable the postal operator to diversify its revenue stream in an environment characterized by
the liberalization of the sector, the reduction of the Government's monopoly over the
provision of postal services, and the transformation of the legal status of the postal operator;
and
*  Mobilize more savings that can be used for a wide range of investments, in order to spur
private investment and develop a financial market.
In light of these objectives, the BAM restructuring study currently under way will be
supplemented starting in 2001 with a study led by the Treasury and External Finance Division on
the Caisse d'e'pargne nationale (CEN) and postal checking accounts (CCP).



Annex 1
Page 12 of 16
This study, which is intended to cover all issues relating to postal financial services, w ill:
*  Evaluate the potential demand for new postal financial services, the level of potential savings,
the degree of BAM's penetration in the country, the structural limits to this penetration, And
the range of financial products which BAM could market through the postal network; and
* Present a strategic analysis taking into account both international experience and the situat ion
within Morocco, ultimately identifying possible modifications to the institutional framexV Drk
and to the way postal financial services should be developed based on various possible
options (for example, the postal operator as manager of financial services, a "postal bank' as
a statutory public entity, or a "postal bank" partly owned by a private commercial bank).
3. Information technologies
Because information technologies play such a key role in society nowadays, the IT se(. tor
should be considered a strategic sector with a major impact on economic and social developm,. nt.
Accordingly, the Economic and Social Development Plan, which has assigned priority to
strengthening the country's information society, calls for:
*  Promoting the modernization and efficiency of the Government and public entities throa.gh
implementation of the Administration on Line program;
*  Fostering the emergence of a knowledge- and innovation-based economy;
*  Strengthen and complete the legal and regulatory framework that should enable the
development of new information technologies;
*  Promoting electronic commerce;
* Accelerating the use of the Internet;
*  Using information technologies to promote decentralization and regional development
(amenagement du territoire); and
*  Strengthening the institutional framework for coordinating the development of informal ion
technologies.
To achieve these objectives, the actions described below will be undertaken.
3.1 Adoption of a legal and regulatory framework
For an information society to flourish - a key objective of any telecommunications po icy
- a legal and regulatory environment is needed to instill confidence, create a framework for the
use of information technologies, and adapt to the speed of technological change.  'i'he
Government's program of action in this regard calls for improving and adapting instruments
focusing on:
* The evidential value of data transmission, electronic signatures, and its certification accord ing
to international standards. The relevant bill - which was finalized by an expert commi tee
appointed by the Prime Minister - will be adopted by the Council of Government in 2001;



Annex 1
Page 13 of 16
* Privacy protection through the introduction of declaration or authorization procedures for the
establishment and use of lists of names. including the right of citizens to gain access to and
correct inforrnation about themselves.
*  Confidentiality and security of electronic communications and transactions;
*  Consumer protection; and
*  Adaptation of the tax system and customs code to electronic comrmerce.
3.2 Development of the Internet
Given the Internet's increasing importance as the standard medium for exchanging all
types of economic, commercial, and cultural information, the Cm,nernment plans to promote its
more extensive use.
In addition to building additional telecommunications infrastructure, the specific actions
to be undertaken to promote Internet use mainly include:
- Improved access to and interconnection with public telecommunications networks for
Internet service providers, for example, by issuing new telecommiinunications licenses;
. Extension of the Morocco Wide Area Network (MARWAN). a high-speed information
system to promote research and training already in place in 16 university towns.
* Development of national Internet content, through: (i) computerization of schools by 2008
under "one computer for every school" program byv 2008; (ii) implementation of the
Administration on line program by 2004; (iii) establishment - in partnership with local
communities and BAM - of telecenters with public Internet access facilities; (iv) use of
information technologies as a regional development tool through the development of digital
town projects; and (v) development of national portals for electronic commerce.
3.3 Data Standardization
In order to develop efficient data exchange systems and link databases and information
systems, attention must be focused on standardizing data and protocols so that they will conform
to international standards.
Indeed, the availability of technical standards and standardized data will allow businesses
and government agencies to better organize and improve their information systems and databases
and promote the implementation of electronic data exchange mechanisms.
To launch this standardization work, the Government is cunently financing a study which
will lead to the establishment of a standardization system or institution. This institution will be
responsible for pursuing standardization efforts (through the adoption of norms and standards),
coordinating the data standardization efforts of government agencies and professional groups,
developing standardized databases for public or sector data. and establishing code and formats for
electronic data interchange.



Annex 1
Page 14 of 16
3.4 Administration on Line
Information technology will be used as a tool to modernize the Moroccan Governr,-Mnt.
The objective is to promote access to and the exchange of data for the benefit of government
agencies, the population, and businesses, particularly through the introduction of paperless
transactions.
This effort will make it possible to:
*  integrate common services and applications;
*  achieve economies of scale;
*  adopt standardized exchange procedures;
*  ensure that data remains secure;
*  bring the Public Administration closer to the population; and
*  outsource some functions.
To this end, a world-renowned consulting firm was hired to prepare a study on the
subject. This study, now completed should lead to the development of an implementation
strategy for the development of an inter-agency network, including governance arrangements 'Ind
financing sources and mechanisms for this network, and to the implementation of a pilot project
for the Integrated Management of Government Human Resources (GIPE).
In addition, the Administration on Line initiative has been included in the 2000-2004
Five-Year Plan. The subsequent phases of implementation include a pilot inter-ministerial
network to connect the ministries already advanced in IT use and equipment, creation of acct ss
points for citizens within pilot sites, connection of all ministerial departments to this netwc,rk,
including their services to citizens, and widespread diffusion of access points.
3.5 Promotion of electronic commerce
The Government will develop the legal and regulatory framework required to inatill
confidence in, and establish the conditions for promoting, electronic commerce. These conditions
will facilitate online commercial transactions among businesses as well as between businesses
and consumers.
The Government is especially interested in encouraging - in partnership with chambers
of commerce -- the development of virtual trade shows offering products and services of, for
example, the tourism, handicrafts, and agricultural sectors.
To this end, in August 2000 the Government selected two business-to-consumer (B2C)
electronic commerce platforms meeting current international standards. The two platforms are
operational since April 2001, and their establishment is being supplemented by a one-year
training program for managers of cooperatives in the use of information technologies and a
campaign to educate cooperatives about the benefits of participating in electronic commerce.
Efforts are also under way to find investors within the framework of public-priN ate
partnerships for the purpose of establishing at least one certification authority and a Moroc,can
electronic business-to-business (B2B) marketplace.



Annex 1
Page 15 of 16
3.6 Use of information technologies for regional development
Information technologies are unquestionably a valuable tool for the integration and
strengthening of regional development policy, deconcentration, and decentralization.
The main objective in this area is to improve the distribution of communications and
information infrastructure and ensure that equitable technical arrangements and rate schedules
govern access to this infrastructure.
With this objective in view, the Government has implemented a strategy focusing on the
following priority areas:
*  Establishment of community telecenters providing all population groups with access to
communications and information services, including the Internet, on favorable economic
terms - a step that will relieve the isolation of rural areas. The Government wants every
community to have such a telecenter.
*  Given the vast potential for online activities in terms of job creation and generation of added
value, the Government will focus on creating an environment conducive to the development
of teleservices, including tele-education, teleinformatics, telemedicine, and teleservices for
information and mediation.
*  Establishment of partnerships with local communities to promote the use of town portals for
the purpose of: (i) publicizing local economic, cultural, and tourism-related opportunities;
(ii) facilitating local access to and the exchange of information; (iii) fostering the
development of teleservices; and (iv) developing virtual commercial storefronts to display
local products. In this context, under an agreement with the Hassan II Fund, the Government
has undertaken a strategic study (to be completed in June 2001) with a view to establishing
town portals.
3.7 Use of information technologies to maximize the potential of Morocco's cultural heritage
The trend towards an information society affords Morocco the opportunity to strengthen
its cultural identity through the creation of digitized records of its heritage and dissemination of
this data online, thus maximizing the multiplier effect of information technologies. This
digitalization process will meet the following objectives: (i) establishment of electronic archiving
systems within government agencies; (ii) promotion of public access; (iii) digitalization of the
heritage holdings of the Bibliotheque Generale et Archives, and (iv) creation of multimedia
cultural spaces and development of Moroccan Internet sites.
3.8 Promotion of a national information technology industry
The Government is determined to promote the emergence of a national information
technology industry and therefore plans to:
*  Mobilize resources in support of strategic and dynamic information technology and
telecommunications projects;
* Establish a regulatory framework governing venture capital for the benefit of innovative
enterprises;



Annex 1
Page 16 of 16
*  Encourage research and development by: (i) establishing a network (in the form of a
partnership) to coordinate research and development bringing together businesses,
universities, and training institutions; and (ii) promoting partnerships between Moroccan and
foreign businesses; and
*  Maximize the country's human resource potential by: (i) developing basic instructional
materials on information technology for use in basic, secondary, and higher education; 'ii)
incorporating new information technologies (such as computers, the Internet, and
multimedia) in training curricula; and (iii) organizing information technology skill training
programs for self-employed persons in the workforce.
In pursuit of these goals, by royal decision a 30,000-square-meter ultramodern
technopark was dedicated in October 2000 in Casablanca to the development of information
technology companies, particularly start-ups. The technopark, which should be operational in
July 2001, will be managed by a public-private company that is in the process of being
established. In addition, the Hassan II Fund has budgeted DH 90 million for the development: of
the Bouznika technopark.
4. Conclusions
In sum, the objective of the Government is to ensure a coherent development of the post,
telecommunications and information technology sector in order to reinforce the contribution of
this sector to Morocco's economic growth, to increase the competitiveness of national finns,
while at the same time ensuring improved access to ICT services.



Annex II
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX II
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT MATRIX OF POLICY OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
OBJECTIVES                                       MEASURES REQUIRED FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
1.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Privatization of LAM 1.1. Transfer of 35% of IAM's (Maroc Telecom) capital to a strategic partner, including signature of:
(a) the decree containing LAM's license (Cahier des charges de l'operateur), in agreement with the Government's sector
strategy.
(b) the shareholders' agreement, ensuring transfer of IAM' s management control to a strategic partner;
(c) the decree transferring 35% of LAM's capital to the strategic partner.
Reinforce           1.2. Adoption by the Conseil d'Administration de 1'ANRT of the Agency's plan to award licenses in different segments of the
competition in     telecommunications market during 2000-2002
telecommnunications
services and        1.3. Award of a GMPCS license, including voice services, through a competitive bidding process.
infrastructure
1.4. Launching by ANRT of the call for expressions of interest for the award of the following telecommunications licenses:
a. One or more Local Licenses (local loop)
b. One license for inter-urban (backbone) services;
OT
c. A license for a second national operator;
Expand the access to 1.5. Definition of universal service obligations in LAM' s license (Cahier des Charges)
services at
reasonable prices for 1.6 Definition of a regime for the provision of universal service, in particular:
all segments of the
population             Preparation by ANRT of draft regulatory text(s) defining the new regime for the provision of universal services, including the
scope of services, procedures for determining tariffs, responsibility of provision, sources of funds, and a market mechanism to
determine and allocate any necessary subsidies.



Annex II
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVES                                        MEASURES REQUIRED FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
Reinforce the       1.7. Adoption by ANRT's Board and implementation of a new Statute of Personnel, including a professional ethics code.
regulatory          1.8 Adoption by the Council of Government of an amendment to Law 24-96, replacing a priori by a posteriori financial control
framework of        1    f ANRTd
telecommunications      o
1.9 Preparation by ANRT of the Terms of Reference for a study on economic pricing for the use of the radio-electric spectrum,
and confirmation of budget allocated for this study.
2. INFORMATION SOCIETY
Develop a legal an    2.1 Elaboration by the inter-ministerial Committee of a draft law on data transmission, including principles on recognition of
adequate legal and    electronic signature and certification.
regulatory
framework for
Information
Technolgoy
Develop inter-      2.2 (a) Submission to the Bank by SEPTI of the consultant's final report on the government strategy for the "Administration on
adevelpinister-n    Line" (AOL) initiative.
administration
networks              (b) Identification of AOL pilot project, focussed on the Integrated Management of Government's Human Resources (Gestion
Inte'gee du Personnel de V 'Etat - GIPE), including allocation of roles and responsibilities and identification of funding
sources.
2.3 Allocation of funding for subsequent phases of the AOL study.
Promote the         2.4 Promote development of centers for information technology-related activities, in particular through the creation of technology
development of      parks in Casablanca and Bouznika through public-private financing.
electronic commerce
Integrate certain   2.5 Signature of contracts with two private firms to develop, with their own financing resources, electronic portals that will
traditional sectors in  benefit economic cooperatives.
world commerce



Annex II
Page 3 of 3
3.   POSTAL SECTOR
Design a national    3.1 Adoption in the national five-year plan (Plan quinquennal) of a program of measures for the development and modernization
strategy for the       of the postal sector.
modernization of the
sector              3.2 Submission to the Bank by SEPTI of provisional final report on studies providing the basis for the design of a national
strategy for the development of the postal sector, including universal service and opening of the sector to competition.
Modernize the       3.3 Submission to the Bank by BAM of preliminary report of study regarding BAM's strategic plan and internal restructuring to
postal operator        enhance the firm's efficiency in a competitive environment.
BAM
3.4 Finalization of performance contract between the State and BAM, including commitments to soften a priori controls on the
operator, and giving BAM more flexibility to adapt to a more competitive environment and to prepare for sector
liberalization.
Extend the provision
of financial services  3.4 Finalization of Terms of Reference for study, which will serve as a basis to: (a) present one or several options to develop the
through the postal     savings products and financial services of CEN and the CCP, without introducing undue distortions to fair competition in the
network                banking and financial system; and (b) formulate a plan for developing the necessary in house expertise and skills mix needed
to deliver such new products and a plan to eventually spin off such services in a separate institution.
Objectives                                          Measures required for Loan Effectiveness
Reinforce the       4.1 Adoption by the Council of Government of several amendments to the Telecommunications Law to, inter alia: (a) expand the
regulatory          definition of universal service; (b) authorize ANRT to impose financial and admninistrative sanctions proportionate to the
framework for       violations; and (c) facilitate the availability of alternative infrastructures by potential suppliers of these infrastructures to licensed
telecommunications  telecommunications operators.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX III
Key Information Infrastructure Program Milestones (2000 - 2002)
Sector and          Recent Achievements                     Planned Measures
Topic                    (to 04/01)                     (05/01 to 12/02, target dates)
Telecommunications
35% of LAM sold to strategic    Share sale to employees (2001)
Privatization   investor (02/01)               IPO planned on Casablanca and international
exchanges (2002); IPO calendar *
Launch of services of second    Second cellular operator starts international
Liberalization   cellular operator (04/00)     service (01/02)
Award of 3 VSAT licenses (10/00)
Expressions of interest requested    Launch of tender for new licenses, includin,g voice
for new fixed licenses (03/01)  as of 2003 (Q3/01) *
Award of new fixed licenses (2001-2002)
Award of new international licenses (2002)
Universal     License conditions of IAM include
Service       specific US obligations (10/00)
Amendment to telecom law drafted  Amendment approved by government (09/01) and
expanding US definition (02/01)    national assembly (Q1/02)
Decree establishing new US regime  Decree approved by council of government
___ __   drafted (03/01)             (06/01) * and council of ministers (Q4/01)
Legal/        Amendment to telecom law drafted  Amendment, approved by government (06/01) and
Regulatory    inter alia to strengthen ANRT's  national assembly (Q1/02), enters into force
Framework    enforcement powers (02/01)        (Q2/02) ; substantial progress *
Parliament approves bill relaxing    Bill enters into force (Q3/01) *
financial controls on ANRT (04/01)
New interconnection offer approved by ANRT
(06/01)
TOR and funding for study on    Adjustment of spectrum fees to cost of spectrum
tarification of spectrum rights  management and regulation (03/02) *
(04/01)
Information Society
Legislation   Bill on electronic signature and  Bill approved by council of government (Q4f01)*,
certification drafted (08/00)   council of ministers (Q1/02) and parliament
(Q3/02)
Selection of Pilot Project for  Effective launch of pilot project *
Administration-on-Line (03/01)
Establishment of cyberparks     Effective launch of activities in the Casablanca
cyberpark *
Signature of agreements to foster    At least 15 cooperatives have started using e-
use by cooperatives of e-commerce  commerce *



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Postal Sector
Legal/Regulatory  Completion of study on the   Validation of study by SEPTI *
Framework        postal sector (04/01)         Draft postal law covering: universal service,
reserved service, liberalization schedule,
regulatory body, reform of BAM legal status
(Q4/01)
Operator/owner   2000-2004 Program contract    Signature of program contract (Q2/01) *
relationship     agreed between BAM and the
State providing greater
transparency in their relationship
(08/00)
BAM              Completion of first phase of  Validation of study by BAM management *
Restructuring    BAM restructuring study (04/01) Thorough re-organization, including, possibly,
subsidiaries for the main activities.
Signing of the performance contract between the
State and BAM.
Financial        TOR for major study on        Launching of the study by the Treasury (2001) *
Services         development of postal financial
_________=______  services (05/00)        _
Dates in the right hand column are World Bank estimates. Where date is in bold italics, it figures in the
government's letter of sector policy.
* indicates this is also a second tranche condition of the AfDB loan.



Annex IV
Page I of 9
ANNEX IV
KEY SECTOR DATA
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE OVERVIEW
This Annex describes progress realized in the three areas of the Information Infrastructure (II) in
Morocco (telecommunications, information technologies and post) over the 1993-2000 period. The first
section considers fundamental sector indicators, providing international benchmarks. The second one
summarizes the policy reforms implemented by the Government during that period and supported by the
TPI-SAL loan, and the lessons learned.
A. Evolution of the II during the 1993-2000 period
Telecommunications. The telecomrnmunications network was significantly expanded and modernized
during the '90s. The share of telecornmunications revenues in GDP remained stable between 1993 and
1997 at about 1.8-2.0%, a value close to the average of industrialized countries, but lower than dynamic
emerging economies, where revenues can exceed 4% of GDP (Malaysia, Chile). In the years 1998-2000,
thanks to mobile telephony growth, the percentage is estimated to have increased to 2.5-2.8%. The fixed
network grew at an average annual rate of 13.6%. As a result, the number of customers increased from
827,000 in 1993 to about 1,515,000 nowadays, bringing overall penetration rate (no. of fixed telephony
customers per 100 inhabitants) to about 5.5%. But it is in mobile telephony where recent growth was
concentrated. Overall GSM market size grew from 364,000 in December 1999 to 1,401,000 by end June
2000, to reach over 3,000,000 in January 2001 (mobile penetration higher than 10%). This exceptional
growth is due to intense competition between Maroc Telecom and Medi Telecom, and to quick pre-paid
cards diffusion. Expansion of the basic network cancelled the waiting list, that still in 1993 consisted of
107,000 unmet requests. In terms of quality, the fixed line network is modem and efficient: digitalization
is close to 100% and IT is present in network maintenance, operation and management. As a result, labor
productivity increased by about 50% between 1993 and 1997 and the fault rate was progressively
reduced, increasing the "mean time between faults" (MTBF) from 1.5 to 2.7 years. This is still below best
practice (MTBF of 20-25 years). Rural access remains low, although progress took place, as mobile
coverage reaches now 90% of the Moroccan population (this means that 90% of the Moroccans leave in a
locality covered by the GSM  signal). However, the access gap between urban and rural areas re.mains
high, with fixed and mobile penetration in Casablanca about 3 to 4 times higher than in the rest of the
country.
;Moroemco Ru r Tleconimuncailons lndicators   1995    1996    1997    1998    19990   ;QO
TeIeicm revenues as a % of GDP           1.90%    1.90%    1.92%    2.00%    2.1%    2.5%
Malnfoiepiot lwins operation          1,158,000 1,251,000 1,375,000 1,450,000 1,471,479 1,500,000
F0ixed    lt; lis per 100 InhabitAts4.34          4.60     4.72    5.03     5.26     5.58
Mob.lesubscrlbers erl100nhabitants       0.11     0.16     0.27     0.4     2.1      10.7
TotalOenslty(fixed+wirelesscustmers) 0 1,188,800 1,296,000 1,450,600 1,562,000 2,060,000 4,500,000
Mo|e%ixed penetration                   2.55%    3.44%    5.42%    7.45%    25%     200%
Waltingis*nsa%fconnected subscrlbers     8.1%     3.8%    2.1%      NA       NA      NA
XOetof,focicalIinus ent0slm;in          1.36     1.36     2.98    2.98     2.45     2.45
Coetotenk~temationaIcaUteF:*ce inUS$'min    1.26  1.26     0.73    0.52     0.52     0.47
MortiNy subscription charge - re. 0(US$/monthj  5.52  5.52  5.52   6.84     6.84     6.84
%o0tdlglta ines                         95%      98%      99%     99%      100%    100%
Fauts per 100 lines per year 049                   55      46       37       30      24.8
Sources: ITU (1994,1999); (S) Siemens (1997). Maroc telecom; ANRT



Annex IV
Page 2 of 9
Comparing Morocco with international benchmarks, we note that overall fixed telephony
indicators are broadly in line with values observed elsewhere in the region. Penetration and network
digitalization are high by international standards and the number of faults per 100 lines is lower in
Morocco than in most of the countries of the sample. Morocco radically improved its mobile telephony
performance. The recent sector developments boosted penetration, now higher than regional comparators,
and is growing quickly. Morocco is on its way to approach levels of mobile development comparable to
those of advanced emerging markets. In terms of Internet development, Morocco is within regional
benchmarks, but the whole MENA region lags behind other regions. Therefore, in this area Morocco has
broad room for growth.
Fixed lines per 100 No, of fixed lnes  % of digital ltnes Mobile subsribos lnterrnt Hosts per 10,000
infibatants    per employee     (FF) 199)    p0*100 Inhabit"s     inhabhants
i^   ~ __1(2000p)                     (1)9)                         {SJuIyro0         (July 2000
Moroco               5&58             104             100             4,72              0,33
Tunisia               9.61            129             100             1.31              0.10
Egypt                 808              84              86             2.01              0.93
Turkey                28.70           249              84            14.61              17.23
Chie                 23.54            233             100             19.27             34.02
Malaysia             21 07            174             100             19.3              28.22
Portugal              43.91           215             100             54.94            117.37
Mobae subsibers; Global Mobile November 8, 20GO. interret Hosts per 10,000 inhabftns Network Wizards (July 2000 Surveyi. All
other figures are provided by the International Telecommnunications Union.
The analysis of tariffs for different services shows that in areas where competition was
introduced, Morocco is ahead regional benchmarks, and consumers reaped considerable benefits. In other
areas, like Internet, wholesale and international communications, where monopoly is still protected or
where effective competition is limited, Morocco lags behind. In mobile communications, competition
brought tariffs in the range of major international cellular providers in competitive markets. The
following table, in particular, shows that Maroc Telecom, in response to the competitive threat of
MediTelecom, reduced tariffs three times, bringing the price of 360 minutes of airtime to slightly over 60
USD, down from 140 US$ at end 1998. Tariff offers were modified during 2000, following effective
competition, and tailored to consumer needs.
10   obWle: Convn6nicatlonsr                                                *Voto  00mnte.WUI
140
120
U 80
__J_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-77                                       -'    ; '  A   ;4 U@#S ,..,,.,r
S
$ 60,
40
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
0
MrcoMorocco Morocco Morocco Morocco  Tunisia  Egypt  Turkey  France  Italy  Finland Lebanon  USA  Hungary
3098)  1099)  3Q99)  4Q99)  (2000)
Operator
Tariff rebalancing for fixed lines services showed some progress, but is far from  complete. In
particular, the basket of international tariffs selected below (3 miinutes calls to international destinations),
shows that Morocco is still 2 to 4 times more expensive than European benchmarks. On the other hand,



Annex IV
Page 3 of 9
the monthly fee is still low (7-9 US$ per month), for international best practice. Per minute charge
(2.66c/minute), seems, on the other hand, quite in line with many international cases. As a result, Maroc
Telecom still needs to reduce charges for international services, if it wants to compete. It is expected that,
with the privatization of Maroc Telecom, and the introduction of competition, tariffs for international
services could be lowered as much as 50%.
~N 2.1             2.1           1.05            2.1            1.84
0.011 1i l4   71  0.71        0.92           0.71           0.76
0.69      ~0.21           1.01           0.22           0.53
0.50           0.50           0.50           0.50           0.50
X bS WW   m 0.94  1.09        0.94           0.94           0.98
Sources: Morocco: IAM; France: France Telecom; The Netherlands: KPN, Italy: Infostrada; Spain: Telefonica.
Tariffs in the segment of leased lines deserve specific attention, as they are the single most
important constraint/enabler to market development for Internet and advanced services, through their
impact on the input prices of Internet Service Providers and telecommunications-intensive services (e.g.
call centres).
Lease lines prices in Morocco are expensive, although some reduction was recently experienced.
In general, while the price of 64kbps connections are in line with European benchmarks, it is the price of
2Mbps that shows Morocco's delay, as shown by the following table.
Information Technology. The IT sector is growing quickly in Morocco but remains under-developed
with respect to its potential. Value-added in IT manufacturing increased from 0.35 percent of GDP in
1995 to 0.44 percent in 1998. Internet penetration remains very low with only about 35 hosts per 1
million inhabitants, due to the high price of leased lines. 1 Reportedly, there are about 60 Web Sites
offering Moroccan products and services on line. E-commerce sites are hosted either in Morocco or
outside the country, but the payments are still exclusively processed abroad. The total turnover of these
firms is estimated at about US$5-10 million..
In the years 1994-1995, Morocco produced about 0.2% of GDP in IT, of which 0.12% in
hardware. Software and services are therefore not more than 0.08%-0.1% of GDP. This is low compared
to Southern European countries (0.76% in Greece, 1.11% in Portugal), and emerging economies
(Malaysia, India and Brazil). IT in Morocco has been estimated by local industry associations to be lower
than 300 M USD per year (end 1999). Of this we can assume that at least 50% is equipment related and
no more than 140-150 M USD is software and services. Morocco remains a net importer of IT equipment,
1    A recent WB study in Morocco, "Souces of Growth" (WB2000), confirms the strong potential for the
development of advanced information services in Morocco , but also highlight the limits of the current legal and
regulatory regime and the need for policy actions in the sector. The limited availability of choice of network
providers constitutes a serious bottleneck for IT growth, because there are no competitive pressures on the historical
operator to provide prompt service or offer lower prices in this segment of the telecommunications market.



Annex IV
Page 4 of 9
as IT imports over the period exceeded US$100 million per year. Employment figures have remained
relatively stable over the period: the sector is absorbing between 7,000 and 7,500 people, which
represents about 1.6% of total employees in industrial sectors.
PCs per 10,000 inhabitants are estimated to have increased from 17 in 1995 to about 107 in
19992. As concerns services, the IT sector shows ample room for improvement. For example, the number
of internet hosts and subscribers remain low (only 2,030 hosts, and 160 internet subscribers per million
inhabitants).
(')ITU; ("*) Ministry of industry and Comnmerce; Banque Marocaine du Commerce ExtieSure; (}) SEPTI.
Morocco's performance in the IT sector is behind main regional and global competitors, as far as
the main measures of performance are concerned (PC and Internet diffusion, training in ICT), and shows
a dramatic need for improvement. On a positive note, the private sector might be reactive to
improvements in Internet connectivity and human resources upgrades. This is witnessed by the emergence
of highly dynamic and innovative Small and Medium Enterprises in the ICT sector, in particular, in the
sectors of software development, provision of IT services and digital content creation. The turnover of
these firms is not such to influence, yet, the performance of the ICT sector as a percentage of GDP.
HIowever, the expected benefits from telecommunications liberalization on the performance of these
highly innovative SMEs might produce considerable results in the medium term.
lI l. ll iill Nurbr of K;    Edimu$e      Mbr of hst       ;SW4nsi h  bd,b
"~~~~e lO le lw                         pe po   "  Wfa     n
l!~~~~iaJat l~          pe W0|bC    kihbitnt C)O'  _cec s per 1OOOtX
035%      036        044Y        NA 0.180.72
9         56.4 i     4 S   2111.53    NA
715.0    74 2 743              N        NA
2 These figures probably underestimate the growth rate as they do not reflect the fact that many PCs are introduced
in the countries through "tax free" ports, and excluded by of ficial statistics.



Annex IV
Page 5 of 9
Postal Sector.
Sector: The postal sector in Morocco has been steadily growing over the past four years (1995-1999).
The share of postal revenues, however, in relation to the country's GDP has only risen from less than
0.2% in 1993 to 0.3% in 1999, remaining far below international benchmarks which show that the postal
sector generally represents more than 1% of GDP. While overall employment in the sector has inc:reased
by 14 % during this period, it is largely due to the emergence of other actors in the postal market (DHL,
UPS, FedEx) as BAM has actually decreased its staff to 8,832 employees at the end of 1999, representing
a 3% decrease since 1995. The absolute growth in revenues is much higher than the growth in traffic
(letter mail, parcels) which has been more modest (about 10 % growth for all products since 1994). The
average number of letter mail items per inhabitant is still less than 8 and has stagnated over the last years.
The number of permanent post offices was 1,498 in 1999, an increase of 7 % since 1995, and while all of
these offices accept financial transactions, only 654 or 44% actually offer the full range of postal seirvices.
Moroccdo Sas   ; Pstal Indicators ;1995V:                          1996     S1997   001998 1fiuf::19I999tO7
Total postal revenues i( S millIon)   t82.5                        73.8        88       87.1      100.8
Postal    CotP:000000 revenues as a%0000 of0000000X0000;000000 GOP  .25%  .20%  .26%    .29%      .29%
Total opertinganad; Invostment expenditures (US$ miion)  109.5  99.7      92.5      83.9       99.4
Proitis or losses (revenues less expenditures) (US$ millin)   -27  -25.9      *4.4       3.2       1.4
Total numbe3r ofpostal staff                           9,075      8,699       9,064     9,787     8.832
No. finitantsprpostli e     o                          2,987      3,175       2,978     2,838     3,170
Number of e        ofc                                  1,401      1,425      1,454     1,469     1.498
Av;gaW     ce     apemann toffice (km2D    319                     313         307       304       298
Averagenumt,erofinhabItatseer0edbype:rmh: ottoff   t   19,350     19,382      18,782    18,910    18,851
Number of letter boxes (mallboxes)        D:3,080                  3,234      3,397     3,564     3,737
A0:veagenofdeliv rIeser 4ayinuraarxas 0 0002                        2           2         1         1
kveragno.ofdvetiesperweekItt ruralarea:5                 5          5         5          5
% of population havinge mall deliveredat home           80%        66%        64%       65%       65%
%pta   wht           aldelvery                          4%          6%         6%        15%       15%
v nibeof ltr-post I    dpe inhabitant            7.57       7.53       7.76       7.72      7,91
Endof yeara&stInpostalsavngs acoounrt (USsl0lI         396.6       477.9      512.8     582.5     592.9
End Of eair"ais In post ia ch gccounts  tllon)         518.1       489.6      461.1     480.1     575.9
Source: UPU, BAM
Public operator: The current public operator, Barid Al Maghrib (BAM) created in 1998 with the '4-96
law, operates a comprehensive transportation, delivery and retail outlet network, as well as basic financial
services through the Caisse d'Epargne Nationale (CEN), the Comptes-Cheques Postaux (CCP) and
money transfers services. Besides traditional mail services, BAM  has recently developed hybrid offers
integrating telecommunications and IT solutions.
Mail activities: Concerning the mail services, the monopoly is defined by a 1924 law and includes lItters
and parcels up to lkg. Private participation in postal business covers the rest of the market. Only recently
have the international couriers and express services been opened to competition (24-96 law of 1997). The
potential for expanding the range of available services to more customers is enormous, especially for
business. At this time though, BAM holds an extremely weak position on the parcel sector and is focusing
most of its efforts in trying to prepare for the e-commerce era.
Postal financial activities: The postal financial services account for approximately 30% of total postal
revenues and include checking and saving accounts, wire transfers. BAM is the only financial network
that provide basic financial services to rural populations. Recently, BAM has develop partnerships with
private entities such as Wafabank and Wafassurance to distribute in its network more diversified products



Annex IV
Page 6 of 9
like pension insurance, personal insurance, consumption credit... It has also started a partnership with
Western Union for electronic international money wire transfers which is a great success.
Postal network and rural presence: Postal services are offered through a network of 1500 outlets that
covers the entire country. According to its management, BAM offers access to services to the entire
population, but the definition of "access" needs to be addressed since it doesn't mean necessarily a daily,
door-to-door collection and delivery. In comparison with other countries, the density of the Moroccan
network appears weak. However, BAM explores ways of delegating the provision of postal services in
rural areas to private agents in order to improve postal accessibility.
No. of   Average area Average no, No. of  Average no.  Average no. % of pop. Averpg. no.
Inhab. per  covered by a of inhab.    letter  of deliveries  of deiveres  wthout of leteir-post
postal    permanent  Served by   boxes   per day In   per week in   postal  Items posted
employee  office (Wn2) perm. office       urban areas  rural areas   delivery  per inhab.
Morocco      2,838       304        18,910    3,564       1           5        15%        7.7
TunisiaW     1,104        173       9,736    2,900        1           6         0%        NA
Egypt        1,692       134        8,811    21,412      2            6         1%        3.3
Turkey        NA          46        3,736    40,269       1           1         0%        16.3
Chias        2,247       1,066      20,873    1108        1          NA         0%       23.2
Malaysia      790        239        7,489     4,538       1           6         0%        96
Portugal      604         25        2,659    18,621       1           5         0%       117.3
Ireland       428         37        1,935     5,400       1           S         0%       170.2
Source: UPU 1998, *1997 data
Financial results : BAM has been profitable since its creation in 1998, with 56 MnsDH that year, 95
MnsDH in 1999 and 125 MnsDH in 2000.
B. Reforms achieved under the TPI-SAL
In the last three years, GOM has launched a program of sector policy reforms in
telecommunications, post and IT, supported by the World Bank Group, first through the TPI-SAL and
later through the preparation of the proposed IISDL. The policy reforms focused on a first stage of
fostering competition and strengthening the regulatory framework in telecommunications, while laying
the groundwork for further developments in information technology and postal services. A new law on
Post and Telecommunications was promulgated in August 1997 (hereafter Law 24-96), which completely
overhauled previous rules and provides Morocco with a modern legal framework for the sector. Law 24-
96 separates post from telecommunications, replacing the Office National des Postes et
Telecommunications (ONPT) with two new entities: a joint stock company, LAM, providing
telecommunications services, and a public body, BAM, providing postal services. A decree from the
Prime Minister creates the Secretariat charge de la poste et des nouvelles technologies de l'Information
(SEPTI).
Telecommunications. In addition to the changes mentioned above, Law 24-96 creates an autonomous
regulatory  agency  for  telecommunications,  I'Agence  Nationale  de  Reoglementation        des
Telecommunications (ANRT), the first of its kind in Morocco. Law 24-96 enables competition in all
segments of the telecommunications market. Other measures have also been adopted to promote market
liberalization in the telecommunications sector. First, the Government's offer to the World Trade
Organization (WTO) on basic telecommunications services, commits to liberalizing all
telecommunications services by 2002. Second, ANRT has started to elaborate specific regulations, which
will be crucial if effective competition is to materialize in the sector. Third, the law strengthens



Annex IV
Page 7 of 9
competition in the teleconmmunications sector, even for fixed telephony, by allowing altenative
infrastructures (Al) e.g. electricity or railways infrastructures, to be used for purposes other than -hose
originally intended. including the provision of telecommunications services.3  In addition to the
promotion of a competitive telecommunications sector, these measures facilitate the development of IT
related activities, as they provide the basis for the development of a modern broadband network..
Pro-competitive policy reforms have already started to bear fruits. In August 1999, the Moroccan
Government awarded a second license for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), throu gh an
international competitive tender. All bidders in their proposals offered to commit to quality, coverag- and
tariffs that would result in major service improvement and growth. The winning bidder was Medi
Telecom, a consortium of Telefonica Internacional of Spain, Telecom Portugal, and Moroccan inves;tors.
Medi Telecom paid about US$1.1 billion for the fifteen-year license, one of the highest prices ever paid
for a mobile license relative to population size. The license was particularly appealing to investors
because, in addition to the usual features of a mobile license, it conferred particular embedded n ghts,
which mitigated the risks posed by initial market dominance of LAM. The issuance of the license anti the
process that led to its allocation also signaled the determination of ANRT to introduce effe ztive
competition.
Other licenses have been issued as well. In November 1999, Orbcomm was selected as the
winner of a public tender for a Global Mobile Personal Communication System (GMPCS) license for data
transmission. The Government also launched in December 1999 international competitive biddings for
two types of licenses: three licenses enabling operators to provide value added services through a Very
Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) and two GMPCS licenses, covering voice as well as data transmis:,ion.
As a result of these biddings, the Government granted the three VSAT licenses in May 2000 to Space
Com S.A., Gulfsat Maghreb and Argos SA., and one GMPCS license in June 2000 to TESAM Maroc
Comparisons with international benchmarks show that the historical operator, IAM, has m ade
significant progress in realigning prices with costs, although further rebalancing is needed for Morocc:o to
compete effectively with the EU and other commercial partners. Prices of international services ilave
decreased for most destinations: over the period 1988-1998 and the price of calls to North America and
Europe has been halved. Nevertheless, international comparisons (see Annex IV) show that the co;,t of
international calls in Morocco is still 2.2 to 4.4 higher than European benchmarks. On the other hand, the
price of local calls has progressively increased, from 0.12 DH to 0.27 DH per minute, a level that is quite
in line with many other countries, although the monthly fee is still low (US$ 7-9 per month). In addition
to this rebalancing of tariffs for local and long distance calls, IAM has dramatically reduced prices in
cellular telephony during the last months, partly as a response of the historical operator to the compet itive
pressures brought about by the new entrant in the cellular market. As a result, Morocco's prices for
cellular telephony are now in line with international prices.
Information Technology. The Government adopted an ambitious action plan for the development of IT,
developed and presented to Parliament by SEPTI, soon after its creation in 1998. This plan included the
following objectives: (a) diffusion of information technologies within the Public Administration through
the enhancement of existing If equipment and networks, the development of e-government and the
training of skilled IT human resources among civil servants; (b) promotion of Information Technologies
3A study commissioned by ANRT in 1999 (Jeantet 1999) confirmed the viability, within the existing legal
framework, of using Al for telecommunications services, while suggesting some amendments that could further
promote Al development. Another study by DevotechConseil (1999) found that several potential providers of U in
Morocco (such as ONCF, ONE, ADM and Lydec) have available excess capacity and are interested in enterin., the
wholesale telecommunications market.



Annex IV
Page 8 of 9
among enterprises, in order to strengthen their competitiveness in the global markets; (c) diffusion of
information technologies in basic education, in the valorization of cultural heritage and in scientific
research; (d) the development of a modem and reliable information infrastructure; (e) the development of
an adequate regulatory environment; (f) the development of Internet and electronic commerce.
Implementation of this plan has started with the development of two key areas electronic commerce and
inter-Administration networks, where two inter-agency commnissions were established and produced
specific recommendations on the regulatory framework.
Postal Sector: In addition to the separation of telecommunications and postal activities carried out by the
Law 24-96 and the creation of a distinct postal operator - BAM -, the 24-96 Law opened the market for
international courier services to competition. BAM's new management has successfully started a wide
range of operational improvements, laying the groundwork for further modernization and market
development. With respect to the postal financial services, the 24-96 Law mandated the reintegration
within the newly created BAM of the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne (CEN), -- a postal savings institution
created in 1959 -- and considerably limited CEN's financial autonomy. In fact this law represents a
reversal of a course towards increased financial independence of CEN, which had been established in
legislation approved in 1992. The law of 1992 allowed CEN greater leeway in investing its own net
worth and in offering financial services - including credit. However, this law was never applied and was
abrogated by the 24-96 Law. The latest legislation, however, gives BAM room to negotiate partnerships
or launch joint venture, and BAM has signed commercial agreement with private financial institutions to
offer several types of financial services (including, insurance products and consumer credit).
While the postal network is a vehicle for a wider penetration of banking services throughout the
population, the mobilization of these resources towards the financing of investment activities is limited.
Concerning CCP, BAM must transfer all its clients deposits to the Treasury that pays in return an interest
rate of 4% on the average amount of deposits. Concerning CEN activities, BAM must deposit all its
excess cash flows, by law, at the Caisse des Dep8ts et Gestion (CDG), a national savings bank which also
collects money from social security and invests most of it in Treasury bonds. Recently the relationship
between CDG and BAM/CEN has been modified, and a dedicated "internal mutual fund" (or segregated
portfolio), whose yield is indexed on a market interest rate, has been isolated in CDG for CEN.
CEN/BAM has a seat on the management committee of the fund, and can more directly determine
placement choices. The authorities consider this modification as a first step towards a more complete
liberalization of CEN's investment capacity.
C. Lessons Learned from implementation of the TPI-SAL
The reforms supported by the TPI-SAL have been an unmitigated success, as shown by the
exceptional growth of the mobile market, the increased contribution of telecommunications to GDP
growth and employment creation and by the high institutional credibility and reputation quickly gained by
ANRT. This success was mainly due to three factors: 1. the focus on enabling sector-wide competition
through the vehicle of a strong wireless competitor; 2. the support to the independence and capacity
building of the regulator; and 3. the stress on open and transparent tender procedures for the tender for the
second GSM operator.
Some lessons arose from the implementation of the TPI-SAL project:
1. The success of the GSM transaction had a wide demonstration effect. Privatization of Maroc
Telecom accelerated pace; privatization and reform in other sectors accelerated as well. Mobile
sector reform was initiated by other countries of the region, like Algeria and Mauritania. These



Annex IV
Page 9 of 9
countries drew on the example, experience and expertise of ANRT to conduct mobile tende rs and
initiate sector reform.
2. Results were mainly achieved in the areas where the competitive threat was more present. This
emphasizes the importance of competition, to achieve reorganization of the incumbent operator
and accelerate sector reform.
3. The design of a public policy for universal access in telecommunications, post and IT was slower
than expected. Progress achieved in this area was mainly due to market developments, such as
GSM growth, while public sector initiatives, such as the development of pilot projects fo:r rural
access, were not undertaken.
4. Reform in post and information technology proved to be much slower and less effective. than
telecommunications reform. The implementation of the Government's approach, to develop the
three sectors as a unique, convergent, Information Infrastructure sector, requires two changes: (a)
the need to place more political will, resources and commitment in the areas of informnation
technology and post; (b) the need to advance, where possible, convergent policies for the three
sectors (a good example is the inclusion of multimedia and broadcasting as services that can be
offered over telecommunications networks).



Annex V
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX V
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
To monitor the impact of the reform program and agree, if needed, on corrective measures,
the following set of indicators will be jointly monitored by the Government and tie Bank.
Target              Indicator                Measure        |      1999       |   2000   |  2001   |   2002           2003
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Innovation     Internet Users             Number of dial up and dedicated  80,000   200,000     400,000     700,000    1,000,000
lines customers
Access         Percentage of the          Percentage of the population   75%          90%         92%         94%         96%
population with access to a   living in a locality with access to
phone (fixed, cellular,   a phone
payphones)
Total Number of Lines
Number of lines outside 2                               860,000     905,550     940,000      975,000    1,010,000
main cities/                                              I,I ,,,
Price          Price of international calls    Price of a 3 minutes phone call  1.56  1.42        1.14        0.56        0.28
to Paris "Plein Tariffs"
Price in US$ of           Price of a 2 M/month
international leased lines (2                           32,000       25000        8000        4000        2000
Mbps* month) to London    __I
Quality        Fault Rate                 Number of faults per 100 lines  33          24.8         20          16          12
per year                  I_I_I
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
Sector         Volume of electronic       Revenue of domestically     N.A          5           10          20          50
Development   transactions                generated and processed e-
(e-commerce)                              commerce transactions (US $
____________   ____________________ m illions
Efficiency     Percentage of the public   Percentage of the employees of   0%      0%          1%          2%           10%
administration connected    the Public Administration
through Inter-            connected to Inter-
Administration Networks    Admninistration networks.
POSTAL SECTOR
Target        Market        Indicator              Measure            1999        2000        2001         2002        2003
L__________ Sement                 _          
Business       Letter mail,  traffic volume      Yearly increase      0.72%        6.04%       2 %         2 %         2 %
development  (domestic,   letter mail            per inhabitant
: Usage of     standard)                                                           20%
postal                        traffic volume     Yearly increase      24%                      20%         20%         20%
services                      national express
Business       Financial      Volume of          Yearly increase in  7%            7%          10%          10%         10%
Developmen   services         savings deposits  total deposits
t:Savings
mobilization                                                                _                              _
Quality of     Letter mail   Reliability of      % delivered on       53%          53%         65%         70%          80%
services                      delivery time      day 2 (from end
to end)
Access to      Postal and    Country wide        Number of postal
services       financial      access of          counters per
services      population to       10,000
services           inhabitants:
-in urban areas     0.89         0.89        0.91         0.95        1.00
-in rural areas     0.84         0.84        0.87         0.89        0.92
Productivity    Global        Value added per   Annual increase    NA (*)          1.390/o     -1.95%      2.94%        3.41%
_        employee                                                          (*__)
Investment    Overall         Volume of          Volume of net        100,600      87,618      206,927    168,000    210,250
investments        Investments                                   (***)
(Thousands of
DH)



Annex V
Page 2 of 3
Notes: *Since Barid Al-Maghrib was created in February 1998, its first fiscal year counted actually 10
months, making it irrelevant to compare it with 1999.
**: This decrease is due to the creation of a separate subsidiary --joint venture with Chronopost S.A.-- tor
international express mail delivery (since very few BAM employees were shifted to the new subsidiary), and
to the decrease in the volume of IAM's transactions handled at BAM's counters since the separation of the
two entities, as the number of IAM offices steadily increased.
***: 2001 investments actually cover: 100 067 KDH for 2001 modernization projects and 106 860 KDH bor
projects started in 2000 and earlier.
Faults Ratio. Faults per line per year is the first measure of the quality and reliability of t'ne
network. Investment and regulatory effort should be placed to progressively reduce faults
enhancing quality of service.
Traffic volume (letter mail and express mail -Poste Rapide Nationale, PRN-): Those
indicators (fed by the "532 statistic" tool which methodology is being currently reviewed) aims at
the assessment of the postal market volume, its different segments and their growth. The mail
volume in Morocco (less than 8 letters per head per year) offers an important growth potential. Tihe
main operator, BAM, can be a motor of the market growth by providing good quality of service at
affordable prices and by using marketing tools. The yearly increase of items per capita reflects a
growing usage of postal services. There is in many cases a clear correlation between econonmic
growth and the growth of postal traffic (in the German case the relation for many years was the
following: if GDP increased by 1%, letter mail volumes increased by O..5%). Even in most of the
mature postal markets (OECD countries) where electronic substitution plays an important role,
letter mail volumes still grow; in the US the letter volume of USPS grew in 1999 by 2.4%. In
Morocco, the letter mail growth objective of 2% appears cautious considering the fact that the
direct marketing segment offers important potentials. The express mail (PRN) objective is more
ambitious and reflects the objective pursued by the operator BAM to position itself on a segment
that offers stronger added-value potentials.
Postal Savings: volume of savings deposits: This indicator aims at the assessment of the
development of the core financial services that are offered via the postal network. The growth
projection initially very ambitious have recently been re-estimated and decreased to take into
account the slow actual growth of 1999 and 2000. It has been proven in other countries, however,
that savings mobilization via the postal retail outlets can exceed the market trend.
Reliability of delivery: This indicator aims at the assessment of the improvement in quality 3f
service with regard to domestic letter mail. It refers rather to reliability than to speed. From the
customers' point of view, reliability (meaning that a letter really gets delivered by the 3rd day - j-+2
- after being put into the system) is even more important than speed (normally defined in terns of
next day delivery, D+1). The measurement of speed/reliability should be directed at end-to-end
relations (de bout en bout), i.e. from the sender to the receiver of a letter. As a reference point, the
modem postal systems in Europe offer up to 99% D+2, and >90% D+1. Hence, coming from a
modest level of 55% D+2, significant improvements can be expected in the Moroccan postal sector.
Country wide access of population to services: This indicator is supposed to measure to what
extent postal services are provided to the whole country and to all inhabitants. The access to postal
services must not necessarily be provided by stationary retail outlets that are staffed with postal
employees; it can take different forms (postal agencies, stamps sales points with licensed agents,
automatic machines...). Today, no accessibility criteria clearly exists in Morocco. Such a criteria
refers to distance and frequency that remain to be determined. The mid-term objective in the
medium term should clearly be near 100%.



Annex V
Page 3 of 3
Added value per employee: This indicator aims at the assessment of the productivity
improvement. With better personnel training, increase use of information technology, postal
activities diversification, the productivity should increase rapidly in the coming years.
Added value = production (= sales +/- stocks variations) - intermediary consumptions.
Investments: This indicators allows to appreciate BAM's effort to prepare for competition on new
services and products, as well as to consolidate its core postal activities.
Other Indicators in preparation:
Extent of market liberalization: This indicator aims at assessing the opening of the postal market
and the actual significance of private participation. The 24-96 Law of 1997 liberalized the
international express business and 5 licenses have been granted. Market liberalization is normally
measured with regard to weight or price limits (for example liberalization of letter mail items
weighting more than 200 grams or letters beyond a specific price threshold).Liberalization is only
meaningful if it is related to market segments that are attractive for private competitors. An ideal
liberalization path would include steps like opening the direct mail business or the parcel market for
competition. Complete liberalization only exists in a few countries (e.g. Finland, Sweden, New
Zealand, Argentina), but many countries have liberalized the parcel and direct mail markets, a
useful orientation could be the EU guideline (350 grams limit). Today, BAMs market share is 8%
of the international express (volume). The indicator selected to measure the extent of this
liberalization could be the share of the private participants in the postal sector in the total revenues
generated by the sector. Targets will be an increase of 1% per year in this share.
Postal network accessibility: This indicator is one of the criteria of the universal service and
should be defined on the basis of different factors, like physical or temporal distances that separate
the users from a point of postal service, whatever its form is.



Annex VI
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX VI
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE REFORMS
The reforms undertaken by the Government of Morocco since 1998 have an impact (fn
telecommunications and IT sector structure, affecting its fiscal performance, in terms of static and
dynamic fiscal gains and losses. This Annex estimates overall impact of reforms and the main
hypotheses and assumptions are presented at the end. The time period considered in this analysis
is 1998-2003. Values are discounted in 1998 USD.
Discussion of main fiscal impacts
1. Award of a GSM license to MediTelecom: the award of the license brought about 1 1
Bn USD to the State Budget.
2. Privatization of IAM: the privatization of LAM brought 2.1 Bn. US$ to the State Budget
in 2001, through the sale of a 35% share to a strategic investor. The model assumes that
another 2.1 Bn. US$, through an Initial Public Offer of 25% of IAM capital in 2002.
3. Investment in the Administration on Line Initiative: the Moroccan Government needs
over 200 M USD to complete the "Administration on Line" initiative. The presented
scenario assumes investment of 5 M USD in 2001 and of 100 M USD in 2002 and 2003.
4. Proceeds from other licenses: liberalization of telecommunications will bring additional
revenues in form of proceeds from VSAT, data and alternative infrastructure licenses.
These license fees are assumed to bring 10 M USD in 2001 and 50 M USD in 2002. Aft; r
that, when full liberalization will take place, the Morocco will opt for a class license or
authorization regime, at no initial fee for the license holder.
5. Dephasing of the Monopoly Tax: before liberalization, the Moroccan Government was
earning a 10% Monopoly Tax on the gross revenues of the incumbent operator. This tax
is being progressively phased out, according to the following schedule.
Year           11998       1999       2000       2001       2002
Monopoly Tax   8%          6%         4%         2%         0%
If applied at its original 10% rate, the monopoly tax would earn the Moroccan
government about 80 M USD of annual fiscal revenues. The progressive dephasing of the
monopoly tax will reduce this revenues in the period 1998-2003 by about 290 M US1-),
or, about 241 M USD in net present value.
6. Additional Fiscal Contribution: competition enlarges the telecommunications market.
Incumbent operator and new competitor increase their revenues and pay more taxes,
through direct and indirect taxation. The additional fiscal contribution is calculated
estimating the difference between the expected rate of growth of the telecommunications
sector in presence of competition, with respect to the historic growth rate. The additional
fiscal contribution for the years 2000-2003 amount to about 286 M USD.
7. Universal Access Contributions: Terms of Reference of MediTelecom provided for the
payment of 4% of gross revenues for the contribution to the Universal Service Fund and
for RDT expenditures. IAM will be exempt from paying the Universal Service
contribution till 2003. Assuming that the same obligation will be imposed on all market
players, this will bring up to 68 M USD in revenues in the years 2000-2003.



Annex VI
Page 2 of 3
The following table and graph indicate that the cumulative fiscal impact of reforms in
real terms exceeds 3.5 Bn. USD for the period 1998-2003.
Year                                           1998         1999      2000       2001        2002       2003
Removal of Monopoly Tax                         8%           6%         4%         2%         0%         0%
Award of GSM License to MediTelecom                        1035                                 0
Sale of IAM to Strategic Investor                                                2100           0
IPO of [AM                                                                                   1800
Administration on Line Investment                                                  -50       -150       -150
Proceeds from licenses                                                              10         50          0
IAM Revenues (LT)                               766         858        896        955       1,013      1,078
IAM GSM Revenues (LT)                            92          122       147         172        193        212
[AM Revenues with GSM2 and 2002 liberalization                         896       1,079      1,231      1,379
Revenue enlargement effect on lAM                                        0         124        218        301
MonopolyTaxat10%                                 77          86         90          95        101        108
Fiscal Loss -Dephasing Monopoly Tax                          -17        -36        -52        -77       -108
MediTelecom Revenues                                                    87        341         503        653
Other Operators Revenues                                                                       35         70
Overall Enlargement Effect                                               87        465        756      1,024
Additional fiscal contribution                                        24.36      130.2     211.68     286.72
Market Size with liberalization                                        983       1,420      1,769      2,102
Universal Access Contributions                                         3.48      13.64      21.52      28.92
Fisoal Impact                                     0        1,018         -8      2,152      1,856         58
Fiscal Impact NPV                                           970          -7       1859       1527         45
Cumulative fiscal impact NPV                      0         970        962       2821        4348       4393
Fluxes NPV                                                  -17          -8        42           6         58
Cumulative Fluxes NPV                             0          -17       -25          17         23         81
An alternative way to present the fiscal impact of sector reform would be to look at the
fiscal fluxes only (regular annual fluxes of revenues and costs to the State budget), without the
non-annual license proceeds, a one-off revenue for the State. If we adopt this approach, short term
fiscal losses arise up to the end of 1999, and are offset by fiscal gains by end 2000.
Cumulative Fiscal Impact NPV
zooo                                           -cruah NW |    mpS'':
4000   I. '
3SDO                 'D 
3000
8   l    11 ll  . t  <      ei. --   -  Cuniulatlbescal impac
:2000         ll|                                   P
600
19    1999   200    2001   2002   2003
eYer



Annex VI
Page 3 of 3
HYPOTHESES
4 Value IAM=6.0 billion USD;
v Sale of 35% share of the capital of IAM to strategic investor in 2001;
: IPO premium of 20% over private sale price of IAM;
* 25% of IAM capital floated in [PO in 2002;
4 4% revenue of all telecom operators for Universal Access Fund;
+: Overall fiscal burden is 28% gross revenues (VAT+Profit tax);
4 Discount rate =5%; 1998 USD;
4 Universal Access Fund is considered fiscal revenue for the Government;
4 Dividend policy of IAM unchanged;
*: The effect of competition on overall sector profitability is assumed constant;
4 Historic sector growth rate is assumed at 7.5%;
: Meditelecom is assumed to be able to capture 50% of new GSM subscribers after 1 year of
operation;
* Average Revenue per User (ARPU) for GSM= constant until 1999, decreasing 2 USD-month
afterwards;
* ARPU FL= Linear Trend;
4 GSM market size in December 2002: 5,000,000 subscribers.
L IAM additional revenues from data, Internet and leased lines are assumed zero (conservative
assumption);
* No indirect effect (e.g. stimulus to growth) arises from removal of the monopoly tax
(conservative assumption);
* Positive Network Externality on FL Network: None (conservative assumption).



Annex VII
Page I of I
ANNEX VII
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                 20 months
(identification to negotiations)
Prepared by:                           Government, ANRT and World Bank staff
Identification mission departure:      July 19, 1999
Regional Operation Committee:          March 30, 2000
Appraisal mission departure:           May 16, 2000
Negotiations:                          March 26-30, 2001
Board Presentation:                    May 31st, 2001
Planned date of Effectiveness:         September 2001
Closing Date:                          December 31st, 2001



Annex VIII
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX VIII
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of Date 4/1/2001
Closed
Projects
Active Prolects                                                                                                                      Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                  Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating b'                       Orloinal Amount In USS Millions       Disbursements'
Project ID  Project Name                          Development   Implementation  Fiscal Year   IBRD      IDA  GRANT  Cancel. Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
P042414   COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                          S               S            1996         28       0       0        0       9.4      3.9         0
P005525   HEALTH MANAGEMENT                            S               S            1999         66       0       0        0       54      36.7        0.5
P005499  IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                          S               S            1994         25       0       0       9.9      3.7      15         2.7
P005519   LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                         S               U            1999          4       0       0        0       3.7     1.4          0
P063918   LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT               S               S            2000        5.3       0       0        0       5.2     0.3          0
P005524   FES/MEDINAREHAB.                             S               S            1999         14       0       0        0      11.3     7.6          0
P048314   PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT                   S               U            2000          0       0     10.5       0       9.3       0          0
P005489   SECONDARY ROADS                              S               S            1995       57.6       0       0        0      14.5    21.7         3.3
P005523   MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                         U               S            1998         70       0       0        0      22.1      28          0
P052247   PILOT FISHERIES DEV.                         U               S            1999          5       0       0        0       3.9      1.6         0
P038978   PSD III-VOC TRG.                            HU               U            1997         23       0       0        0      12.3    13.6         7.1
P043725   RAILWAY RESTR& PRIV                          S               S            1997         85       0       0        0      61.8    43.5          0
P040566   RURALW.S.&SANITATN                           S               S            1998         10       0       0        0       4.5     5.3        -0.4
P005503   SEW.& WATER REUSE II                         U               U            1996         40       0       0        0      30.3    18.5          0
P005501   SPF - EDUCATION                              S               S            1996         54       0       0        0      30.6    12.8         0.7
P042415   SPI - HEALTH                                 S               S            1996         68       0       0        0       14      -1.5         0
P065757   SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM DEVT.            S               S            2000        2.2       0       0        0       2.2     0.4          0
P005521   WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                         S               S            1998         20       0       0        0      16.1     7.4          0
P005435   WATER SUPPLY V                               S               S            1994        160       0       0       71      19.1    90.7         9.3
Overall Result                                                                     Result     737.1       0     10.5    80.9   328.2   306.7          23.2
Active Prolects   Closed Proiects   Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                            278.2           6,647.9    6,926.1
of which has been repaid                               8.05          4,363.5    4,371.6
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                -                -    2,863.6
Amount sold                                                   -             20.1       20.1
of which repaid                                           -             20.1       20.1
Total Undisbursed                                          319              10.9      329.8
a. Intended disbursements to dale minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactoy, HU = Highly
Unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology ( SecM94-901), August 23, 1994
Data includes one guarantee (Jort Lasfar)



Annex VIII
Page 2 of 2
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Morocco
Morocco
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
As of Date 4/1/2001
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval   Company             Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
1995          Attijari               0.0    0.5    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.5    0.0   0.0
1990          ENNASR                 0.5    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.5    0.0    0.0   0.0
1994/96       Mediafinance           0.0    1.2   0.0   0.0    0.0    1.2   0.0   0.0
1999          Settavex               0.0    9.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    9.0    0.0   0.0
2000          Maghreb Invest P       0.0    5.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    1.3   0.0   0.0
2001          Medi Telecom          66.4    0.0  22.1  310.1   66.4    0.0  22.1  310.1
Total Portfolio:         66.9   15.6  22.1  310.1   66.9   11.9  22.1  310.1
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic



Annex IX
Page 1 of 3
Annex IX
Morocco Key Economic Indicators
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product at market pricesa                100  100  100  100  100        100  100  100   L00  100  100
Agriculture                                          19%  15%  19%  15%  17%         15%  13%  16%  15%  15%  15%
Industry                                             31%  33%  31%  33%  32%        33%  33%  32%  '-2%  32%  32%
Services                                             51%  52%  50%  52%  51%        53%  54%  52%  53%  53%  53%
Total Consumption                                        85   86   84   83   82         80   82   82   81   80   80
Gross domestic fixed investment                        20.7  21.4   19   21   22        24   24   24   25   25   25
Government investment                                  3.6  3.7    3    3    3         3    4    4    4    3    3
Private investment                                    17.8  17.0   17   17   20       21   21   21   22   22   22
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                                          25   27   26   28   28         30   31   32   33   33   34
Imports (GNFS)                                           31   34   30   32   32         34   38   38   38   39   39
Gross domestic savings                                   15   14   16   17   18         20    18   18   19   20   20
Gross national savingsc                                  19   17   19   20   22         23   23   23   24   24   25
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                                3035232985366393341435667   34998 33481 35471 37407 39525 41843
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP percapita (US$, Atlas method)                      1170 1120 1290 1250 1250    1190 1250 1270 1250 1280 1340
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices               10.4  -6.6  12.2  -2.2  6.8    -0.7  0.8   8.0  3.4  3.6  3.8
Gross Domestic Income                                  7.5  -3.8  12.9  -1.1  10.7    -0.5  -2.0  8.7  3.6  4.0  4.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from
1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices                8.4  -8.2  10.3  -3.9  5.0    -2.3  -0.9  6.2   1.7  1.9  2.2
Total consumption                                     10.0  -6.7  9.5  -4.3  6.8    -3.8  -1.8  6.6  0.8   1.9  2.3
Private consumption                                   12.6  -7.0  10.5  -5.7  7.3    -5.6  -0.9  4.8  2.5  2.9  2.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                                       7555 9044 9629 9510 9970   10648 10495 11185 12259 13200 14172
Merchandise FOB                                    5541 6871 6886 7039 7144    7514 7297 7647 8343 8941 9561
Imports (GNFS)b                                      937711243108621062711425   11964 12652 13396 14378 15317 16340
Merchandise FOB                                    7648 9353 9080 8903 9463    9956 10597 11191 12006 12782 13630



Annex IX
Page 2 of 3
Resource balance                                   -1822 -2199 -1233 -1117 -1455   -1317 -2157 -2211 -2119 -2117 -2167
Net current transfers                              2270 2330 2576 2205 2345   2137 2408 2474 2478 2535 2589
Current account balance, incl. grants              -723 -1186   35  -87 -144    -156 -498 -537 -418 -409 -432
Net private foreign direct investment                  .. 320  327 1071  313      839  103 2632  980  975  970
Long-term loans (net)                              -293 -184  -68 -736 -186   -437 -111  -378 -707 -644 -251
Official                                          -430 -287  -13 -816 -455    -226 -535  162   94  174  146
Private                                            138  103  -55   80  269    -212  425 -540 -801  -818 -398
Other capital (net, incl. errors & omrnissions)       ..  67   -2  305  264    1393   97  142  113   92  126
Change in reservesd                                 -361  982 -292 -553 -247   -1638  409 -1858   32  -13 -413
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                          -6.0  -6.7  -3.4  -3.3  -4.1    -3.8  -6.4  -6.2  -5.7  -5.4  -5.2
Real annual growth rates ( YR80 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                            4.2  13.3  -2.1  6.0  6.7    10.3  -1.9  2.7  7.0  5.5  5.7
Primary                                             1.9  13.0  -5.0  3.7  5.3    14.9  -1.5  6.8  6.8  6.0  6.0
Manufactures                                        7.1  15.3  2.1  9.1  7.6      4.5  -1.5  -0.6  7.2  5.2  5.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)                            6.2  11.5  -4.6  3.6  16.9    4.9  -2.9  5.6  5.0  5.7  6.0
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
Current revenues                                    24.2 23.9 24.5 25.5 27.4    27.1  26.2  23.8  23.9  23.9  24.0
Current expenditures                                23.0 23.8 23.5 24.6 25.2    26.0  26.5  25.5  23.6  22.9  22.3
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)           1.2  0.1  1.0  0.9  2.2       1.1  -0.3  -1.7  0.3  1.1  1.7
Government Investment                                5.2  5.5  4.5  4.2  4.9       4.9  6.1  6.0  5.8  5.4  5.2
Foreign financing                                   -1.6  -0.7  -1.5  -1.9  -1.7    -1.1  -1.3  -0.7  -1.3  -1.5  -0.9
Budget Deficit                                      -4.0  -5.4  -3.5  -3.3  -2.7    -3.8  -6.4  -7.7  -5.5  -4.3  -3.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                              64.9 69.2 65.0 71.1 69.9    77.0  81.3  81.3  81.2  81.2  81.2
Growth of M2 (%)                                    10.4  7.5  6.5  9.0  5.8    10.2  9.1  11.2  5.9  6.2  6.4
Private sector credit growth/                       58.1  61.7 80.3 68.2 112.3  202.8  36.2  63.1  40.2  59.1  49.1
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR80 =100)
Merchandise export price index                     105.9 116.6 118.6 114.4 108.8   101.9 102.8 104.9 107.0 108.6 109.9
Merchandise import price index                     104.2 113.1 115.0 108.8 100.5   100.8 110.5 110.5 112.9 113.7 114.3
Merchandise terms of trade index                   101.6 103.1 103.2 105.1 108.3   101.1  93.1  95.0  94.8  95.6  96.2
Real exchangerate (US$/LCU)t                       108.3 111.9 113.7 114.7 117.5   118.7 122.0 117.7 117.7 117.7 117.8
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)                      5.1  6.1  3.0  1.0  2.7       0.7  1.9  1.9  2.3  2.0  2.1
GDP deflator (% change)                              1.6  8.0  1.0  2.0  0.7       0.9  2.5  3.0  2.5  2.5  2.5



A
Page
01(' ~ ~    ~      1t d~ a o               1993'2 - W W < '  1994X 0  1995 1'9. '96'  19970'  199   1999  200   20 1   00 9 00
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Central government. Fiscal years in 1996, 1997, and 1998. Calendar years otherwise
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation. Based on Europe CPI.



Annex Xi
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX X
Compair.tor qtoupsP                                                      MI4A   .  LO'
Morocco at a glance                                                                            5/4t2001
M  East    Lewit-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    & North    middle        r
Morocco        Afrias   lncom-         DOvelop.n.nt dlamond
1999
Population. mid-yeat (millionrs                               28.2         291       2.094                     Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alias method, US$)                           1 190       2,060       1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                              33.6         599       2,513
Average flnrdul growth, 1993.99
Population I%)                                                 1 7         2.1         t 1       GNP
Labor force (%l                                                2.6          3.0        1.2       GNP                     "N            Gross
per                                 prim ary
M oet recont estimlate (latet year avaIlable. 1993899)                                           capita                           enrollment
Povetty (1 of population bolow natlonail poverty line)          19
Urban popuietlon (% ottotalpop.allo/f)                          55          58          43
Life expectancy at birth (yeers)                                67          6t          69
Infant m ortality (pfr tfOOt live bitthS)                       4S          45          32
Child malnutrition (% of children ufndef 5)                                 15          15                   Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% oG population)               82          71          56
tiltoracy (% of population age IS+)                             52          36          16
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)            86          95         114
Male                                                          97         102        114           ...--- Lower-middle-ilncome group
FPmale                                                        74          as        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979      l9o9        199t        199S       Ec  o  I                               _fo_
Easnomla -tnier
GOP (USs bi/lliros)                                 15.9      22.8        35 7        35.0
Gross domestic investmentiGOP                       24.5      23.7        22.5        24.2                         Trade
Exports of goods and services/G OP                  17.0      23.6        28.0        30.1
Gross domestic savings/GOP                          t116       f8 2        18.4       20.1
Gross mstlonal savrngstGOP                          15 6      20 S        21.7        23.0
Current account balance/GOP                         -9.6      -3 5         -0 4       '-0.5      D                                i
Interest paymentslGOP                                3.0        4.5         2 9        3.0             snvestment
Total debt/GDP                                      49.6      95.7        57.5        5 45        avins
Total debt sorvicoiexporls                          26.3      30 2        22.9        2 3,9
Present value of debt/GOP DP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
19790-9  1959.99        1998        1999    1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                       4.Q        23        6.8         -0.7        4 Q           -      Morocco
G5NP per csitas                            1.5       06        5.8         -2.2        2.5    -1Lower-middle-inoome group
Exports of goods and services             7.2        5.4       5.9         6.7         4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979      1989        199S        1999       Orewth of Inneatassnt and GOP (I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                       40
Agriculture                                         17.9      17.2         17.0       14.8       c
Industry                                            32.7      33.2        31.9        32.7       ts
Manufacturing                                     16.S       17 8        17.        17.3 73
Services                                            49.4      49.6        51.1        52.6       0
Private consumplion                                 67.0      66.1        63.5        806 0       , n
General government consumption                      21.3       15.7        18.1       19.3 300p
Imports of goods and services                       29.9      29.1        32.0        34 2                  -
1979-89   1989-99        1995        19998       rwbaspra  a   mat  %
(average annual growth)                                                                         O rowlh of xport nd Import I%)
Agriculture                                          5.8      -0.8        24.7       -19.58     a
Industry                                             2.4        3.2         1 .8       25    20
Manufacturing                                      3.9        3.0         2,4        2.5      Is
Services                                             4.3       2.8         5,1         3 3
Private consumptlon                                  4.0       2,9          9.1       -4 1       0
General government consum 0tion                      1.0        3.2    8     .6    6     2                                   " D  n   7    to    CS
Gross domastic investmant                            0'6        1.7       30.1         6 9      15
Imports of goods and services                        1.9       6.0        21.4         4 7               - Exo             -1 -Importa
Gross national product                               3.7       2.4          7.6       -0 6
Note 1990 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average If data are missing the diamond will
be incom plete.
1. Refers to 2000 figures. Includes access to treated surface water and untreated but uncontaminated water.
The detinition of Imoroved water source has chanced over time.



Annex XI
Page 2 of 2
lMorocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             10
Consumer prices                                 8.3       3.1        2.7       0.7      6    
Implicit GDP deflator                           7.3      4.0         0.7       0.9      6        >
4
Government finance                                                                      2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                22.2     22.6       27.4      27.1              94    95    96    97    !       99
Current budget balance                          2.8       1.4        2.2       1.1             - GDP dellator    e .CDI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -9.4      -6.0       -2.7      -3.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           1,955    3,851      7,144     7,514      12.000
Agriculture & Food Items                      641    1,016       1,627     1,590     10,000
Phosphate rock                                568      489        459       434       8,000
Manufactures                                  345    1,644       3,932     4,085      6       *
Total imports (cif)                           3,673    5,842     10,274    10,804       6'_00                           509
Food                                          550      590       1,191     1,177      40
Fuel and energy                               710      843        922      1,330      2,000
Capital goods                                 844    1,458       2,567     2,830         o
93   94  95  96  97   9,s  99
Export price index (1995=100)                    71       85         93        87
Import price index (1995=100)                    78       85         89        89                    m Exports     mImpols
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                       91       99        105        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1979     1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 2,707    5,391      9,970    10,848
Imports of goods and services                 4,752    6,641      11,425    11,964
Resource balance                             -2,045   -1,249      -1,455    -1,317     o 0      il           6 9  
Net income                                     -409   -1,159      -1,033      -977     .i
Net current transfers                           923    1,606      2,345     2,137
Current account balance                      -1,531     -803       -144      -156
Financing items (net)                         1,499      808        391      1,795     3
Changes in net reserves                          32        -5      -247    -1,638      4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..     552      4,693     5,920
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                3.9       8.5        9.6       9.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999     !
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          7,886   21,874     20,491    19,060
IBRD                                         504    2,686       3,388     3,194                         G 183
IDA                                            38       40         29        28
Total debt service                              972    2,042      2,782      3,047
IBRD                                          65       381        493       514         F: 5,750                    8 .b
IDA                                            0         1          2         2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                95      101                                                            D 3 029
Official creditors                           331       688       -455      -226
Private creditors                            673       228        281      -212
Foreign direct investment                      39      167        313       839
Portfolio equitV                                0        0                                           E: 6,876
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                   357      518        204       356      A - IBRD                      E - Bil.teral
Disbursements                                 137      364        253       404      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           25      182        286       302      C - IMF                      G - Shi,rt-term
Netflows                                      112      182        -34       102
Interest payments                             41       200        206       212
Net transfers                                  72      -18       -240      -110
Development Economics                                                                                                     5/4/2001



Annex XI
Page 1 of 1
MAP OF MOROCCO
AVAILABLE ON PAPER COPY






;S; ~~~Mecliterronean Sea 
/ / \ J \ ~~Al H-4inkL  oo 
MOROCCO                                                 L h.                C c
.   /  ^ ~~~~~gOuottone                 t ~~~~~~~~~ j      ouid        T 0
....                                    O... RAIWAY
11.  PORTS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SEETE TON A NDT C fl,,     tWi@\e1ES< 
O C E A N   2  }  jo Seltol<\<   (  \\X_/)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~t~  ROVNCECAPTAL
Thinnopno poKond                                                                 J. h MpDsioUitodheWrd o
o~~~~~ 80                                                                                                                                                            tn~~( ~       0- - 9
I                                                       I.,'ShOd                                     F-
A~/t T L  MAIN TOAD
0    C  E                                                                                                         PRVIC CAITL
<(3Guelmime~~~~~~~~~~ dZ
o                             0             acceptance af such baundones.                                                                                  28t T. 8.Mh
o                             I           I                                                                 l                                                 iK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



