Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7055-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Information Infrastructure Sector Development Adjustment Loan)
between the
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 12, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7055-MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 6, 2001, from the Borrower 
describing a set of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement a program of  development of 
the information infrastructure sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a macroeconomic policy 
framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(C)
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support of the Program 
to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Page  3
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
 “ANRT” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Telecommunications Regulation 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 24-96 regarding Post and 
Telecommunications, promulgated by the Dahir No. 1-97-162 dated August 7, 1997; 
(b)
“BAM” means Barid Al Maghrib, 
a
public legal entity established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 24-96 regarding Post and Telecommunications promulgated by the 
Dahir No. 1-97-162  dated August 7, 1997; 
(c)
“CCP” means Compte Chèques Postaux,
 a department of BAM, as defined in above;
(d)
“CEN” means Caisse d’Epargne Nationale
the national savings  agency, a department of 
BAM as defined above;
(e)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Dirham” and “MAD” mean the lawful currency of the Borrower; and
(g)
“IAM” means Itissalat Al Maghrib
,
the incumbent telecommunications operator in the 
Borrower’s territory, a joint stock company established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 24-96 
regarding Post and Telecommunications promulgated by the Dahir No. 1-97-162  dated August 7, 1997.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty five million Dollars  (US$65,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of 
the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal 
from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be 
Page  4
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance 
expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall 
have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment for 
an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to 
the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal amount 
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one- hundredths of one 
percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary 
of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during 
the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by 
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, 
Page  5
and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of 
the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar in 
respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General 
Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the 
Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action 
taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine (9) months 
after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date ; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely that 
amendments to the Borrower’s Law No. 24-96 regarding Post and Telecommunications, promulgated by 
the Dahir No. 1-97-162 dated August 7, 1997, have been adopted by the Borrower’s Council of 
Government in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.
Page  7
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance, Privatization and Tourism of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie, des Finances, de la Privatisation et du Tourisme
Ministere de l’Economie, des Finances, de la Privatisation et du Tourisme
Rabat,
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
36147
39936
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Rabat, Morocco, 
as of the   day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Page  8
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Godron
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international 
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another 
loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups 
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
Page  9
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the term 
“environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited 
under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to 
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the 
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the 
proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the 
Page  10
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed as a %)
September 15, 2001
0.00%
March 15, 2002
0.00%
September 15, 2002
0.00%
March 15, 2003
0.00%
September 15, 2003
0.00%
March 15, 2004
0.00%
September 15, 2004
0.00%
March 15, 2005
0.00%
September 15, 2005
0.00%
March 15, 2006
0.00%
September 15, 2006
0.00%
March 15, 2007
0.00%
September 15, 2007
0.00%
March 15, 2008
0.00%
September 15, 2008
0.00%
March 15, 2009
0.00%
September 15, 2009
4.17%
March 15, 2010
4.17%
September 15, 2010
4.17%
March 15, 2011
4.17%
September 15, 2011
4.17%
March 15, 2012
4.17%
September 15, 2012
4.17%
March 15, 2013
4.17%
September 15, 2013
4.17%
March 15, 2014
4.17%
September 15, 2014
4.17%
March 15, 2015
4.17%
Installment Share
Date Payment Due 
(Expressed as a %
)
September 15, 2015
4.17%
March 15, 2016
4.17%
September 15, 2016
4.17%
March 15, 2017
4.17%
September 15, 2017
4.17%
March 15, 2018
4.17%
September 15, 2018
4.17%
March 15, 2019
4.17%
Page  11
September 15, 2019
4.17%
March 15, 2020
4.17%
September 15, 2020
4.17%
March 15, 2021
4.09%
     TOTAL
100%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall 
be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each 
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by 
multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal 
Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such 
repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment Date 
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment 
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any time 
the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying 
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to 
the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 3
Program of Actions Taken by the Borrower
The Borrower has:
1.
On the basis of: (i) the decree containing IAM’s license, including the strategic partner’s precise 
contractual obligations (Cahier de Charges de l’Operateur
); and (ii) the shareholders agreement ensuring 
the transfer of IAM’s management control to the strategic partner, adopted and published
in the official 
gazette of the Kingdom of Morocco, as required by law, the decree transferring 35% of IAM’s capital to 
the strategic partner.
2.
Caused ANRT’s Board  to adopt a plan to award licenses in telecommunication segments 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Adopted and published in the official gazette, as required by law, the decree awarding a 
GMPCS
 license, including voice services, through a competitive bidding process.
4.
Caused ANRT to launch the call for expression of interest for the award of the following 
telecommunication licenses: (i) one (1) or several local loop licenses; and (ii) one backbone license 
(inter-urban service), or a second license for a national operator.
5.
Defined the universal service obligations in IAM’s license
6.
Caused ANRT to prepare a regime for the provision of universal service
,
including scope of 
services and procedures for determining tariffs, responsibility of provision of the services, sources of 
funds and the market mechanism to determine and allocate any necessary subsidies. 
7.
Caused ANRT to adopt and implement a new statute of personnel including a code of 
professional ethics.
8.
Adopted through its Council of Government the amendment to Law No. 24-96 regarding Post 
and Telecommunications, replacing a priori by a posteriori financial control of ANRT.
9.
Caused ANRT to prepare the terms of reference for the study on economic pricing for the use of 
the radio-electric spectrum and the budget allocated for such study.
10.
Prepared through an interministerial committee a draft Law on data transmission, including 
principles on recognition and certification of electronic signature.
11.
Identified the integrated management of the State’s civil servants as the pilot project for the 
“Administration on Line” (AOL) initiative, including a governance structure for said pilot project and 
identification of funding sources.
12. 
Identified the financial resources for the AOL initiative’s subsequent phases.
13.
Submitted to the Bank draft reports on the studies providing the basis for the design  of a 
national strategy for the development of the postal sector, including in terms of universal service and 
market liberalization.
Page  13
14. 
Caused BAM to submit to the Bank un preliminary report on the action plan for the 
development of its commercial activities and strategic restructuring, with a  view to strengthening its 
competitiveness in the new sectoral context.
15. 
Finalized the compact with BAM for the strengthening of its competitiveness. 
16.
Signed with two private companies conventions for the development of certified electronic 
commerce  plate-forms for cooperatives. 
