                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28939

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70550)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                                FOR AN

          INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT OPERATION




                                               May 6, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective 8 May 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                      100 MAD = US$ 10.93135
                           US$ 1 = 9.24800 MAD

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      July 1 -    - June 30

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

3RP      Réseaux radioélectriques à ressources partagées (shared
         radioelectric networks)
ADB      African Development Bank
ANRT     Agence Nationale de Réglementation du Secteur des
         Télécommunications
AoL      Administration on line
ADSL     Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
ATM      Automatic teller machine
BAM      Barid Al-Maghrib (the postal operator)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDMA     Code Division Multiple Access
DH       Dirhams
ETSI     European Telecommunications Standards Institute
FADES    Fonds Arabes et Banque Islamique de Développement
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIPE     Gestion Intégrée du Personnel de l'Etat (Integrated
         Management of the Government's Human Resources)
GMPCS    Global Mobile Personal Communications Services
GSM      Global System for Mobile Communications
HT       Hors taxes (net of tax)
IAM      Itissalat Al-Maghrib (Maroc Telecom, the incumbent
         telecommunications operator)
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICT      Information and Communications Technologies
iDEN     Integrated Digital Enhanced Network
IISDL    Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IPO      Initial Public Offering
ISP      Internet service provider
IT       Information Technologies
ITU      International Telecommunication Union
LEO      Low Earth Orbit
LSP      Letter of Sector Policy
MAD      Moroccan Dirham
MENA     Middle East and North Africa
MNA      Middle East and North Africa
OECD     Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
ONE      Office National de l'Electricité
ONCF     Office National de Chemins de Fer
PC       Personal Computer
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RIO      Reference Interconnection Offer

SA                     Société Anonyme (French company designation)
SARL                   Société à Responsabilités Limités
SEPTI                  Secrétariat d'Etat Chargé de la Poste et des Nouvelles
                       Technologies de l'Information
SGG                    Secrétaire Générale du Gouvernement (Secretary General
                       of Government)
SMEs                   Small and Medium Enterprises
SMS                    Short Message Service (cellular phone text messaging)
SNO                    Second National Operator
SPCS                   Satellite Personal Communication Services
Tetra                  Terrestrial Trunked Radio
TOR                    Terms of Reference
TPI-SAL                Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology
                       Sector Development Sector Adjustment Loan
UNDP                   United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO                 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
                       Organization
UPU                    Universal Postal Union
US                     Universal Service
VSAT                   Very Small Aperture Terminal
WB                     World Bank
WBI                    World Bank Institute
WTID                   World Telecommunication Indicators Database
WTO                    World Trade Organization




                             Vice President:         Christiaan Poortman
                          Country Director           Theodore Ahlers
                           Sector Manager            Pierre Guislain
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Carlo Maria Rossotto

                                          MOROCCO
                   Information Infrastructure Sector Development Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 15
6. Sustainability                                                                     16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    20
9. Partner Comments                                                                   21
10. Additional Information                                                            22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
Annex 8. Sector Performance                                                           31
Annex 9. Key Information Infrastructure Progress Measures                             37
Annex 10. Liberalization Schedule Originally Approved by ANRT's Board in March 2000   41
Annex 11. Proposed Policy Matrix for IISDL as of 27 November 2000                     42
Annex 12. Borrower's Report                                                           46

Project ID: P065736                                                  Project Name: Information Infrastructure Sector
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Carlo Maria Rossotto                                    TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 12, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Information Infrastructure Sector Development            L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70550
                            Project
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Telecommunications (45%); Information technology (28%); Postal
                            services (18%); Other industry (9%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (S); Access to urban services for the poor (S);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/2000                                     Effective: 09/30/2001                06/27/2003
     Appraisal: 03/27/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/31/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/SEPTI; KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/BAM;
                                           KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ANRT
                      Other Partners:      African Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Pierre A. Guislain                             Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:             Carlo Maria Rossotto                           Clemencia Torres
ICR Primary Author:             Carlo Maria Rossotto; Isabelle
                                Andress; Mather Pfeiffenberger


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the Morocco Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan (IISDL) were defined
in the context of Morocco's desire to pursue further reforms in its information and communications
technologies (ICT) sector. This followed an initial phase of telecommunications liberalization that was
supported by the successful Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment
Loan (TPI-SAL) (Loan No. 4465-MA) of 1999-2000. Under that operation, Morocco implemented the
provisions of a new telecommunications law (Law 24-96) and introduced competition in the cellular
market.

Given the positive domestic and international reception for those conditions, Morocco was keen to
undertake a second phase of reforms that would increase competition in the ICT sector, develop the legal
and regulatory framework, and extend the benefits of ICT throughout the Moroccan population. The
Government requested Bank support for these initiatives, which was provided by the follow-up IISDL, a
US$65 million one-tranche adjustment operation approved by the Board on May 31, 2001. Cofinancing
was supplied by the African Development Bank (ADB), which designed a two-tranche adjustment
operation of US$100 million.

The main objectives of IISDL were to:            (i) support the Government's program to deepen market
liberalization, increase private sector participation, extend services and strengthen the regulatory
environment of the telecommunications sector; (ii) assist the Government in the formulation and
implementation of a strategy for the use and development of information technologies (IT); and (iii)
formulate a national strategy for the postal sector, including the financial services provided through the
postal network, which will serve as a basis for further specific reforms.

These objectives reflected Morocco's commitment at the time of Board approval to ongoing sector reform.
They were also consistent with the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of enhancing
conditions for economic growth and private sector development and increasing private participation in
infrastructure. In the aftermath of the TPI-SAL, the Government wished to continue focusing its measures
on the broader scope of information infrastructure, and thus an operation which encompassed the three
sub-sectors of telecommunications, post, and IT made sense. However, the objectives were somewhat
complex given the range of policy improvements sought over the three sub-sectors and the Government's
limited capacity in IT and post. More modest objectives in these areas, as discussed further below, might
have been more appropriate.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the operation were divided among the three sub-sectors mentioned above:
telecommunications, IT, and post. The Government's Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) dated April 6, 2001
laid out in further detail the actions that would be taken to implement the commitments under IISDL.




                                                       - 2 -

Telecommunications

(a) Privatization of Itissalat Al-Maghrib (Maroc Telecom)

The Government planned to sell a strategic block of 35% of Maroc Telecom's shares through international
competitive bidding. Completing this sale was a measure of Board presentation of the IISDL. Following
that sale, the Government intended to further divest its ownership of Maroc Telecom by offering shares for
sale to the company's employees and retirees. In addition, it intended to sell a second block of 16% of
Maroc Telecom's shares in early 2002 through an initial public offering (IPO) on the Casablanca and
international stock exchanges. (see also the Borrower's Report in Annex 12).

(b) Reinforcing competition in telecommunications infrastructure and services

The Government would publish in the official gazette a decree awarding a GMPCS license, adopt a
timetable to grant new licenses for networks and services in order to accelerate liberalization, and invite
expressions of interest for these licenses. These were measures for Board presentation. The new licenses
were expected to lead to the deployment of broadband networks, enabling fast Internet access and
multimedia applications. From January 2003 on, the new operators would be allowed to provide all
services including voice and would thus become full-fledged competitors to Maroc Telecom in their
respective market segments. Additionally, as of January 1, 2002, the second GSM operator Méditel was
scheduled to launch international services for its own customers, introducing competition in this segment.
Additional international licenses were to have been awarded in 2002. (For further information on these
licenses, see Annex 10.)

To further promote competition, the Government also planned send to Parliament an amendment of Law
24-96 that would facilitate the use of alternative infrastructures. This would enable utility and transport
companies to make their telecommunications networks and rights of way available to new and existing
operators, consequently reducing infrastructure cost. Approval of this amendment by the Council of
Government was part of the effectiveness measures for the IISDL.

(c) Expanding access to services at reasonable prices for all segments of the population

The Government set general objectives to increase rural teledensity from 0.6% in 2000 to 7% in 2012 and
to have at least one payphone per 250 inhabitants by 2005. Actions planned by the Government in the
pursuit of these objectives included defining the universal service obligations in Maroc Telecom's license
and preparing a new universal service regime by the sector regulator (ANRT). The latter would be aimed at
narrowing gaps in service not covered by commercial operations alone. Carrying out these actions were
measures for Board presentation of the IISDL. The Government intended to present to Parliament an
amendment to Law 24-96 to expand the definition of universal service to include telecommunications and
information services in general, rather than telephony only. Approval of this amendment by the Council of
Government was an effectiveness measure for IISDL. The Government also intended to draft a decree
implementing the new universal service regime.

(d) Reinforcing the telecommunications regulatory framework

In order to strengthen ANRT, the Government would send to Parliament an amendment to Law 24-96 that
would replace a priori financial controls on ANRT by a posteriori controls. The Government was also to
submit to Parliament an amendment to Law 24-96 that would strengthen ANRT's enforcement power over



                                                    - 3 -

operators by allowing the agency to impose graduated sanctions (including financial penalties) for
non-compliance, in addition to license suspension provided for in Law 24-96. Approval of these two
amendments by the Council of Government was part of the IISDL measures for Board presentation and
effectiveness, respectively.

To strengthen the financial autonomy and accountability of ANRT, the Government intended to review by
March 2002 the agency's funding sources and adjust regulatory fees to bring them more in line with the
cost of regulation. This was to be preceded by a study on pricing of spectrum rights. The preparation of
terms of reference and funding for this study was a Board .

The design of these four project components addressed all elements of the IISDL's first objective, namely
to increase private sector participation, deepen liberalization, extend services, and strengthen regulation,
respectively. The intended sequencing of actions under the first two components -- increasing competition
through the award of new licenses before further divestiture of Maroc Telecom -- also drew on the lesson
from TPI-SAL, that strengthening competition prior to privatization is a powerful tool of sector reform.

Information Technology

(e) Developing an adequate legal and regulatory framework for information technology and promoting
the development of electronic commerce

The Government was to prepare and submit to Parliament by September 2002 a draft law on data
transmission, including recognition of electronic signature. Approval of this draft law by the Council of
Government was a measure for Board presentation. Further draft laws to create a coherent and reliable
legal framework were to be elaborated, including certification of electronic transactions, cryptography,
privacy, technology neutrality, and consumer protection in the field of electronic media.

(f) Developing inter-administration networks

The Government would launch a pilot project of its Administration-on-Line (AoL) initiative. The aim of
AoL was to gradually develop a government-wide information system, connect different ministries at the
central and local level, and establish common interoperable procedures. AoL was expected to streamline
procedures, reduce costs, and benefit citizens and enterprises. In addition, this infrastructure would allow
development of e-government applications and improve public services. The selection of the Integrated
Management of the Government's Human Resources (Gestion Integrée du Personnel de l'Etat - GIPE) as
the pilot project for the AoL initiative and the identification of financial resources for the initiative's
subsequent phases were measures of Board presentation. At Board, launch of the GIPE was expected in
November-December 2001.

(g) Promotion of ICT-related applications through public-private partnerships and integration of
certain traditional sectors in global commerce

The Government would reach agreements with two private companies for the development of certified
electronic commerce platforms for economic cooperatives (e.g. groups of local artisans, craftspeople,
farmers). Signing these agreements was a measure for Board presentation. In addition, the Government
intended to promote the use of e-commerce portals among cooperatives. Under this component the
Government also intended to launch a cyber park in Casablanca and plan a second park in Bouznika. The
parks would host incubators for new ICT enterprises and SMEs.




                                                    - 4 -

Postal Sector

(h) Designing a national strategy for the modernization of the postal sector

The Government would undertake a postal sector study. This was viewed as a key element for the design of
the national postal strategy, aiming at: a) the provision of universal service in the postal sector in line with
international standards; b) the gradual opening of the postal service to competition and increased private
participation; c) the strengthening of the postal operator Barid Al-Maghrib (BAM), notably through its
corporatization, as a credible competitor in a liberalized environment; and d) the increased mobilization of
rural savings and the improvement of management autonomy in postal financial services. Completing the
sector study was a measure for Board presentation.

(i) Modernizing the postal operator (BAM)

The Government sought to modernize BAM through preparation and implementation of: a) an action plan
for business development; b) an internal restructuring; and c) the increased use of telecommunications
services and IT applications to enhance the internal efficiency (information systems) and to improve the
quality of postal services (value-added services). Signature of a program contract between the Government
of Morocco and BAM, and the completion of the first phase of a study on BAM's restructuring, were
measures for Board presentation.

(j) Extending the provision of financial services through the postal network

The Government would undertake, in collaboration with BAM and SEPTI, a study to identify actions
aimed at: a) ensuring the access to financial instruments for a broader range of consumers, without undue
distortions of fair competition with the banking and financial system; b) allowing BAM to diversify its
revenue sources in a context of postal sector liberalization; and c) increasing savings mobilization and
improving the allocation of resources towards productive activities.

These three components reflected accurately the project objectives for the postal sector. Both the objectives
and the components, however, were too ambitious given the Government's limited project implementation
capacity. It would have been better to have put the main focus on modernizing and corporatizing the postal
operator (see also Sections 4.2(i) and 7.1).

The multisectoral nature of the IISDL had merits given the common institutional legacy and technological
convergence of the telecommunications, IT, and postal sectors. However, the project design would have
been stronger had there been fewer components focused on key areas to ensure maximum impact (see also
Section 7.1).

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

For this ICR, Quality at Entry is considered to have been unsatisfactory. Quality at entry was undermined
by the one-tranche design adopted by the Bank's country management on short notice before Board
presentation. This decision was not consistent with the assessment of the operation's risks, as explained



                                                     - 5 -

below.

Before Board approval of the IISDL, the Bank's country management decided to restructure the operation
from two tranches to one. This decision was based on the base case assumptions of a new CAS being
presented to the Board in May 2001, at the same time as the IISDL. The proposed IISDL fell outside of the
proposed core program and fiscal triggers in the base case of the CAS. Support for the IISDL, which had
been in preparation since FY99, was nonetheless deemed important in recognition of Morocco's excellent
track record under the TPI-SAL. In order to reconcile these conflicting positions, the Bank's country
management reduced the IISDL loan amount and cut the number of tranches from two to one. The project
team disagreed with this choice, because it was concerned that the one-tranche structure would weaken the
Bank's leverage on implementation of the Government's reform program.

This decision was considered by the team as non consistent with the assessment of the risks faced by the
IISDL. The team had identified the following risks: (i) possible delay in the introduction of competition in
the telecommunications sector (fixed line voice services); (ii) weak institutional capacity to design and
implement reforms, especially in the IT and postal sectors; (iii) challenges to the regulatory agency's
autonomy and its capacity to perform efficiently; (iv) delays in the elaboration and adoption of a new legal
and regulatory framework in the postal sector; and (v) insufficient coordination among ministries for the
development of IT-based initiatives. Bank country management felt these risks were sufficiently mitigated
by (i) consistency of the IISDL with the 2001 CAS objectives; (ii) consistency of the objectives with
Morocco's stated priorities for economic growth and poverty reduction, through job creation and increased
access to communication that the ICT sector offers; (iii) Morocco's commitment to ongoing sector reforms
following TPI-SAL's substantial achievements and underpinned by a strong policy dialogue with the Bank;
and (iv) existence of a second tranche of the related ADB operation.

A QAG assessment carried out in June 2001 rated Quality at Entry as highly satisfactory, praising
especially the Bank management decision to convert the loan from a double-tranche to a single-tranche
adjustment operation. In QAG's view this was important, because the decision made it possible for the
Government with Bank support to complete the privatization of Maroc Telecom, which was seen as the
main aspect of the reform program, before the operation was sent to the Board. QAG placed this emphasis
on the importance of the privatization because it saw the involvement of major international private sector
companies in Morocco's telecommunications sector (Vivendi in Maroc Telecom; Spain's Telefónica and
Portugal's TelecomGroupe in Méditel, the second GSM operator) as providing a strong attraction for other
private sector players to become involved. Nevertheless, QAG singled out competition policy as an area for
improvement, due to the exclusivities in various segments given to Maroc Telecom and Méditel until 2003.
QAG encouraged the Bank and the Government to continue working to ensure that the telecommunications
sector was effectively opened to competition according to the Government's timetable with all barriers
removed, in order to extend access to all services to the Moroccan population. Competition, however,
actually slowed down considerably throughout the operation, and in retrospect it also appears that QAG
underestimated the effect that the privatization of Maroc Telecom would have in limiting further private
sector participation in the sector.

For all these reasons, and with the benefit of hindsight, the one-tranche structure can now be seen as a
significant shortcoming of the operation (see also Section 7.1 for further discussion).




                                                     - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the operation is rated satisfactory. The reasons for this rating are the following: a)
private participation in the sector was increased, through the successful privatization of Maroc Telecom; b)
the Government made some effort to increase competition in the telecommunications sector through the
attempt to award a license for a Second National Operator (SNO), although it failed to elicit the interest of
investors; c) with delay, some improvements in the regulatory framework took place; and d) with delay,
substantial achievements were obtained in the postal sector (specifically with regard to BAM's
performance) and in the IT sector.

The satisfactory rating is also justified by the fact that the Government has, in the long run if not entirely
during the IISDL, maintained its commitment to increasing competition and private participation in the
sector. The Government relaunched the liberalization process in 2004, after the IISDL had closed, and a
plan to award new licenses is currently being led by ANRT. The Government has confirmed its intention to
further divest its remaining ownership interest in Maroc Telecom.

However, the outcome of the project, although satisfactory, fell short of the commitments and expectations
set during project preparation. In particular, the Council of Ministers approved Law 55-01 amending Law
24-96 only on April 16, 2004. This is nine months after the approval by the Council of Government on
June 26, 2003, and long after the original timetable that had forecast presentation to Parliament in the year
2001. Shortfalls are examined in Section 4.2 below.

Following the ICR review meeting of December 2003, Bank senior management decided to communicate to
the Government that the ICR would be finalized with an unsatisfactory rating for this section, if Law 55-01
amending Law 24-96 was not approved before the planned ICR submission date of December 31, 2003.
Management agreed to extend the ICR submission date to May 14, 2004 to allow time for the draft
amendments to be approved by the Council of Ministers.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a) Privatization of Itissalat Al-Maghrib (Maroc Telecom)

The outcome of this component is satisfactory. The initial privatization of Maroc Telecom was
successfully completed in February 2001. A block of 35% of shares was sold for US$2.33 billion to the
Vivendi Universal Group through international competitive tender. A shareholders agreement gave Vivendi
considerable authority to manage the company. No other country in the MENA region, except Jordan, was
able in 1998-2003 to bring private investment into their incumbent operators.

The Bank's advice on the terms of Maroc Telecom's license was generally accepted. The issue of possible
inconsistency between the license and Morocco's WTO commitments on telecommunications was raised by
the Bank but a definitive clarification was not reached. Slippages in the privatization schedule and the time
consumed by these interactions delayed Board presentation by six months.

Further divestiture of the state's ownership in Maroc Telecom was postponed. An initial public offering in
domestic and international markets, planned for 2002, was not carried out. This was largely due to the
sharp decline of international capital markets from 2000, but other factors also played a role: (i) the
restructuring of Vivendi's global business, which cast uncertainty regarding Maroc Telecom's future



                                                      - 7 -

ownership and management; and (ii) the unsettled condition of the Moroccan telecommunications
regulatory framework, including amendments underway to the telecommunications law, unresolved
interconnection problems, uncertain timetable for further liberalization, and absence of a working universal
service financing mechanism. The Government's option to sell a further 16% of shares to Vivendi (which
would give the latter ownership control) has likewise been delayed, for much the same reasons and also
pending valuation of the company. The transfer of stock to Maroc Telecom's employees, planned for 2001,
remains pending subject to setting a price in terms of new market placements.

The Government remains committed to the divestiture of the state's remaining stake in Maroc Telecom. An
important objective is to resolve the conflict of interest between the Government's roles as regulator
(ANRT's board of directors is chaired by the Prime Minister and comprised mainly of Government
ministers) and as the main owner of the largest regulated company (Maroc Telecom). The 16% block can
be sold once an agreement on the valuation of the company is finalized. The Government is also
considering selling about 7-10% of shares in domestic and international capital markets. The process is
expected to be completed in the second half of 2004 exchanges (see also the Borrower's Report in Annex
12).

(b) Reinforcing competition in telecommunications infrastructure and services

The outcome of this component is unsatisfactory. This rating is motivated by the considerable delay
incurred by all measures in this component, with respect to the original timetable. Some concrete progress
was achieved only after the closing date of the operation, and expecially in 2004. All sector performance
indicators that are related to the potential impact of competition in the telecommunications sector are worse
than forecasted (see Annex 1, price of international calls and price of international leased lines). Whereas
licensing of a second mobile operator in 1999 led to spectacular growth of these services (Figure 1),
opening other segments of the telecommunications market -- a central component of the Government's
sector development plans supported by IISDL -- by and large did not happen. The schedule for issuing
major new licenses in 2001 and 2002 (Annex 10), was not implemented. Only small non-exclusive wireless
licenses were successfully awarded in 2000-2002 (see the Borrower's Report in Annex 12 for further detail
on these licenses). Following a market study by McKinsey and Co. and an invitation for expressions of
interest in the major licenses in March 2001, it was decided to issue only a single SNO license combining
fixed local, long distance, and international voice and data services. The invitation for bids was
successively delayed until June 2002 in view of slow progress towards amending the telecommunications
law and the long time taken by an administrative commission in charge of approving the license conditions (
cahiers des charges). Fifteen companies bought the bidding documents. The closing date to receive bids
was set for October 8, 2002 and extended to November 5 at the request of prospective bidders.




                                                       - 8 -

Figure 1

                             Competition in mobile stimulated strong
                                    and sustained subscriber growth

                 9,000,000

                 8,000,000

                 7,000,000

                 6,000,000    Tender Process launch    Commerical launch
                              June 1998                January 2000
                 5,000,000

                 4,000,000

     Subscribers 3,000,000            Threat of competition                       Effective competition

                 2,000,000

                 1,000,000

                         0


                       Dec-97 Jun-98 Dec-98   Jun-99 Dec-99 Jun-00  Dec-00 Jun-01   Dec-01   Jun-02  Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03
 Source: EMC, 2004



In the end, no bids were received for the SNO license. There is broad consensus on the reasons for this
failure: (i) narrow scope of the license (fixed service only); (ii) nonviable roll-out and coverage obligations
and lack of access to alternative infrastructures; (iii) a new reference interconnection offer (RIO) from
Maroc Telecom had not been finalized and the draft raised major concerns on key technical and pricing
aspects; (iv) changes in the telecommunications law were still underway; and (v) implementing regulations
on universal service were not in place. These defects, largely of the Government's and ANRT's own
making, were compounded by the general downturn of international capital markets. These shortcomings
are in great part acknowledged by the Government in its Borrower's Report (Annex 12).

Moreover, effective competition failed to develop even in markets that were already nominally open without
quantitative entry restrictions, especially data and Internet services. From about 100 Internet service
providers (ISPs) registered with ANRT in 2000, only three remain in business today. Maroc Telecom, a
latecomer to Internet services, extended its market dominance to this new segment, of which it now has over
70% of all accounts. The number of ISPs per million inhabitants in Morocco, already lower than in other
countries in the year 2000, was reduced even further in 2001 and the number of Internet users stagnated
(Figures 2 and 3). Slow growth and lack of alternative suppliers is likely to be hurting
information-intensive business users in all sectors of the economy, discouraging foreign investment, and
inhibiting development of new information services with considerable employment generation potential.




                                                                                 - 9 -

Figure 2

                                                                                     ISPs decrease in Morocco

                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                       2.71

                                                                2.5

                                                                                                                                                  2.03

      inhabitants                                                 2                                                                 1.83 1.83

                                                                                                                                                             2000
                                                                1.5                                                      1.41

                                                                                                            1.22     1.27                                    2001
                 million
                                                                  1                             0.88    0.9

                        per                                                                 0.69

                                                                0.5               0.250.29
                           ISPs                                        0.070.03
                                                                  0
                                                                      Morocco      Egypt   Malaysia     Turkey          El        Georgia          Chile
                                                                                                                   Salvador

 Source: ITU Intenet for a Mobile Generation 2002, Netcraft




Figure 3

                                                                              Morocco trailing in internet users

                                                                3,500
                                                                                                                                                  3,19 7

                                                                3,000
                               inhabitants
                                                                2,500                                                               2,375


                                          10,000                2,000
                                                                                                                              1,6 6 8         1,719
                                                per                                                                                                         2000
                                                                1,500                                                                                       2002

                                                   users        1,000
                                                                                                                       728

                                                                                                          4 6 5
                                                                  500                                             3 0 6
                                                        Internt            14 9      16 9      2 2 9
                                                                        4 6        70        71        112

                                                                    0
                                                                      Georgia    Morocco    Egypt         El     Turkey         Chile        Malaysia
                                                                                                     Salvador

 Source: ITU WTID 2002, ITU Statistics w ebsite 2003



A major factor in slow data and Internet growth has been the lack of effective competition in the provision
of the underlying infrastructure. Maroc Telecom's published prices for international leased circuits remain
far above the levels expected at appraisal and several times higher than those prevailing in Europe and in
competitive developing country markets (see Annex 1). This results in Morocco having the highest Internet
access prices (relative to income) in the Middle East. The UNDP Arab Human Development Report
indicates that Internet access prices in Morocco are now by far the highest in the Middle East relative to
GDP per capita, and a serious bottleneck to the diffusion of the Internet in Morocco. VSAT services by
new operators are inherently too costly to put downward pressure on wholesale prices of leased circuits for
public use. Méditel's license limits use of its international gateways only to its own clients and also
prevents it from leasing its infrastructure to other operators.




                                                                                                                           - 10 -

Large spare domestic and international transmission capacities that could be made available by parastatal
enterprises (especially ONE and ONCF, the electricity and railway companies, respectively) were not
allowed to be used to provide public telecommunications services. An amendment to Law 24-96 (Law
55-01) that opens the way for the use of such alternative infrastructures, expected to be approved by the
Council of Government in September 2001 as an effectiveness measure of the Loan, was approved only in
June 2003 and by the Council of Ministers in April 2004. Likewise, lack of competition and unbundling of
the local networks has limited flexibility in the provision of corporate data and Internet services and kept
wholesale call charges high.

Competitors also point out alleged anticompetitive practices by Maroc Telecom, including price squeezing
and predatory pricing. In response to a complaint filed in 2002 by MarocConnect, the main independent
ISP, ANRT required Maroc Telecom to offer independent ISPs transit and interconnection terms similar to
the ones it applied to Menara, its own ISP branch, for the provision of dial-up Internet services. Another
ANRT ruling in 2003 on ADSL (a type of broadband customer access to ISPs using phone lines) again
found for the complainants and ordered Maroc Telecom to decrease transit charges to competitors, offer
volume discounts, or increase its own retail prices, ranging between 15% and 40%.

The problems underlying slow Internet development and lack of effective competition may, however, be
more complex than suggested above. Maroc Telecom points out that there are tradeoffs between sustaining
infrastructure development and promoting competition. The business model used to successfully launch
mobile services, it argues, now undermines the fixed network ­ without which Internet and other advanced
communication and information services cannot reach the public at large. A detailed analysis of
telecommunications competition in Morocco goes beyond the limited scope of this ICR. This analysis is
currently being undertaken by ANRT in preparation for further liberalization.

To the Government's and ANRT's credit, a serious effort to relaunch the liberalization process has started
in 2004, and should provide concrete options to increase competition in the sector by the end of the year. In
addition, the Government has examined carefully the reasons for the failure of the SNO. In preparation for
approval by the Parliament of the amendments to the telecommunications law, ANRT has prepared a
package of new regulatory decrees that would implement those amendments and address several of the
shortcomings of the existing regime. This includes, for example, vesting in ANRT the authority to monitor
and act against anti-competitive behavior, providing a framework for the development of alternative
infrastructures, setting the basis for launching a universal service program, and establishing the rules for
sharing rights of way and other physical infrastructure. At the ANRT's request, the Bank reviewed and
commented on this package in April 2004.

(c) Expanding access to services at reasonable prices for all segments of the population

This component is rated unsatisfactory. Little progress was been made during the IISDL towards setting
up a financing mechanism to extend telecommunications services to places and users that are not
commercially viable on their own. A draft amendment to the telecommunications law (Law 55-01 amending
Law 24-96), approved by the Council of Government in June 2003 (two years behind schedule) and by the
Council of Ministers in April 2004, would enable the establishment under the Loi Organique des Finances
of a special account into which the universal service contributions of the operators would be paid. A draft
decree with such regulations, which had been prepared by ANRT as a measure of Board presentation of the
Loan and was to have been approved by the Council of Ministers by the end of 2001, was never processed.

In the meantime, the solution envisaged by the Government and the Bank for universal service has now
been overtaken by events. First, the impressive growth of mobile services has increased coverage of basic


                                                     - 11 -

voice communications in Morocco to about 96% of the population countrywide. Network roll-out, which
was the main focus of the original approach to universal service, is no longer the main issue. Moreover,
pre-paid mobile has reached many low-income users that could not obtain conventional fixed or mobile
services because they are not creditworthy, cannot commit to a fixed monthly bill, and need close control of
calling expenditure. Prepaid call charges, however, remain very high and most of these users receive many
more calls than they generate, so call initiation from low-income users remains an issue.

Second, access to the Internet, information services, and information technologies, rather than just voice
communication, is increasingly recognized as necessary for economic development. Even after existing
barriers to entry and competition in these services are removed (see Section 4.2(b) above), a gap is likely to
remain between what operating companies are prepared to do on a commercial basis alone and what the
Government may want from a broader development viewpoint. The Government had planned to submit to
Parliament by the first quarter of 2002 an amendment to the Law 24-96 that would have expanded the
scope of universal service beyond telephony, but this has not materialized and is not part of the
amendments currently being processed. The Bank agreed to declare IISDL effective, even though this
amendment to Law 24-96 was an effectiveness measure. The Bank's rationale was that in absence of clear
rules to govern universal service, a broadened definition risked opening the way to ad hoc political slush
funds.

As part of the package on decrees to implement the new amendments to Law 24-96, ANRT has drafted a
new decree that established the basis for launching a universal service program that reflects these changed
circumstances. Implementing regulations should follow.

(d) Reinforcing the telecommunications regulatory framework

The outcome of this component is overall satisfactory, although progress has been much slower than
expected. An amendment to the telecommunications law that replaced ex-ante financial control of ANRT
by ex-post control, was approved by Parliament before Board presentation of IISDL and was enacted on
time in June 2001. ANRT continued to build its professional competencies, internal and consultative
processes, and a body of specific results. Amendments to Law 24-96 that would permit ANRT to impose
graduated sanctions and allow alternative telecommunications infrastructures, a measure of IISDL
effectiveness, were approved by the Council of Government only in June 2003 and by the Council of
Ministers in April 2004 and have yet to be passed by Parliament. A ministerial decree adjusting spectrum
fees to reflect the cost of spectrum management and regulation, expected to be in force by the third quarter
of 2001, was approved by SEPTI and the Ministry of Finance and sent to the Secretary General of
Government only in early 2003 and has not yet been cleared.

Information Society

The objectives of the Information Society components (components e-g below) were achieved, and their
outcomes are satisfactory. Most of the progress, however, was concentrated in the last 12-18 months, after
SEPTI was incorporated into the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Telecommunications.


(e) Developing an adequate legal and regulatory framework for information technology and promoting
the development of electronic commerce

The first measure supported by the operation was the drafting of a bill on electronic signature and
certification. The Government prepared a draft which incorporated good international practice, supported


                                                     - 12 -

by technical assistance provided under the operation. While a final draft for the bill was prepared in August
2000, it is still with the Secretary General of Government and the draft is still to be submitted to the
Council of Government.

(f) Developing inter-administration networks

In the area of e-government, the objectives set in the operation (launch of a pilot project for
Administration-on-line) were exceeded. The pilot project (GIPE) was successfully launched. In addition,
the progress achieved in the area of e-government has been substantial. The Government has created a
steering committee, led by the Ministre des Affaires Générales du Gouvernment, and including the Minister
for Industry, Commerce and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Communications, and the Minister for
the Modernization of the State. Several administrations developed e-government applications, including the
Ministry of Justice (Projet e-Justice), the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Telecommunications, the
Ministry of Finance (e-Finance, and applications in areas such as trade facilitation and personnel
management for the State, among others), and the Ministry of Interior. The Government of Morocco is
also assessing the development of platforms to deliver these electronic services to the public, including the
wilayas, the Centres Regionaux d'Investissement, the Chambers of Commerce, and BAM. These
institutions, and others, can play different roles in the delivery of electronic services to the public. The
development of adequate and integrated platforms for the delivery of e-government services is critical.
Given the scarce Internet penetration in Moroccan households, the citizenry will need public access points
and specific trained personnel to have access to and benefit from e-government applications.

With regard to e-government applications in the justice sector, this operation was a complement and will
benefit from the positive results achieved under another Bank operation, the Legal and Judicial
Development Project, which supported several specific databases and applications (e.g., case management
and registries of commerce).

(g) Promotion of ICT-related application through public-private partnerships and integration of
certain traditional sectors in world commerce

Under the activities of the operation, there was also the effective launch of activities in the Casablanca
cyberpark. This took place in June 2001, and today about 130 start-ups as well as established companies
are operating in the park, and about 700 jobs were created. The Government is planning a second larger
park in the area of Bouznika. We do not have enough evidence to assess how this operation has been
actually conducted, whether it had the desired impact on support to the local IT industry, and whether the
establishment of the cyberpark is the most cost-effective option for the Govenment in the area of support to
the local IT industry.

Another measure to be achieved during the operation was the signature of agreements to foster use by
cooperatives of electronic commerce. A planned measure set at the time of Board presentation was to have
15 cooperatives starting to use e-commerce. As of June 2001, this objective was achieved. In addition, two
thematic portals have been developed and are fully operational.


Postal sector

The postal sector component is ranked satisfactory overall due mainly to the outstanding improvements
achieved by the historical postal operator, Barid Al-Maghrib (BAM). The outstanding performance of
BAM is also reflected in the relevant postal indicators (see annex 1). The Government's success in


                                                    - 13 -

reforming the postal sector was limited during most of the operation, but momentum was regained toward
its end.

(h) Designing a national strategy for the modernization of the postal sector

The Government did not design a sector strategy and did not implement any significant change in the
organization of the postal sector during the operation. Lack of political commitment was at the basis of this
insufficient progress. Technical assistance consultancies were provided to the Government to assist in the
formulation of universal service obligations (Andersen report 2001, Kok report 2001, De Donder report
2002) to be followed by a liberalization strategy. The Government felt the need to run an additional study
to be completed by mid-June 2004. This study will take into account the newly available cost accounting
information provided by BAM. It is considered by the Government to finalize the draft postal law currently
in preparation. The draft postal law currently in preparation is expected to be finalized by the Government
by end-2004.

(i) Modernizing the postal operator (BAM)

This has been a notable success. BAM carried out a restructuring and implemented a new corporate
strategy and a new investment plan that translated into significant financial improvements (profit has
increased at an average annual rate of 14% over this period). There were two main dimensions to the
restructuring: a large retrenchment program fully supported by BAM (a staff reduction of 1,000 in 2002
and of a few hundred in 2003, i.e., about 10% of total staff, for a total cost reduction of approximately
MAD 280 million); and a decentralization of operations, through the transfer of responsibilities to the
regional level.

The new corporate strategy, based on an ambitious investment plan (fully financed by BAM, with an
investment envelope that reached MAD 220 million for 2003), is focusing on the development of a
customer-oriented action plan and of a number of new products and services aimed at better meeting
customer demand, such as hybrid mail, deployment of ATMs, a geographic information system, an address
database, etc. Postal access has improved through additional points of contact (see Annex 1, impact
indicator on access to postal services), but quality of service improvement has not met the objective of 80%
of mail delivered on day 2 after mailing (65%, see Annex 1).

In addition to modernization, the company's relationship with its shareholder has benefitted from the
preparation and implementation of a performance contract for 2002-2004, which was a measure for Board
presentation. Two years into the performance contract, BAM has met almost all the objectives while the
Government met its objectives only partially.

(j) Extending the provision of financial services through the postal network

This activity did not start during the course of the operation. Although terms of reference were drafted
early in preparation for the operation (2000), the study started only in November 2003. Two reasons
explain this delay: it was difficult to firm up the necessary funding (eventually the study was funded by
FADES); and the Ministry of Finance seemed to find the timing of this study inadequate. In spite of the
delay, BAM achieved good performance over the period of the operation (amounts deposited in savings
accounts increased at an annual rate of 10% over the period).




                                                     - 14 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

NA.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

NA.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact was positive but below the expectations originally set during
preparation. As indicated in 4.1 above, an amendment to the telecommunications law replacing ex-ante
financial control of ANRT by ex-post control, was enacted on schedule in June 2001 (Law No. 79-99 of 22
June 2001, amending law No. 24-96 of 7 August 1997). The amendment abrogated the application to
ANRT of standard public sector financial controls and replaced them by semi-annual assessment by a
commission of experts and a comptroller designated by the Ministry of Finance. ANRT is also subject to
annual external accounting audits. These changes gave ANRT greater flexibility to respond to the rapidly
changing demands of the telecommunications sector without diluting accountability to the Government.
The operation also supported the adjustment of spectrum fees to the cost of spectrum management and
regulation, which strengthened ANRT's ability to make effective use of its financial resources. The
operation succeeded in supporting the drafting of amendments to the telecommunications law that would
give ANRT the power to impose sanctions, thus strengthening its capability to act as an autonomous
arbiter of the sector.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The international capital markets, for telecommunications as much as for investment in developing
countries generally, declined abruptly around 2000. Major telecommunications operating companies, which
earlier had been eager to expand into Morocco and other developing countries, started retrenching towards
their home markets. New licenses that in the 1990s would have attracted interest became difficult to sell,
and the appetite for investing in existing companies decreased. Moreover, the better business opportunities
had already been taken up in earlier years, and new ones were intrinsically less attractive. Expectations
based on past success misled governments, including the Government of Morocco, to demand high prices or
impose excessive obligations on operations.

This turn of events in international markets was compounded in the case of Morocco by structural changes
within the Vivendi Group, which moved to the brink of bankruptcy. Uncertainty regarding whether Vivendi
would sell its stake in Maroc Telecom or instead keep it and increase its participation cast doubts among
investors on the future ownership and management of the company.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government postponed its plans to further divest its ownership interest in Maroc Telecom. An initial
public offering in Casablanca and foreign markets, which had been planned for 2002, is now being
considered for 2004. The Government's option to sell 16% of shares to Vivendi is still outstanding, pending
agreement on the sale price which will be negotiated on the basis of company valuations currently being



                                                     - 15 -

prepared by financial advisers to both parties. Sale of shares to Maroc Telecom employees has likewise
been deferred, partly reflecting little interest from the employees themselves, who at the time of
privatization mostly opted for cash bonuses rather than shares, and partly because lack of market signals
on share prices (see also Section 4.2(a)).

Shortcomings in the design of the SNO license is regarded by most observers as a key factor that resulted
in lack of investor interest in this license (see Section 4.2(b)). It is unclear why ANRT, which had so
successfully prepared and carried out the award of the second mobile license in 1998, failed to produce an
attractive design for the second fixed license. As ANRT became more burdened with increasingly difficult
and contentious regulatory issues, the Government increasingly intervened in its decisions, and tensions
arose between the Government's regulatory and ownership interests, one may speculate that the balance of
forces shifted away somewhat from economic and technical design towards political considerations and
compromises.

The Government's policy on the development of postal financial services was not completed due to the
delay in launching the feasibility study (see Section 4.2(j)). Resources to fund this study were allocated at a
very late stage of the operation, for which the Ministry of Finance is partially responsible.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Although ANRT drafted the licenses for Maroc Telecom and the SNO, they were finalized by the
Government. The elaboration of an action plan to issue multiple licenses and meet liberalization objectives
were under ANRT's responsibility, even though the decision to combine several licenses into a single SNO
license was taken by the Government. ANRT, within the limits of its regulatory attributions and powers,
had some control over and responsibility for the oversight of the competition conditions in the Internet
market.

In the postal sector, delays in initiating the drafting of the postal law can mostly be attributed to a lack of
internal resources within SEPTI, whose staff was insufficiently aware of postal reform issues.


5.4 Costs and financing:

NA.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of sector reform in telecommunications is overall likely. A distinction needs to be made,
however, between sustainability of achieved results and sustainability of expected results. As concerns the
achievements of the operation, they are likely to be sustainable. In particular, privatization of Maroc
Telecom is not likely to be reversed. The transformation of BAM into an efficient and technologically
advanced corporation is secure in the short term (BAM is financially solid, and it is unlikely that its
performance will be threatened by liberalization, which is expected to gradually emerge). In the IT sector
the recent e-government developments have good potential, are politically non-controversial, and will likely
enjoy the support of the beneficiaries (Moroccan citizens and enterprises).

The outlook for achieving and sustaining other results expected at the time of Board presentation but that


                                                      - 16 -

have not materialized is still uncertain. In particular: a) Government may be discouraged from issuing new
licenses by the lower prices these licenses will command, compared with the second mobile license and the
sale of Maroc Telecom; b) developing more effective competition in the data and Internet markets, where
Maroc Telecom now dominates, will require sustained political commitment to reform and to ANRT; and
c) the conflict between the Government's interest as head of the regulatory authority and owner of the
dominant regulated company continues to limit the extent to which anticompetitive behavior can be
contained.

Amid these constraints on further progress of sector reform, there are positive signs. For example,
notwithstanding the absence of a prospect for large windfall revenues from the sale of licenses, the
Government has publicly restated its commitment to building up competition. This commitment is
confirmed in the Borrower's Report to this ICR (Annex 12) and by the current effort of ANRT to relaunch
the process to award new licenses. In addition, new draft regulations have been prepared on competition
and access to essential infrastructure. Finally, the Board of ANRT has decided to change the composition
of the Comité de Gestion (Board of Directors) of ANRT.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

NA.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Although there are some positive features, the Bank's performance during project preparation was overall
unsatisfactory. There are three main reasons for this assessment:

l One-tranche design of the operation. The Bank's MENA management required, only a few months
    before Board approval that the IISDL, designed in two tranches, be restructured as a one-tranche
    operation. Management's decision was endorsed and praised by QAG. This decision weakened the
    Bank's leverage on the reform program, specifically on the key components of the operation now rated
    unsatisfactory, and heavily affected implementation (see also Section 3.5). For example, the request
    for expressions of interest for the award of multiple network licenses was a Board presentation measure
    and a second tranche measure would have explicitly detailed the license terms. This decision to collapse
    from two to one the number of tranches was also combined with a decision by Management to keep a
    FY01 Board presentation date (May 31). The effectiveness measure was the only tool available to
    continue the dialogue after Board approval, but it was a narrow avenue to support broader sector
    reform.

l High costs and insufficient focus in design of the operation. Total preparation cost reached
    US$823,000, of which US$668,000 financed from the Bank's budget, US$19,000 from PHRD, and
    US$36,000 from other sources. This is three times the preparation cost for TPI-SAL, the previous
    successful telecommunications adjustment operation in Morocco (total US$266,000, of which
    US$166,000 from Bank budget and US$100,000 from other sources). In terms of the Bank's budget,
    IISDL was four times more expensive than TPI-SAL and about one and a half times as expensive as
    the MNA regional average of US$416,000 for adjustment operations between FY99-03. A contributing
    factor was excessive spending on the postal financial services component (approximately US$47,000)
    at a time when the Government was not ready to tackle such controversial reform, and conflicting



                                                      - 17 -

    interests put this component at odds with the rest of the operation while diverting time and resources
    from more important components. The multisectoral design of the operation, encompassing post,
    telecommunications, and information technologies certainly had merits, due to the interdependence of
    these three sectors. However, the design should have focused on fewer measures with a stronger
    impact.

l Inappropriate preparation timing. The team started preparing IISDL in March 1999, when the
    previous adjustment operation (TPI-SAL) was still ongoing. Preparation of IISDL started, respectively,
    ten months and twenty-two months before the expected and actual date of disbursement of the second
    tranche of TPI-SAL. This had three adverse consequences: a) it increased preparation costs and time;
    b) the team was rushed into identifying measures to fit into the design of the operation, without
    allowing time for the Government, the Bank, and major stakeholders to develop a solid reform path in
    the course of the TPI-SAL underway; and c) the two tranches were reduced to one tranche on short
    notice late during project preparation, which did not match the objectives and risks of the reforms being
    supported.

These three major faults in project design could not be fully compensated by other positive features of
project preparation, namely:

l Close working relationship with African Development Bank. ADB maintained the structure of their
    operation in two tranches, which gave the World Bank team some opportunity to jointly supervise the
    overall program and have some minimal leverage through their second tranche. The two teams worked
    well together, and supported each other in the various phases of the program, continuing a relationship
    successfully started under TPI-SAL.

l Intense sector dialogue. The team provided high-level comments on the license and tender documents
    for the privatization of Maroc Telecom. These comments were taken into account by the Government
    and helped improve the license text. The team also engaged in a dialogue, then successfully continued
    during supervision, on all major aspects of sector reform, including competition, regulatory reform,
    rural access, and postal and IT strategy. As a result of the ongoing sector dialogue, the Bank is trusted
    by our Moroccan counterparts as a serious and credible interlocutor;

l Provision of high quality technical assistance. Grant technical assistance was provided in the areas of
    e-commerce regulation, e-government, and postal sector reform. A specialized European law firm
    assisted SEPTI in drafting the law on digital signature, which incorporates good international practice.
    In the area of e-government, technical assistance was provided at the design stage. In the postal sector
    reform area, technical assistance was provided to the Government to prepare a postal sector policy.

7.2 Supervision:


Overall project supervision performance was satisfactory. The supervision team placed an effort in
keeping the policy dialogue open through the provision of comments on the amendments to Law 24-96 and
through intense discussions on competition and regulatory reform. Use of budget resources by the
supervision team was appropriate.

The comments of the Bank team to an earlier version of the amendments to Law 24-96 contributed,
together with other factors (internal political pressure), to a substantial improvement of the draft, in which
the amendments that would have seriously compromised ANRT's autonomy were eliminated.




                                                     - 18 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Overall Bank performance was satisfactory, due to : a) numerous efforts of the project team during
preparation and supervision to maintain a robust policy dialogue, notwithstanding constraining
management decisions and a deteriorating institutional environment in Morocco; and b) high-level expert
advice and technical assistance provided throughout preparation and supervision of the project.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory overall. The operation was tied to
the broad strategic reform objectives of the Government. The Government demonstrated commitment and
credibility in privatizing Maroc Telecom, which elicited investor interest. During the privatization of Maroc
Telecom, however, some initial signs of deterioration of the institutional environment occurred. On some
occasions, the Government tried to stifle ANRT's autonomy. For example, ANRT originally drafted the
cahier des charges of Maroc Telecom along three different licenses, for fixed services, mobile, and
Internet. ANRT was correctly convinced that this structural separation would have reduced the risk of
anticompetitive behavior, and would have allowed better monitoring by ANRT of Maroc Telecom's
activities in the different market segments. However, the Government overruled ANRT's decision on the
three licenses.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Overall Borrower's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory, even though it presented some
shortcomings. The basis for the rating is the following: a) after a slow start, the implementation of the
reform process in postal and IT services was satisfactory, under the leadership of the Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Telecommunications; and b) credit needs to be given to the Government for having identified the
institutional conflict between SEPTI and ANRT as an obstacle to implementation. The Government's
decision to incorporate SEPTI into the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Telecommunications helped
substantially to accelerate sector reform in these areas.

The following shortcomings reduced Government implementation performance: a) attempts to stifle
ANRT's autonomy, as shown by the draft law approved by the Council of Government and submitted to
the Bank in a letter from the Government dated December 14, 2001 (the draft was later revised due largely
to specific Bank inputs); b) institutional conflict, as shown, for example, by serious differences between
ANRT and the Government on the text of Maroc Telecom's license and the text for the SNO; c) poor
design of the SNO license (see Section 4.2(b)); and d) substantial delay in enacting changes to the
telecommunications law (see section 4(d) above).


7.6 Implementing Agency:


ANRT's performance was overall satisfactory. For example, ANRT initially proposed to the Government
draft licenses for Maroc Telecom and the SNO that would guarantee fair competition conditions in the
telecommunications market and attract investor interest. However, ANRT's effectiveness has declined in
recent years. After an impressive start that contributed in a decisive manner to the successful award of the
second mobile license, ANRT found increasing difficulty in carrying out its functions. The effectiveness of
ANRT increased again in 2003-2004, due a renewed impetus in promoting liberalization, and to a



                                                     - 19 -

proactive role in tackling key sector shortcomings, such as fair competition, access to essential
infrastructure, and universal service.

SEPTI's performance in the postal sector was unsatisfactory, as sector reform at a policy level did not
advance. The delay in preparing the new sector law was mainly due to a lack of resources made available
to SEPTI's postal team as their work was probably viewed as a secondary priority after
telecommunications reform.

BAM's performance in modernizing the company was highly satisfactory (see Section 4.2(i)).

SEPTI's performance in information technologies was satisfactory, as concrete progress occurred
especially   after   SEPTI    was    incorporated     into   the   Ministry  of  Industry,    Commerce    and
Telecommunications. For example, SEPTI's staff had prepared a very satisfactory draft e-commerce law,
incorporating good international practise, as early as 2000. It was the Government's political decision not
to advance this draft until recently, after SEPTI was brought into the sector ministry.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory, due to the broadly positive performance of the
implementing agencies. Overall, ANRT's performance was broadly positive and SEPTTI's performance in
IT improved during the life of the project. BAM's efforts in modernizing the company were highly
satisfactory. The Government's commitment to advancing sector reform, however, showed limited results,
especially in the competition and regulatory reform areas. The recent institutional change, which
incorporated SEPTI under the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Telecommunications substantially improved
Borrower's performance.


8. Lessons Learned

Adjustment lending in itself, with its focus on policy dialogue and reform, is an appropriate tool to engage a
government in telecommunications sector reform, when the project supports a champion or proponent of
reform within the government. But support needs to be broadened in order for reforms to be sustainable.
This is the experience of the previous adjustment operation (TPI-SAL), and of the privatization component
of IISDL. The renewed interest in the IT component is also related to the interest and commitment of the
new Minister of Industry, Trade and Telecommunications. For two years, IISDL implementation had no
clear champion of reform, and delays occurred. While the identification of a clear leader is a legitimate tool
to jumpstart reform, it may need to be complemented by broader stakeholder participation and buy-in to be
sustainable. The experience of IISDL also indicates that the effectiveness of adjustment operations can be
increased if technical assistance is available to assist in the design and implementation of the reforms.

The risk that personal conflicts may affect the course of reform should be mitigated through solid
institution building and transparent processes. During the implementation of IISDL, personal relationships,
more than the institutional setting, played a crucial role in fostering and then stopping reform (this is also
consistent with existing studies on telecommunications reform in Morocco. See Wilhelm and Mueller,
2003, and Tosi Hibon, Critique Internationale, January 2002). In addition, the experience of IISDL and
TPI-SAL indicate that reforms related to transactions with a large "price tag" are more likely to activate the
necessary political interests and incentives for change to take place. This experience indicates some lessons
for future assistance in fostering regulatory reform in telecommunications: (i) under IISDL an even higher



                                                      - 20 -

emphasis should have been put on transparent decision making processes, requiring the involvement of the
private sector and of the beneficiaries of reform in project design; (ii) because the risk of personal and
institutional conflict is a serious challenge to the sustainability of reform, sector dialogue should be focused
on eliminating the roots of the conflict of interest for the Government, and minimizing the occasions for
personal conflict to arise. The establishment of ANRT as an autonomous entity could have been
accompanied by the merger of the sector ministry in a larger Ministry. The Bank could have placed a
stronger emphasis on separating the dual interest of the Government as owner of Maroc Telecom, and
members of the Board of ANRT (some ministers still sit on both boards) before supporting the
privatization transaction.

When supporting privatization of a state-owned enterprise in a non-competitive sector, consideration should
be given to accompanying measures that may be required to monitor and mitigate the risks of consolidation
and abuse of dominant position. Privatization always has the risk of reinforcing the dominant position of
the incumbent operator in the sector. In this sense, the Bank supported sector reform through the previous
TPI-SAL which focused on the establishment of competition in the cellular market before privatization of
the incumbent. Privatization should be accompanied, or preceded, by credible measures aimed at
strengthening competition. In IISDL, the award of new licenses (under the old second tranche of the
operation) was meant to provide this safeguard (see Annex 11).              When moving to a single tranche
operation, other measures could have been considered that could have limited the anticompetitive
developments that took place in the Internet and data markets. These could have included: (i) measures that
allowed for the monitoring and sanctioning of predatory pricing and cross-subsidies; (ii) detailed provision
of enforcement instruments to allow the regulator to sanction anticompetitive behavior; and (iii)
introduction of full competition in international voice and data communications in conjunction with the
privatization transaction.

In the postal sector as in many infrastructure sectors, governments and incumbent operators tend to
overstate the importance of universal service costs. The Bank should have been more firm in suggesting
gradual liberalization, while carrying studies to assess the cost of universal service. With limited resources
for building up postal expertise within the administration, policy makers are slow to initiate reforms on the
grounds that they lack market structure and cost information. Incumbents should not be the sole source of
information and policy dialogue.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

In the postal sector, SEPTI has: a) supported and encouraged BAM to increase its operational, managerial
and technical performance; b) undertaken a study on the cost of postal universal service, and c) prepared a
draft postal law. SEPTI is also part of the steering committee for the study of the Ministry of Finance and
Privatization on postal financial services.

In the area of telecommunications, the Government has awarded to private investors a second GSM license,
three VSAT licenses, seven GMPCS licenses and two 3RP licenses (radio trunking). It made an effort to
award a Second National Operator license, but it was not able to attract investor interest. The following
actions were also undertaken: a) improvements in the regulatory framework; b) a new technical and tariff
interconnection offer to Maroc Telecom's fixed network; c) a strategic study on sector liberalization; d)
successful opening of the capital of Maroc Telecom; and d) development of GSM and Internet platforms.

In addition, Morocco is about to finalize a Free Trade Agreement with the USA with the aims of: a)



                                                      - 21 -

harmonizing national regulation with international trends; b) increasing competition in the sector; c)
attracting investment; d) enhancing competitiveness of domestic firms; and e) strengthening the role of
Morocco as a regional platform in telecommunications.

In the area of IT, considerable progress was achieved in the following areas: a) the Technopark (the
Technopark has attracted over 130 ICT companies, operates close to full capacity, and has developed new
services and international events to support Moroccan ICT firms); b) the Bouznika Technopole
(finalization of the feasibility study, negotiation with private groups for the management of the Technopole,
etc.); c) e-commerce (implementation of an e-commerce platform through open and competitive bidding;
market studies; draft laws on electronic signature, data messages, and privacy); d) e-government (studies to
establish an ICT observatory; studies and other activities to implement a national portal and municipal
portals; implementation of a management system for pilot administrative procedures; an Intranet system for
the Government; and a pilot interconnection platform for e-government); e) establishment of digital public
access points; f) digital content development; and g) development of the Marwan network.


(b) Cofinanciers:

The African Development Bank has transmitted the following comments:

The IISDL program did not achieve the same success as the previous TPI-SAL operation. This operation,
for which the second AfDB tranche has not been disbursed less than one month from project closing, has
been hindered by the following factors:

1)       The great success of the previous operation and a favorable international environment did not allow
the parties to have enough perspective to address all the problems related to sector reform in the country,
and also did not allow them to have a broader idea on the evolution of the international market in
telecommunications. The launch of the IISDL operation well before the conclusion of the previous
adjustment program reflects the considerable optimism of all parties at the time of project preparation;

2)       The government has slowed down in the implementation of the agreed reforms. The success of the
previous operation generated considerable international and national interest in the three subsectors,
resulting in different views on how the reforms should be carried out, especially in the context of an
unfavorable international environment. The delay in the implementation of regulatory texts and the content
of the bidding documents for the second fixed license reflect this situation.

3)       The short timeframe for the implementation of the program did not allow the necessary time for
continuing the necessary policy dialogue. A longer timeframe would have perhaps made possible the
implementation of the second tranche measures of the ADB operation.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

NA.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of the population with access to a 96% (2003)                              96% (2003)
phone (fixed, cellular, payphones)

Number of lines outside 2 main cities           1,010,000 (2003)                      617,135 (2002)

E-commerce development : revenue of             50 (2003)                             E-commerce is still at a very early stage in
domestically generated and processed                                                  Morocco. Esrimates based on Royal Air
e-commerce transactions (US$ millions)                                                Maroc and Maroc Telecommerce turnovers
                                                                                      indicate that the volume of e-commerce
                                                                                      transactions is still below US$1 million.
Access to Postal services : Number of postal
counters per 10,000 inhabitants :
- in urban areas                                1.00 (2003)                           1.13 (2003) /2
- in rural areas                                0.92 (2003)                           1.03 (2003) /2

Percentage of the employees of the public       10% (2003)                            0%, as the inter-administration networks are
administration connected to                                                           still being established on a pilot basis.
inter-administration networks

1End of project. Note that the figures in the second column are forecasts from the President's Report.
2These estimates were provided after those listed in the final PSR.
Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Internet Users : number of dial up and          1,000,000 (2003)                      800,000 (2003)
dedicated line customers


Price of International calls : price of 3 minute$0.28 (2003)                          $1.05 (2003)
phone call to Paris Plein Tariffs


Price in US$ of international leased lines (2   $2,000 (2003)                         $25,000 (2003)
Mbps month) to London


Fault rate : number of faults per 100 lines per 12 (2003)                             19.5 (2002)
year


Usage of Postal services : yearly increase in   2% (2003)                             1.53% (2002)
traffic volume of letter mail per inhabitant


Usage of Postal Services : yearly increase in   20% (2003)                            16.5% (2002)
traffic volume of national express


Postal financial services : yearly increase in  10% (2003)                            11.0% (2003)
total deposits


Letter mail : percent delivered on day 2 (from  80% (2003)                            65.0% (2003)
end to end)


Postal productivity : annual increase in value  3.41% (2003)                          24.0% (2003)
added per employee


Postal sector investment : volume of net        210,250 (2003)                        218,000 (2003)
investments (in thousands of DH)

1End of project
The figures in the second column are forecasts from the President's Report.




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable as this was an adjustment operation.




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable as this was an adjustment operation.




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              03/20/1999                5    1 Sector Manager, 1 Task Team
                                             Leader, 1 Regulatory Economist,
                                             1 Postal Consultant, 1 Economist

              07/25/1999              10     1 Sector Manager, 1 Task Team
                                             Leader, 1 Lead PSD Specialist, 1
                                             Telecommunications Advisor, 1
                                             Telecommunications Specialist, 1
                                             Postal Financial Expert, 1
                                             Regulatory Economist, 2 Postal
                                             Spcialists, 1 Program Assistant

              09/25/1999                2    1 Telecommunications Advisor,
                                             1 Regulatory Economist

              11/22/1999                7    1 Task Team Leader, , 1 Lead
                                             PSD Specialist, 1
                                             Telecommunications Advisor, 1
                                             Regulatory Economist, 1 Postal
                                             Policy Specialist, 1 Postal
                                             Financial Expert, 1 Financial
                                             Sector Specialist

              03/10/2000                7    1 Sector Manager, 1 Lead PSD
                                             Specialist, 1 Task Team Leader,
                                             1 Telecommunications Advisor,
                                             1 Regulatory Economist, 1 Postal
                                             Policy Specialist, 1 Postal
                                             Financial Expert


 Appraisal/Negotiation

              05/24/2000                4    1 Task Team Leader, 1 Lead
                                             PSD Specialist, 1
                                             Telecommunications Advisor, 1
                                             Regulatory Economist

              01/19/2001                2    1 Sector Manager, 1 Lead PSD
                                             Specialist

              03/30/2001                5    1 Lead PSD Specialist, 1
                                             Regulatory Economist, 1 Postal
                                             Policy Specialist, 1 Postal



                                              - 26 -

                                                   Consultant, 1 E-government
                                                   Consultant


 Supervision

               05/10/2002                     3    1 Task Team Leader, 1 Postal         U       S
                                                   Policy Specialist, 1
                                                   Telecommunications Specialist
               08/10/2002                     2    1 Sector Manager, 1 Task Team        S       S
                                                   Leader
               12/16/2002                     1    1 Sector Manager                     S       S
               06/28/2003                     3    1 Task Team Leader, 1                S       S
                                                   Telecommunications Specialist, 1
                                                   Postal Policy Specialist


 ICR
               10/27/2003                    4     1 Task Team Leader, 1                S       S
                                                   Telecommunications
                                                   Specialist, 1 Postal Policy
                                                   Specialist, 1 Program
                                                   Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    151                              718
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                      9                             149
  ICR                                             12                              68
  Total                                         172                              935
The SAP system combines the data for Appraisal/Negotation with Identification/Preparation. An
additional amount of $226,000 in trust funds was utilized prior to project supervision.




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Draft cahier des charges for IAM (Maroc Telecom), 2000
2. Report and Recommendation of the President, April 16, 2001
3. Country Assistance Strategy, May 7, 2001
4. Quality at Entry Assessment, June 2001
5. Implementation Completion Report for Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector
Adjustment Loan, June 21, 2001
6. Project Aide Memoires
7. Project Supervision Reports (PSRs)
8. Back to Office Reports
9. Loan Agreement, April 12, 2002
10. Law No. 79-99 of 22 June 2001, amending Law No. 24-96 of 7 August 1997.
11. Law No. 55-01 (draft) as adopted by Conseil des Ministres on 16 April 2004, amending and
completing Law No. 24-96 of 7 August 1997.
12. ANRT, Analyse de l'Offre ADSL d'IAM, Synthese de l'Etude, undated
13. ANRT, Rapport d'Activité 2002
14. Kok report - "Étude du secteur postal" - April 2001
15. Debbarh and Scher report - "Situation et perspective d'évolution des services financiers postaux au
Maroc" - July 2001
16. Andersen Legal report - "Travaux d'études portant sur la stratégie sectorielle de la poste au Maroc" -
August 2001
17. De Donder report - "Étude sur le coût du service universel au Maroc" - June 2002
18. Contrat-Programme 2002-2004 entre Barid Al Maghrib et l'État
19. Réalisation du Contrat-Programme pour 2002.
20. Beatrice Hibou and Mohamed Tozy, "La Liberalisation des telecoms au Maroc", in Critique
Internationale--Presses de Science Po, No. 14, January 2002.
21. Vera Wilhelm and Suzanne Mueller, The Ingredients of Capacity Enhancement. Three Case Studies in
Telecommunications. WBI Working Paper
22. Arab Human Development Report 2003. Building a Knowledge Society, New York, 2003.




                                                   - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Sector Performance

Telecommunications

Telecommunications revenues as a percentage of GDP, which were stagnant at 1.90%-2.08% between
1995 and 1998, increased substantially between 1999 and 2002. From 2000 onwards, revenues more than
doubled to reach 4.29% in 2002. This growth was mainly due to the introduction of competition in the
cellular market. Mobile penetration, following the introduction of competition, increased dramatically, from
0.4% in 1998 to 21.97% in 2003, an incredible 50-fold increase in just four years.

Part of this substantial mobile growth took place at the expense of fixed line penetration. The number of
fixed lines, from a peak of 1,472,000 lines in 2000, decreased to 1,127,000 in 2002. As a result, fixed line
penetration was reduced from 5.21% in 2000, to 3.8% in 2003. The ratio of mobile to fixed customers
went from 0.25 in 2000 to an estimated 5.77 in May 2003.

The increase in mobile penetration drove telecommunications access upwards throughout Morocco. From a
total of 1,835,000 customers (fixed and mobile), in 2000, the overall number of customers increased to
over 7,637,000 by May 2003. As a result, the waiting list, which was still 0.95% of total connected
customers in 1999 at the time competition in mobile was introduced, was eliminated shortly afterward.

A certain degree of tariff rebalancing occurred from 1999. Prices of international calls were reduced from
5.6Dh/min., to 3.5 Dh/min., for a call to Paris. Local rates were slightly increased in 2002, from
0.8Dh/min. to 0.83 Dh/min. Subscription rates were also increased from 60Dh/months to 70Dh/ month in
2002. The fault rate decreased from 32 faults per 100 lines per year to 19.5 faults per 100 lines per year in
2002.

Table 1
Morocco Basic Telecommunications Indicators                   1995         1996        1997        1998   1999   2000    2001     2002 2003 (est.)
Telecom revenues as a % of GDP                              1.90%        1.90%        1.92%       2.08%  2.47% 3.71%   3.96%     4.29%
Main lines in operation                                 1,128,014 1,208,034 1,300,495 1,392,922 1,471,459 1,472,000 1,140,000 1,127,000 1,127,441
Fixed lines per 100 inhabitants                              4.3%          4.5%       4.8%         5.0%   5.2%  5.1%    3.9%      3.8%      3.8%
Mobile subscribers per 100 inhabitants                       0.1%          0.2%       0.3%         0.4%   1.3%  9.9%   16.7%     20.9%     22.0%
Total density (fixed + wireless customers)              1,157,525 1,250,976 1,374,967 1,503,922 1,835,459 4,324,139 5,996,562 7,325,470 7,637,417
Mobile/fixed penetration                                     3.0%          4.0%       6.0%         8.0%  25.0% 194.0%  426.0%   550.0%    577.0%
Waiting list as a % of connected subscribers                 8.2%          4.0%       2.2%         1.3%   1.0%
Cost of a local call (in DH/HT)/min                                                                        0.8     0.8     0.8     0.83     0.83
Cost of an international call to France (in DH/HT)/min (fixed to fixed)                                    5.6     4.8      4       3.5       3.5
Monthly subscription charge, residential (DH/HT/month)                                               60     65     70      70       70        70
% of digital lines                                               95         98.3        99.3        99.5   100    100     100      100       100
Faults per 100 lines per year                                                                             32%    25%     21%      20%
Source: ITU. Data provided by Rih Nada, Agence Nationale de Réglementation des Télécommunications.


The results of the introduction of competition in mobile communications allowed Morocco to assume a
leadership position in the region. Mobile penetration in Morocco in 2002 was three to four times higher
thant mobile penetration in Tunisia and Egypt. The gap in mobile penetration with other well-performing
emerging markets, such as Turkey, Chile and Malaysia, was effectively reduced.

On the other hand, the lack of competition in fixed line penetration, as well as mobile substitution, eroded
the performance of Morocco in telephone mainline penetration. Morocco's mainline penetration was 3.8%
in 2002, which compares negatively with penetration in Tunisia (11.7%), and Egypt (11.3%).




                                                                          - 31 -

This lack of progress is also apparent when looking at Internet host penetration. In 2002, the number of
Internet hosts was only 0.9 per 10,000 people. The low numbers of two regional benchmarks (Tunisia and
Egypt) should not divert the attention from the serious gap that Morocco (and the rest of the MENA region)
has in terms of Internet penetration.The number of hosts per capita is about 50 times higher in Malaysia
than in Morocco. Turkey has also about 25 times more hosts than Morocco. High leased line prices (Table
4) are a likely factor behind this limited development, which has a potential adverse impact on Morocco's
overall competitiveness.

Table 2


                                        Telephone Telephone                Mobile         Internet
                                        mainlines       mainlines         phones       hosts (per
                                          (per 100               per (per 100              10,000
                           2002            people) employee*              people)         people)
Morocco                                         3.8               74         20.9             0.5
Chile                                         23.0             184           42.8            86.8
Egypt                                         11.3             122             6.9            3.1
El Salvador                                   24.1             155           13.8             0.4
Georgia                                       23.4                72         10.2             5.0
Malaysia                                      19.0             219           37.7            35.5
Portugal                                      41.9             236           81.9          290.4
Tunisia                                       11.7             143             5.1            0.1
Turkey                                        28.1             270           34.8            28.7

Source: ITU, 2003. Host data are from Network Wizards for January 2003. * 2001 data



Table 3



                                  Morocco is trailing in Internet hosts

                          100
                           90                                                                                86.8

                           80
      people               70
                           60
                           50                                                                                      Jan-00
            10,000         40                                                                     35.5             Jan-03
                                                                                      28.7
                  per      30                                                                 25.4       26.4

                           20                                                     13.5
                           10   1.60.4   0.3 0.5    0.7   3.1           5.0
                                                                    1.8
                     Hosts  0
                                   El   Morocco     Egypt          Georgia        Turkey     Malaysia     Chile
                               Salvador

 Source: Network Wizards, http://www.nw.com, accessed November 2003.




                                                                              - 32 -

Table 4 - Leased Line Market 2mb Prices

                                                          Prices remain above levels expected

     US                                       50,000
       to                                     45,000
         line                                 40,000

             leased                           35,000

                                              30,000
                   digital                    25,000
                          for                 20,000

                                              15,000
                             charge
                                              10,000

                                               5,000
                                   monthly
                                                   0
                                          US$           Morocco       Turkey     Chile     Finland      Spain    Germany       Italy     France

    Source: Tarifica, June 2002



Information Technologies

As far as information technologies are concerned, the number of PCs increased in the country, from 85,000
in 1995 to 457,000 in 2002. This brought PC penetration to 15 per 1,000 inhabitants in 2002.

The number of Internet users also increased, thanks to public access points such as cybercafes. But the lack
of progress in the ISP market was reflected in the low growth of Internet subscriptions, and especially on
the low growth in the number of Internet hosts, as indicated above.

Table 6 - Morocco Basic Information Technology Indicators
                                              MoroccoBasicInformation
                                                  Technology Indicators    1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
PCs (per 1,000 people)                                                        3         4         5         7        11        12        14        15
PCs                                                                      85,000   100,000   130,000   200,000   300,000   350,000   400,000   457,000
Television receivers                                                   4,095,560 4,245,240 4,367,937 4,466,484 4,568,286 4,784,167 4,861,667        ..
Television-equippedhouseholds                                          3,500,000 3,500,000 3,600,000 3,700,000 3,900,000 4,000,000 4,100,000 4,100,000
Internetusers                                                             1,000     1,552     6,000    40,000    50,000   200,000   400,000   500,000
Internet users (per 10,000 people)                                            0         1         2        14        18        70       137       169
Internethosts                                                               229       468       888       478       801       951     2,454     2,680
ISDN subscribers                                                              0        38       216       612      2397      6728     10000 ..
Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators 2003; ITU, WTID 2002, Birth of Broadband 2003, ITU Statistics website accessed Nov 2003


The lack of progress in the Internet market had a negative consequence on Morocco's performance in IT
compared with regional and international benchmarks (see Table 7). Morocco had 1.54 PCs per 100
inhabitants, compared to 3.06 in Tunisia, 1.71 in Egypt, 4.46 in Turkey, 11.39 in Chile, 14.68 in Malaysia,
which is now higher than the number in Portugal, an OECD country.

Similarly, the number of Internet users in Morocco, which has increased during this time period, has




                                                                                            - 33 -

nonetheless lagged behind its international competitors. The number of Internet users per capita in Morocco
is lower than the number in Egypt, is three times lower than Tunisia, four times lower than Turkey,
fourteen times lower than Chile, and nineteen times lower than Malaysia.

Coupled with the negative performance in the Internet hosts area mentioned above, the deterioration of
these basic IT indicators should be of great concern for Morocco's policymakers. Morocco's economic
competitiveness, and more broadly Morocco's human development, may be harmed by the lack of progress
in the area of IT and Internet diffusion. The insufficient progress in the area of data and fixed line
liberalization and the consolidation of market dominance in the Internet market are major reasons for this
troublesome delay.

Outside of the telecommunications and IT liberalization area, another commonly monitored IT indicator is
the number of students in engineering, mathematics, and computer science per 10,000 inhabitants.
Morocco's performance in this area is also negative, if compared with regional and international
benchmarks. The number of Morocco's students in these technical fields is 10 times lower than the number
in Tunisia and Egypt, and about 80 times lower than the number in Chile and Portugal.

Table 7 - International Benchmarks in IT
                                                                            Students in
                                                                            engineering,
                                                                        mathematics and
                                           Estimated                   computer science
                                               Internet       Internet       per 10,000
                         Number of         Users per       hosts (per   inhabitants (high
                        PC per 100              10,000         10,000        school and
     2002               inhabitants inhabitants              people)*       university)**
Morocco                            1.5           168.7            0.5                0.8
Chile                           11.9         2,375.4             86.8              61.9
Egypt                              1.7           228.5            3.1                8.1
El Salvador                        2.5             0.4            0.4                  ..
Georgia                            3.2             6.2            5.0                  ..
Malaysia                        14.7         3,196.9             35.5                  ..
Portugal                        13.4         3,554.6           290.4               63.9
Tunisia                            3.1           515.0            0.1                9.0
Turkey                             4.5           728.4           28.7                  ..

Source: ITU, 2003. * Network Wizards Jan 2003. **UNESCO, 2000.



Postal Sector

Note: No sector data are available for the postal sector as a whole, but only for the incumbent operator
Barid Al-Maghrib (BAM). Because the reserved area for BAM's exclusivity covers letter items up to 1kg,
its volume data on the letter mail segment covers that entire segment. For the other market segments
(mainly parcels and express mail), BAM's data gives only a partial view of sector volume.

The volume of ordinary letter mail has increased on annual average by 4.18% over the 1999-2002 period,
which is slightly inferior to the growth of the overall economy over this period (4.5%) but remains a
positive result that translated into increased operating revenues of 3.25% per year over 1999-2002 (against
1.4% over the 1995-1998 period), and a number of post-items posted per inhabitant reaching 8.8 in 2000
(versus 7.3 in 1996). Meanwhile express mail provided by BAM has also significantly increased in a
competitive environment, growing by an annual average of 18%.



                                                                      - 34 -

The contribution of the postal sector to the overall economy remains very limited (0.27% in 2002, versus
0.29% in 1999) but universal access has improved, both for postal and financial services. The number of
post offices has increased by 14% between 1995 and 2002 (194 new post offices) enabling better access to
the network for customers. Home delivery has also slightly improved (68.3% of total households in 2002,
versus 65.0% in 1999) while the percentage of population with no delivery has decreased from 15.0% to
11.7% over this period. With respect to postal financial services, savings and giro account deposits have
increased significantly between 1995 and 2002, by 86% for savings deposits and 47% for giro accounts.
This means that BAM has been able to attract new customers while increasing current deposits in existing
accounts.

However compared to international standards, margins of improvement remain to be realized, especially in
terms of access. Criteria such as number of inhabitants per postal employee, average area covered by a
post office, and number of inhabitants served by a post office remain significantly superior to other
countries of the region (Tunisia, Egypt) and to Southern European countries. One of the studies carried out
under IISDL (De Donder report - "Étude sur le coût du service universel au Maroc" - June 2002) suggested
that in order to meet international standards for postal universal access, the Government should look at
extending access, notably through franchised post offices. In addition, quality of service measured as
delivery time has not reached the target forecast at Boare approval: only 65% of the letter-items deposited
in the postal system are delivered by the next day (see output indicators table in Annex 1). BAM still needs
to improve its transport and delivery system in order to achieve a delivery time comparable to international
best practice (95% of letter-items delivered the next day).

BAM's financial balance has improved significantly and productivity has picked up over the course of the
operation, enabling the company to fund its own investment plan as well as a retrenchment plan that covers
more than 1,000 employees. BAM's investments are targeted to development of new services and to
improvement in quality of service.

Table 8 - Morocco Basic Postal Indicators

Morocco Basic Postal Indicators                     1995    1996   1997    1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
Total postal revenues (US$ million)                   82.5    73.8     88    87.1  100.8  101.4  108.9   113.0
Postal revenues as a % of GDP                         .25%   .20%    .26%   .29%   .29%   .28%   .28%    .27%
Total operating and investment expenditures (US$     109.5    99.7    92.5   83.9   99.4  134.5  127.7   139.7
million)
Profits or losses (revenues less expenditures) (US$    -27   -25.9    -4.4    3.2    1.4   10.3   14.7     9.2
million)
Total number of postal staff                         9,075   8,699   9,064  9,787  8,832  8,973  8,983   8,984
No. of inhabitants per postal employee               2,987   3,175   2,978  2,838  3,170  3,198     na   3.449
Number of permanent offices                          1,401   1,425   1,454  1,469  1,498  1,569  1,577   1,595
Average area covered by a permanent office (km2)       319    313     307    304    298    284    283     280
Average number of inhabitants served by permanent   19,350  19,382  18,782 18,910 18,851 18,298 18,497  19,428
office
Number of letter boxes (mailboxes)                   3,080   3,234   3,397  3,564  3,737  3,809  3,850   4,022
Average no. of deliveries per day in urban areas         2       2      2      1      1      1      1       1
Average no. of deliveries per week in rural areas        5       5      5      5      5      5      5       5
% of population having mail delivered at home         80%     66%     64%    65%    65%    65%      na  68.3%
% of population without postal delivery                4%      6%      6%    15%    15%    15%      na  11.7%
Average number of letter-post items posted per         7.57   7.53    7.76   7.72   7.91   8.78     na      na
inhabitant
End of year assets in postal savings accounts (US$   396.6   477.9   512.8  582.5  592.9  647.0  658.0   741.0
million)
End of year assets in postal checking accounts       518.1   489.6   461.1  480.1  575.9  623.0  657.0   764.0
(US$ million)
Source : UPU, BAM, WB, IMF



                                                           - 35 -

Table 9 - International Postal Benchmarks

                                                                                       Average
                            Average         Average                          Average    number                      Average
                                area      number of                        number of           of   Percentage     number of
                  No. of covered by      inhabitants                        deliveries deliveries         of the   letter-post
            inhabitants            a     served by a                      per working per week       population items posted
             per postal permanent        permanent          Number of day in urban       in rural without postal          per
   2002      employee office (km²)             office      letter-boxes         areas      areas       delivery    inhabitant
Morocco          3,449          280         19,428               4,022              1          5          11.7         8.78*
Tunisia          1,078          135           7,979              3,861              1          6            0.0        11.68
Egypt            1,722          183         12,820             17,942               1          6            0.0          3.37
Turkey           2,035          174         15,728             79,513               1          1            0.0     12.38**
Chile            2,913        1,851         38,115                 860              1        NA             0.0        17.78
Malaysia         1,607          273         19,085               4,726              1          6            0.0           NA
Portugal           611           24           2,622            18,573               1          5            0.0      158.64
Ireland            384           40           2,196              6,200              1          5            0.0      196.24
Source: UPU 2003, accessed Nov 2003 via www.upu.int. * 2000 data. ** 2001 data.




                                                         - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Key Information Infrastructure Progress Measures


  Sector and Topic       Achievements at            Planned Measures           Status at ICR
                            April 2001              assessed at Board        (end-April 2004)
                                                  Presentation (31 May
                                                           2001)
                               Telecommunications
Privatization         35% of IAM sold to          Share sale to           In conjunction with the
                      strategic investor          employees (2001)        initial privatization in
                      (02/01)                     IPO on Casablanca       2001, employees were
                                                  and international       offered a bonus in
                                                  exchanges (2002);       cash or shares. There
                                                  IPO calendar*           was no subsequent
                                                                          share sale to
                                                                          employees.

                                                                          The IPO was
                                                                          postponed. The
                                                                          Government
                                                                          announced its
                                                                          intention to proceed to
                                                                          an IPO by end-2004.
Liberalization        Launch of services          Second international    MediTel started
                      second cellular             starts international    offering international
                      operator (04/00)            service (01/02)         services in March
                                                                          2002.
                      Award 3 VSAT
                      licenses (10/00)
                      Expressions of interest     Launch of tenders for   The original program
                      requested for new           new licenses, including approved by the Board
                      fixed licenses (03/01)      voice as of 2003        of ANRT on March 1,
                                                  (Q3/01)*                2000 was later
                                                  Award of new fixed      abandoned. The
                                                  licenses (2001-2002)    Government opted to
                                                  Award of new            award only one
                                                  international licenses  Second National
                                                  (2002)                  Operator license in the
                                                                          fall of 2002, which did
                                                                          not elicit investor
                                                                          interest. ANRT is
                                                                          leading a new effort to
                                                                          re-launch the
                                                                          liberalization process,
                                                                          which should lead to
                                                                          the introduction of
                                                                          competition in 2004.




                                            - 37 -

Universal service
                     License conditions of
                     IAM include specific
                     US obligations (10/00)
                     Amendment to telecom         Amendment approved      The amendment to
                     law drafted expanding        by government (09/01)   telecom law to expand
                     US definition (02/01)        and national assembly   the definition of
                                                  (Q1/02)                 universal service was
                                                                          not included in the
                                                                          final version of the
                                                                          amendments to Law
                                                                          24/96 to be approved
                                                                          by the Council of
                                                                          Ministers.
                     Decree establishing          Decree approved by      There are no plans to
                     new US regime                Council of              submit the draft decree
                     drafted (03/01)              Government (06/01)*     to the Council of
                                                  and Council of          Government.
                                                  Ministers (Q4/01)
Legal/regulatory     Amendment to telecom         Amendment, approved     The amendment to
framework            law drafted inter alia       by government (06/01)   give the power to
                     to strengthen ANRT's         and national assembly   ANRT to impose
                     enforcement powers           (Q1/02), enters into    sanctions was
                     (02/01)                      force (Q2/02);          approved by the
                                                  substantial progress*   Council of
                                                                          Government in June
                                                                          2003, and is expected
                                                                          to be presented to the
                                                                          Council of Ministers.
                     Parliament approves          Bill enters into force  The bill entered into
                     bill relaxing financial      (Q3/01)*                force on 22 June 2001.
                     controls on ANRT
                     (04/01)
                                                  New interconnection     Maroc Telecom
                                                  offer approved by       presented a new
                                                  ANRT (06/01)            interconnection offer
                                                                          to ANRT in 2001.
                                                                          Despite extensive
                                                                          negotiations in 2001
                                                                          and 2002, an
                                                                          agreement was not
                                                                          reached. A new
                                                                          interconnection offer
                                                                          was approved by
                                                                          ANRT in 2004.
                     TOR and funding for          Adjustment of           The decree adjusting



                                            - 38 -

                    study on tarification of     spectrum fees to cost    spectrum fees to
                    spectrum rights              of spectrum              reflect the cost of
                    (04/01)                      management and           spectrum management
                                                 regulation (03/02)       and regulation was
                                                                          approved by SEPTI
                                                                          and the Ministry of
                                                                          Finance and sent to the
                                                                          Secretary General of
                                                                          Government only in
                                                                          early 2003, and has
                                                                          not yet been cleared.
                              Information Society
Legislation         Bill on electronic           Bill approved by         Resubmitted to
                    signature and                Council of               Secretary General of
                    certification drafted        Government (Q4/01),      Government in June
                    (08/00)                      Council of Ministers     2003.
                                                 (Q1/02) and
                                                 Parliament (Q3/02)
                    Selection of Pilot           Effective launch of      Effective launch
                    Project for                  pilot project*           confirmed in a letter
                    Administration-on-                                    dated 1 August 2003
                    Line (03/01)                                          from Ministry of
                                                                          Finances to ADB.
                    Establishment of             Effective launch of      Activities in the
                    cyberparks                   activities in the        Casablanca cyberpark
                                                 Casablanca               launched in June
                                                 cyberpark*               2001.
                    Signature of                 At least 15              At least 15
                    agreements to foster         cooperatives have        cooperatives organized
                    use by cooperatives of       started using            into 3 groupements
                    e-commerce                   e-commerce*              d'intérêt économique
                                                                          have been using
                                                                          e-commerce since June
                                                                          2001.
                                  Postal Sector
Legal/regulatory    Completion of study          Validation of study by   SEPTI initiated an
framework           on the postal sector         SEPTI*                   additional study
                    (04/01)                      Draft postal law         relative to postal
                                                 covering: universal      universal service;
                                                 service, reserved        draft law to be
                                                 service, liberalization  finalized upon
                                                 schedule, regulatory     completion of the new
                                                 body, reform of BAM      study (end-2004).
                                                 legal status (Q4/01)
Operator/Owner      2000-2004 program            Signature of program     Program contract for
relationship        contract agreed              contract (Q2/01)*        2002-2004; annual
                    between BAM and the                                   report on program
                    State providing greater                               contract realization for



                                           - 39 -

                               transparency in their                                2002 completed, in
                               relationship (08/00)                                 progress for 2003.

BAM restructuring              Completion of first          Validation of study by  Thorough
                               phase of BAM                 BAM management.*        reorganization of
                               restructuring study          Thorough                BAM implemented;
                               (04/01)                      reorganization,         creation of a
                                                            including, possibly,    subsidiary for express
                                                            subsidiaries for the    mail activities.
                                                            main activities.

                                                            Signing of the          Program contract
                                                            performance contract    signed for 2002-2004.
                                                            between the State and
                                                            BAM.
Financial services             TOR for major study          Launching of the        Launching of the
                               on development of            study by the Treasury   study in November
                               postal financial             (2001)*                 2003.
                               services (05/00)

Dates in the center column are World Bank estimates at the time of Board approval. Where date is in bold
italics, it figures in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy.
* indicates this is also a second tranche condition of the ADB loan.




                                                     - 40 -

Additional Annex 10. Liberalization Schedule Originally Approved by ANRT's Board in
March 2000

2000: 3RP licenses ("reseaux radioelectriques a ressources partagees") (Note: These licenses comprise
fleet, dispatach, trunking, and other data and voice applications of radio communication for closed user
groups sharing certain parts of the spectrum.)

2001: A national telecommunications license allowing sale of all services excluding voice and with
obligation to supply on demand a bandwidth of at least 2 megabits per second. The sale of public
telephony services will be allowed under this license as of December 2002.

2001: An interurban telecommunications license allowing sale of all services excluding voice and with
obligation to supply on demand a bandwidth of at least 2 megabits per second. The sale of public
telephony services will be allowed under this license as of December 2002.

2001: At least one local telecommunications license per region allowing sale of all services excluding voice
and with obligation to supply on demand a bandwidth of at least 2 megabits per second. The sale of public
telephony services will be allowed under these licenses as of December 2002.

2002: An international telecommunications license allowing sale of all services.

2002: Several universal service licenses according to needs to be established.

Taken from minutes of ANRT's board meeting of 1 March 2000 (unofficial translation).




                                                    - 41 -

   Additional Annex 11. Proposed Policy Matrix for IISDL of 27 November 2000

                 PROJET de Matrice des Objectifs et Mesures de Politique
              Projet de Développement des Infrastructures de l'Information
         (Révisée à l`issue de la réunion de synthèse de la mission d'evaluation
                                      du projet PDSII Mai 2000 )

   REVISEE LE 27 NOVEMBRE 2000




   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
   Objectif                Première tranche                                 Deuxième tranche
Privatiser     2.13.     Distribution du questionnaire     2.13. Signature par le Premier Ministre du décret
l'IAM          et du mémorandum d'information à des        de cession de X pour cent du capital de IAM au
               investisseurs stratégiques qualifiés ayant  partenaire stratégique. (d'ici décembre 2000)
               exprimé un intérêt pour une prise de
               participation au capital de l'entreprise.


               Statut : Documents distribués le 24
               mars, suite à l'appel à manifestation
               d'intérêt lancé le 22 mars 2000

               2.13.     Lancement de l'appel d'offres
               pour la privatisation d'IAM avec un
               dossier incluant notamment :
                      (a )les termes et conditions (cahier
                      des charges) de la privatisation
                      d'IAM.
                             (b) le pacte d'actionnaires,
                      assurant le transfert du contrôle de
                      la gestion d'IAM à l'investisseur
                      stratégique. (juin 2000)
                             (c)les engagements de
                      services du partenaire stratégique
                     (d) le nouveau Cahier des Charges
                     d'IAM reflétant la stratégie
                     sectorielle du Gouvernement.




                                                     - 42 -

    Objectif                   Première tranche                              Deuxième tranche
Renforcer la      2.13.    Adoption par le Gouvernement       2.13.      Notification par le Premier Ministre
concurrence       (Conseil d'Administration de l'ANRT) du     aux adjudicataires des licences (suite à un
dans les services programme d'octroi de licences pour         appel à la concurrence) de la possibilité
de                différents segments du marché des           d'ouverture de service pour :
télécommunica-t   télécommunications durant les années 2000   .  au moins une licence de
ions et les       et 2001. (1er Mars 2000                     télécommunications locales (boucle locale),et
infrastructures                                               de
                  Statut : Adopté.                            .  soit une licence pour les services
                                                              interurbains (backbone) [soit une licence pour
                  2.13.    Octroi d'une licence GMPCS, y      un deuxième opérateur national].
                  compris services de transport de voix, dans
                  le cadre d'un appel à la concurrence. (juin
                  2000).                                      Les termes de ces licences incluent entre autres
                                                              :  (a) l'accès au réseau et la fourniture de
                  Statut : Opérateur sélectionné, décret en   capacité     louée     aux      opérateurs      de
                  cours de préparation par l'ANRT             télécommunications, prestataires de service et
                                                              réseaux indépendants ; (b) des réseaux et
                  2.13.    Publication par IAM d'une offre    services de données aux utilisateurs finals ; (c)
                  révisée d'interconnexion approuvée par      la fourniture à qui le demande d'un débit d'au
                  ANRT. (d'ici fin juin 2000) .               moins 2 Mbits par seconde, et (d) tout autre
                                                              type de service, y compris le service de voix
                  Statut : En cours d'élaboration             [au 1er janvier 2002/en 2002].        (Septembre
                                                              2001) .
Étendre l'accès   2.13.    Définition dans le cahier des      2.3. [Adoption par le Conseil des Ministres /
aux services à    charges de IAM des obligations éventuelles  Promulgation d'un décret sur ..] un régime
des prix          incombant à cet opérateur en matière de     pour la prestation du service universel et
abordables pour   service universel.                          l'aménagement du territoire, y compris
tous les                                                      [calendrier], définition de la portée initiale des
segments de la    Statut : En cours d'élaboration.            services, procédures pour déterminer les tarifs,
population.                                                   responsabilité en matière de prestation, sources
                                                              de financement, et mécanisme de marché pour
                                                              déterminer et allouer toute subvention requise.
                  2.13.    Définition des éléments clés du    (2ème semestre 2000).
                  régime pour la prestation du service
                  universel.

                  Statut : En cours d'élaboration




                                                      - 43 -

   TECHNOLOGIES DE L' INFORMATION
    Objectif                 Première tranche                                 Deuxième tranche

Développer    1.12. Approbation par la Commission             2.13.        [Présentation au Parlement] d'un

un cadre      interministérielle sur les messages de données  projet de Loi sur les Messages de Données.

juridique et  d'un projet de Loi sur les Messages de          (novembre 2000).
réglemen-tai  Données, y compris principes sur la
re adéquat    reconnaissance de la signature électronique.
pour les TI.  (juin 2000)

Développer     1.13. [Lancement de l'appel d'offre] de la     2.13.        Validation par le Gouvernement des

des réseaux    [première/deuxième] phase de l'étude sur       conclusions et recommandations de l'étude sur

inter-admini   l'initiative « Administration en ligne (AEL)   l'initiative AEL. (décembre 2000.).

stra-tions     » pour le compte de la commission              2.10. Lancement d'un projet pilote pour
               inter-ministérielle sur l'AeL. (mars / juillet l'initiative AEL.(1er semestre 2001)
               2000).




                                                   - 44 -

   SECTEUR POSTAL
    Objectif                 Première tranche                                      Deuxième tranche
Elaboration    1.141. [Lancement] par SEPTI d'une étude          2.11. Soumission au Conseil des Ministres
d'une          qui servira de base à la stratégie nationale      des textes de loi et/ou des dispositifs
stratégie      pour le développement du secteur postal.          juridiques visant à : (a) définir les obligations
nationale      (Démarrage de l'étude prévue pour début           de service public, leur portée et leurs coûts,
pour la        juillet)                                          les modalités des mécanismes d'exécution et
modernisa-ti                                                     de financement ; (b)définir un plan et un
on du          Statut : Appel d'offres déjà lancé le 6 avril     calendrier pour la libéralisation du marché y
secteur        2000....                                          compris une participation accrue des
                                                                 prestataires privés ; (c) définir un statut
                                                                 juridique pour BAM qui lui permette
                                                                 d'opérer efficacement dans une situation de
                                                                 concurrence; et (d) établir le cadre de
                                                                 réglementation requis.(septembre 2001).
   Moderniser  1.152. Lancement par BAM d'une [étude]           2.12. Démarrage de la mise en oeuvre par BAM
   l'opérateur visant à mettre en oeuvre une stratégie          d'une stratégie d'entreprise visant à renforcer
   postal BAM  d'entreprise axée sur le renforcement de         l'efficacité de l'entreprise, notamment sa
               l'efficacité de l'entreprise. ( Adjudication du restructuration, et adoption des programmes
               marché début juillet 2000 ; démarrage de         [d'investissement], de recrutement et de formation
               l'étude Septembre 2000 ).                        nécessaires au succès de cette mise en oeuvre.
                                                                (septembre 2001).
               Statut : Appel d'offres déjà lancé.

Etendre la      2.13.    Finalisation des termes de référence    2.13. Lancement par le comité de pilotage de
provision       pour une étude qui servira de base à la          l'étude   qui    servira   de   base    pour   la
des services    stratégie de développement des produits          proposition : (a) d'une ou plusieurs option(s)
financiers      d'épargne et des services financiers de la       pour développer les produits d'épargne et les
par le biais    CEN et des CCP par le comité de pilotage         services financiers de la CEN et des CCP,
du réseau       dirigé par la Direction du Trésor avec la        sans toutefois introduire de distorsions indues
postal          participation du SEPTI et de BAM.. .             à une concurrence loyale au sein du système
                                                                 bancaire et financier ; et (b) d'un plan visant
                                                                 à développer l'expertise interne requise et
                 Statut .Termes de Référence discutés            l'éventail de qualifications nécessaires pour
                et finalisés                                     matérialiser les nouveaux produits et d'un
                                                                 plan axé sur l'essaimage éventuel de services
                                                                 de ce type à une institution distincte. (1er
                                                                 semestre 2001)




                                                             - 45 -

Additional Annex 12. Borrower's Report

                                                    Morocco

                         Information Infrastructure Sector Development Project

                                     Information and Completion Report

                                            Borrower's Comments

 Introduction

 The main objectives of the Program in support of Information Infrastructure Sector Development (IISD)
 in Morocco were the liberalization of the telecommunications sector, partial privatization of Maroc
 Telecom, strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework, development of the use of information
 technologies, and preparation of a strategy to modernize the postal sector.

 The program met most of its objectives and contributed to the development of the telecommunications,
 information technologies, and postal sector.

 I. Telecommunications Sector

 I.1 The liberalization process

 After the award of a second GSM license in 1999, and within the context of the ongoing sector
 liberalization process, the years 2000-2003 were particularly uneven: on the one hand, some licenses
 were successfully granted to the winning bidders, while on the other hand, the second license for fixed
 telephony could not be awarded.

 At the same time, the opening to competition advanced during this period through the introduction of
 new successful licensees. This refers to two 3RP (shared radioelectric networks) operators, Inquam
 Telecom SA and Moratel SA; and three new public telecommunications network operators using
 GMPCS satellite technology, namely European Datatom Maghreb, Soremar and Thuraya Maghreb.

 I.1.1 3RP licenses
 The shared radioelectric networks (3RP) are based on the sharing of frequencies by many users without
 the proliferation of infrastructures. They enable an effective and efficient use of frequencies, better
 planning of the frequency spectrum by resolving congestion problems in certain frequency bands, and
 the provision of telecommunications services to user groups at competitive rates. 3RP license holders
 will be able to provide infrastructures and services to meet the communications needs within a same
 fleet of users and/or facilities attributed to a single subscriber.

 Three companies established under Moroccan law, Miden SA, Inquam Telecom SA and Moratel SA,
 responded to the bid and were awarded three 3RP licenses. However, Miden SA withdrew, following the
 purchase of its assets by Inquam Telecom.

 Inquam Telecom SA is a subsidiary of the Inquam Group, whose controlling shareholders are, mainly,
 Qualcomm and Omni P61. Inquam Telecom SA counts among its partners Nextel, Qualcomm and



                                                     - 46 -

Lucent Technologies.

Inquam Telecom chose the iDEN platform, which is a mobile communications system that provides
bi-directional radiocommunications services, SMS paging, and packed-switched data transmission,
through a single integrated system. This operator plans to implement the CDMA technology within its
3RP network.

Inquam Telecom's offer will be essentially directed at transport carriers, firms with a large number of
traveling employees, administrative entities, state-owned enterprises and certain local utilities. Inquam
Telecom plans to invest a total amount of MAD 800 million in Morocco over a five-year period and to
create a total of 156 jobs.

Moratel SA plans to deploy a mobile communications network based on the Tetra standard (Terrestrial
Trunked Radio). This is an open system defined by ETSI (the European Telecom Standards Institute),
which can be used for fixed or mobile digital radiotelephony, message transmission, data transfer, and
other applications for radio users.

With its services offer, Moratel wants to target public services (public security and public enterprises)
as well as private firms (notably transportation, construction and civil engineering, paging, security, and
water and electricity distribution). Moratel plans to invest MAD 500 million and to create a total of 97
direct jobs, and 150 indirect jobs during the first year.

I.1.2 GMPCS licenses
The competitive bidding launched in 2002 focused on awarding GMPCS licenses for telephony and data
transmission services for new GMPCS systems or for systems that had not responded to invitations to
bid since 2000.

Four new public GMPCS satellite telecommunications networks will be set up and operated in
Morocco. Two of them will be based on the Inmarsat satellite system (European Datacom Maghreb SA
and Soremar SARL), the third on the Iridium satellite system (European Datacom Maghreb SA) and
finally the last one on the Thuraya satellite system (Thuraya Maghreb SA).

Inmarsat (created in 1979 as an intergovernmental organization) became a private company in 1999 and
operates a global network of satellites that are used by a worldwide group of service providers who
offer terrestrial, maritime and aeronautical mobile communications solutions. Inmarsat's satellite system
is comprised of 9 geo-stationary satellites positioned over the equator at an altitude of 36,000 km, of
which four are fully operational, ensuring a worldwide provision of Inmarsat services.

The Iridium system provides satellite personal communication services (SPCS), also known as
GMPCS, enabling digital terrestrial, maritime and aeronautical communication worldwide. The Iridium
system uses 66 low orbit satellites (LEO) at an altitude of 780 km, distributed on six orbital planes with
an incline of 86.4 degrees and has one spare satellite on each plane. The system also covers both
terrestrial poles, providing a worldwide coverage.

The Thuraya system is comprised of two geo-stationary satellites, one currently in orbital position at 44
degrees east, and the other one being kept on the ground as a back-up. The satellite covers more than 99
countries in Europe, North and Central Africa, the Middle East, Central Asia and the Indian
sub-continent.




                                                  - 47 -

I.2 The second license for fixed telecommunications

The year 2001 was mainly devoted to preparing the opening of the fixed telecommunications market. To
this end, a study on the fixed telecommunications market in Morocco was carried out to evaluate the
basic options for fixed telecommunications licenses scheduled to be issued, namely a national license, a
corporate backbone license, one or several licenses for local loops, and two international licenses.

The study sought to verify that future licenses would be viable, based on sensitivity analyses, and to
evaluate the impact of certain parameters such as duration of the license, number of licenses,
sequencing, interconnection tariffs, and other regulatory instruments.

At the same time, a call for expressions of interest was launched on March 1, 2001, in order to obtain
the opinions of potentially interested firms on the elements and options to be used in the preparation of
the cahier des charges for the licenses.

In June 2001, a one-day information seminar was organized, and the results of the study were presented.
Only the backbone license and the national license were deemed viable. The licenses for local loops were
therefore excluded from the process.

Only one license to establish and operate a fixed telecommunications public network at the local, long
distance and international levels was retained.

The bid for awarding this license was launched in June 2002. Fifteen (15) companies requested the
bidding document, but no offer was submitted by the initial deadline of October 8, 2002; the deadline
was extended to November 5, 2002, as requested by the potential candidates.

Several reasons explain the fact that the fixed telecommunications license was not awarded, notably,
among others:

§ thedepressedinternationalclimate,inparticularasregardstelecommunications.Thisalsoisshown
by the fact that only one firm among the 15 that requested the cahier des charges was a
telecommunications operator, the others being primarily international consulting firms specialized in the
field and in search of investment opportunities;
§ the level, considered high, of the geographic coverage obligations, at the opening of the service (7
towns spread throughout the national territory);
§ the operator contributions, which were considered very restrictive (universal service, training and
research); and
§ theuncertaintyastotheavailabilityofalternativeinfrastructures.

Despite the lack of interest in the second fixed license, the national telecommunications market
continued its progress, exhibiting a significant growth rate in mobile telephony. Tariffs were lowered for
several products and services, to the strong benefit of individual users and businesses. New tariff offers
were made and authorized by the regulator in order to meet the specific needs of different types of
customers.

I.3 Partial privatization of Maroc Telecom

The first phase of the opening of Maroc Telecom to private capital was achieved successfully. This
action was necessary for Maroc Telecom to be able to position itself effectively on the rapidly changing


                                                 - 48 -

domestic and global telecommunications markets. To this end, an international competitive bidding
process was launched, which led to the selection of Vivendi Universal Group as the strategic partner of
Maroc Telecom. Vivendi Universal currently holds 35% of Maroc Telecom's capital.

In the context of the implementation of the IISD, this operation was to be followed by the transfer of a
second tranche of 16% of Maroc Telecom's capital. This step should not only produce significant
public revenues, but should also enable Maroc Telecom to integrate itself into the international capital
markets.

This operation could not be executed according to the initially planned agenda, due to an international
economic situation characterized by a decline of investments in this sector during the last three years.

However, the Government is still strongly committed to the liberalization of the telecommunications
sector and the privatization of Maroc Telecom, and therefore is considering the completion of these
operations during 2004.

In any case, the first phase of privatization of Maroc Telecom and the award of new licenses have had
positive effects on the sector, notably:

§ totaldigitalizationoftelecommunicationsnetworks,
§ verystronggrowthinthenumberofmobilesubscribers,
§ awiderangeofvalue-addedservices,
§ significant choice among satellite telecommunications operators (GMPCS and VSAT) and among
Internet service providers,
§ alargernumberofservicemarketingfirms,
§ localpresenceofforeigntelecommunicationsequipmentmanufacturers,
§ significantinvestmentsinthesector,and
§ increaseofGDP.

I.4 Legal and regulatory framework

After five years in force, and in order to take into account the evolution of telecommunications operators
and user needs, it was deemed opportune to amend the law 24-96 relative to posts and
telecommunications.

These amendments have enabled implementation of a new universal service regime with a reduction in
operator contributions from 4% to 2%. They have also permitted the use of alternative infrastructure for
rapid expansion of territorial coverage with regard to fixed networks, and the implementation of
graduated sanctions to strengthen the regulatory role of ANRT (Law 55-01).

II. The Information Technologies Sector

II.1 Projects implemented
To enable a harmonious development of information technologies, several projects were implemented or
are in the process of being implemented. Among them are:

§ anationalportalandtownportals,
§ availabilityonlineofseveraladministrativeprocedures,
§ pilotgatewayofpilotinterconnection,


                                                  - 49 -

§ ICTobservatory,
§ electronicmarketplacesandprovisionofcertificationservices,
§ roll-outofadministrativewebsitesandnationalcontent,
§ computerizationofschools,
§ increaseinthecapacityoftheMarwanacademicnetworkandlinkingitwiththeGEANTnetwork,
§ revitalizationoftheCasablancatechnologypark,
§ Bouznikaindustrialpark,
§ PilotprojectrelatedtotheIntegratedManagementoftheGovernment'sHumanResources(GIPE).

II.2 Legal framework

One of the main points of the IISD Project was to assist the Government in implementing an appropriate
legal framework for developing the use of information technologies.

In this context, two draft laws are in the process of being adopted; these cover, on the one hand, data
transmission (electronic signature and certification), and on the other the protection of personal
information.

The first draft aims to secure electronic commerce and online administration transactions, and is built
upon the following points:

§ legalrecognitionofelectronicsignatureanddatatransmission,
§ rulesfortheirtransmission,
§ equivalencebetweenhandwrittensignatureandelectronicsignature,
§ equivalencebetweenhandwrittenevidenceandtheevidenceintheformofadatamessage,and
§ certificationandprovisionofcertificationservices,

The second draft concerns treatment and exchange of personal data and targets the protection of
individuals against data abuse that would be detrimental to private life.

III. Postal Sector

In order to achieve the goals of the IISD Project in the postal sector, and to ensure a sustainable and
integrated development of post at the sector level as well as at the public operator's level, efforts have
been made to upgrade the postal sector as a whole while enhancing Barid-Al-Maghrib's services and
operational performance.

 III.1 Sector strategy

 In order to outline a global vision of postal sector development, a study was undertaken to determine
 the orientations of the development strategy, in particular as regards the specification of the public
 operator's legal status and the overhaul of the postal monopoly.

 However, the absence of cost accounting data was an impediment to an in-depth economic analysis
 necessary to determine the scope of universal service and reserved services (as well as their costs) in a
 well-grounded manner.

 Therefore, the economic and financial details of these services are currently being determined through a
 study on the cost of postal universal service.


                                                 - 50 -

It is worth noting that after the completion of the study on postal strategy, a draft postal law was
prepared by a commission comprised of Barid Al-Maghrib and the Department of Posts,
Telecommunications and Information Technologies. The draft law, which is articulated around
universal service, will be completed and revised in light of the conclusions of the study on universal
service cost. The commission may thereafter be strengthened by the addition of representatives from
other Departments.

The above-mentioned draft law proposes to address the following points:

§ The scope of universal service and reserved services as well as financing options for universal
service,
§ Thelegalregimeforcompetitiveservicesandtheconditionsforoperatingtheseservices,
§ The transformation of Barid Al-Maghrib into a limited liability company and its designation as the
provider of universal service,
§ Theimplementationofpostalregulation.

III.2 Modernization of the company

In the context of the modernization of Barid Al-Maghrib, a study was conducted to determine how to
upgrade this institution by modernizing its management and adapting its structure to the requirements
of the postal market.

The conclusions of this study were implemented with a new organizational structure for Barid
Al-Maghrib, in which commercial and strategic functions are emphasized. Barid Al-Maghrib's board
adopted this restructuring plan during its meetings of September 2001 and June 2003.

Barid Al-Maghrib now has a new organizational structure, completely different from the previous
public administration mode, and has been transformed into a commercial entity focusing on:

§ Greatercompetitiveness,
§ Enhancedlevelofservicequality,
§ Accomplishmentofpublicservicemissionsunderoptimumcostandqualityconditions.

Barid Al-Maghrib continues to diversify its range of products and to enhance the quality of the postal
and financial services it offers, particularly through the introduction of information technologies and
the extension of the postal network.

In this context, new projects have been launched, such as the offer of national courier service
"Amana", a geographic information system whose aim is to better distribute the postal presence
throughout the territory and to enable a better targeting of clients, and the introduction of a new
information system for the Caisse d'Epargne Nationale (postal saving accounts).

These efforts allowed Barid Al-Maghrib to maintain a satisfactory financial situation. As a result,
nearly all the objectives set in the program contract for 2002 were achieved.

III.3 Development of postal financial services

A study on the development strategy for postal financial services was launched. It is designed to outline


                                                 - 51 -

the different paths and means to promote the products of the Caisse d'Epargne Nationale and the
Comptes Courants Postaux (checking accounts) in a manner that does not harm fair competition within
the banking system, while simultaneously developing internal expertise and the potential for
establishing a separate institution for financial services.




                                                  - 52 -

- 53 -

