Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 163s6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2668-BU)
March 11, 1997
Macroeconomics III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
Year         US$ I equivalent
(Period Average)
1992         FBu 208.3
1993         FBu 242.8
1994         FBu 252.7
1995         FBu 249.8
1996         FBu 294.9 (estimate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRB           Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
EAP            Emergency Assistance Project
EU             European Union
ERP            Emergency Recovery Program
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HIN4O         Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre (High Labor Intensive
Social Program)
IMF            International Monetary Fund
ISABU         Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (Burundi
Institute of Agronomic Sciences)
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
UINDP         United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Mr. Nils 0. Tcheyan
Technical Manager:  Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Acting)
Staff Members:     Mr. Charalambos Tsangarides (Consultant)
Mr. Fran,ois Nankobogo (Operations Analyst)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2668-BU)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface ...................................................                                                                   i
Evaluation Summary ..................................................                                                        ii
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTRODUCTION
Country Background and Political Situation ...................................................             1
A. STATEMENT  AND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES                                              ......................................2
Project Objectives ..................................................2
Evaluation of Project Objectives ................                     ...................................3
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ...................................................4
Health ..................................................4
Education ..................................................5
Agriculture ...................................................6
Infrastructure ..................................................6
Private Sector ...................................................6
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ................................................7
Factors Within Government Control ................................................7
Factors Outside Government Control ..................                       ..............................7
D. BANK  PERFORMANCE  ........8.......................................8
E. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE  ...............................................9
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ................................. 10
Overall Outcome ...............................................                                          10
Impact on Economy ............................................... 10
G. FUTURE  OPERATIONS  .........1...................................... 1
H. LESSONS LEARNED  ...............................................                                                   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Social and Demographic Indicators
Table 6:      Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8:      Financing Requirements and Disbursements by Donor Agencies
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix A: Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2668-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency
Assistance Project (EAP) in Burundi, for which Credit 2668-BU in the amount of SDR
9.8 million (US$ 14.6 million equivalent) was approved on December 15, 1994, and made
effective on April 14, 1995.
The EAP represented IDA's contribution to the government's broader Emergency
Recovery Program (ERP) for a total of US$ 53 million. The credit was closed on August
31, 1996, and was fully disbursed. The ERP was scheduled to be fully implemented in
thirteen months, and no extensions were granted beyond the original closing date of the
EAP.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Charalambos Tsangarides (AFTM3) and Mr.
Francois Nankobogo (AFC09), with contributions from the Burundi Resident Mission
(Mr. Prosper Nindorera). Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Acting Technical Manager, AFTM3),
and Mr. Nils 0. Tcheyan (Country Director, AFC09) reviewed the report. Preparation
time was two months.
A draft of the ICR was distributed for comment to the government on February 5,
1997 and discussed with the authorities. The borrower's contribution to the ICR was
submitted on January 29, 1997 and is included as Appendix B.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 2668-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since 1965, Burundi's development in the economic and social fronts has been
perturbed by repeated ethnic strife among its two main ethnic groups, its Hutu majority
and Tutsi minority. Political instability and recurrent ethnic violence have prevailed since
October 1993, when the first democratically elected President was assassinated in a
rnilitary coup attempt. This triggered a widespread ethnic upheaval in which more than
50,000 died, 200,000 were displaced within the country, and 800,000 sought refuge in
neighboring countries. A power sharing agreement endorsed in October 1994 by most
political parties failed to solve the crisis. Political rivalry grounded in ethnic divergence
and infighting within the parties have resulted in three failed governments since October
1994. In July 1996, following several months of fruitless efforts by the international
community to mediate the impasse between Hutu and Tutsi factions, the sitting President
was ousted by former President Pierre Buyoya in a military backed coup. A trade
embargo was decided thereafter by Burundi's neighboring countries, with severe
repercussions for Burundi's landlocked economy.
2.    Between 1986-93, Burundi pursued an adjustment program supported by three
IDA adjustment credits, and SAF and ESAF arrangements with the IMF. The program
came to a standstill as a result of the political crisis following the 1993 coup attempt and
the ensuing ethnic violence. IDA canceled the second tranche of the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit in June 1995, and the IMF ESAF arrangement expired in November
1994. Among the sectors most seriously affected by the widespread paralysis, destruction,
and violence resulting from the 1993 crisis, were education, health, agriculture,
infrastructure, and the private sector. Emerging from the crisis and mindful of its
responsibilities, the government concentrated its recovery efforts on promoting national
reconciliation (e.g. put in place the power sharing convention in September 1994), and
formulating a revised country macroeconomic framework for 1994-95, with the help of
IDA and the IMF.
3.    An Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) prepared with the help of IDA was
endorsed by the government in September 1994. It consisted of external aid of US$ 53
million in support of programs to be implemented over two years. Directed at five priority
sectors (health, education, agriculture, infrastructure, and private sector), the ERP aimed
at rebuilding capacity, addressing Burundi's most pressing social needs, and restoring
long-term economic growth potential. It encompassed import financing, civil works, and



- iii -
technical assistance to improve the social conditions of the population, create employment,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and restore basic government functions. The ERP was to be
supported by the proposed Emergency Assistance Project (US$ 14.6 million), the
allocation of funds (US$ 2.9 million) under ongoing IDA projects, and by other donors.
The prolonged socio-political crisis and the unstable situation during the EAP's
implementation weighed on the outcome of the EAP. Its primary objective to direct
resources to the most needy sectors was met, and further deterioration of the already
eroded country structures was avoided. However, the EAP fell short of its objective of
attracting a significant amount of fresh financing from the donor community.
Project Objectives
4.    The EAP was designed as a quick-disbursing emergency operation to finance
selected imports (positive list) to support key sectoral expenditures included in the ERP.
It was also viewed as a catalyst for mobilizing emergency assistance from other donors in
the form of budgetary support, as well as general balance of payments support in the
context of the broader ERP. The Development Credit Agreement specified allocations to
the five components of the project corresponding to the five sectors of health, education,
agriculture, infrastructure, and private sector. The project objectives were clearly relevant
in light of the country situation and the balance of payments constraints that the country
was facing. While an emergency operation in the country was in principle appropriate, the
broader recovery program (ERP) turned out to be rather ambitious from its inception.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    While the overall ERP proved to be too optimistic, the general objectives of the
more modest EAP were achieved, despite the unstable environment during its
implementation. Import financing was well managed by the Central Bank, and the
allocation of counterpart funds to the five priority sectors was also well coordinated by the
government's implementation unit.  However, the government failed to secure the
additional financing required for the ERP, and thus, the ERP was significantly downsized.
As the political and security situation worsened in the country, donors were loosing faith
in the government's efforts to restore peace and economic growth in the country, and as a
result, only a limited amount of fresh financing was disbursed for the ERP besides the
EAP financed by IDA.
6.    Despite the EAP's overall satisfactory performance, the country's macroeconomic
situation did not improve during the EAP's implementation period. This can be attributed
to the lack of significant improvement in the country's political and security situation, the
limited size of the EAP, and the sharp decline in donor aid to Burundi. However, without
the EAP it would have been extremely difficult for the government to prevent further
deterioration of the country's already eroded socio-economic conditions. Designed as a
quick disbursing operation to provide emergency aid by directing emergency resources to
the sectors most severely affected, the EAP provided at least a temporary relief to the
most vulnerable sectors.



-iv-
7.    During the project cycle the performance of the Bank was highly satisfactory. At
the identification and appraisal stages IDA moved promptly to respond to the emergency
situation in the country and prepared a package of fast-disbursing resources to finance
priority sectors. The task of project implementation was satisfactorily carried out by the
Ministry of Finance which acted as coordinator of the five sectoral implementation units,
with the support of a local consulting firm. During the implementation cycle, IDA gave
continuing support, and a Resident Mission staff worked in close collaboration with the
implementation committee.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
8.    The benefits realized in the specific sectors financed by the project affirm its
satisfactory outcome. Emergency needs were covered in the five identified priority
sectors. The rehabilitation of health centers, the replenishment of medicine stocks, and the
provision of health care to the poorest restored access to primary health services. In the
education sector, the rehabilitation of school buildings, the training of unqualified teachers,
and the coverage of education costs for the poorest portion of the population helped
revitalize the education services despite the crisis. The provision of seeds, agriculture
tools, and veterinary products was critical in keeping a good level of production in the
primary sector. Project resources contributed also to the rehabilitation of roads and
communal buildings.
9.    In the future, the success of any operation in Burundi will heavily depend on the
country's ability to promote national reconciliation and restore social peace and political
stability. Although the Bank is not considering financing any new operations in Burundi at
the moment, the country situation is being closely monitored and operations may be
resumed when the appropriate conditions are restored.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
10.   The EAP and the broader ERP were conceived in an environment of a high sense
of optimism.  At that time, the government was initiating actions on different fronts to
move the country out of the paralysis of the two preceding years, and even outlined its
broad econornic strategy to restore peace and economic growth in the country during a
donor's meeting in Paris on September 28, 1994. However, the positive environment in
which the recovery efforts were initiated did not last long. The deep-rooted social and
political issues were not successfully resolved in the following months, and continued
political instability discouraged most donors from committing the resources pledged at the
Paris meeting.
11.   The EAP succeeded in its primary objective to direct emergency resources to the
sectors most in need, and it is likely that without the EAP, it would have been very
difficult to prevent further deterioration in the economic and social conditions. However,
the EAP was not very successful in its secondary objective to act as a catalyst for
mobilizing donor support for the broader ERP. While the EAP's simple project design
was successful in ensuring the fast and efficient disbursement of resources, the broader



- v -
ERP was not nearly as successful, and donor pledges for the ERP during the Paris
meeting, were not materialized. The ERP's failure can be attributed to: (i) its design,
specifically to the fact that donor technical work and participation in preparing the ERP
were very limited, and more extensive consultations were needed to identify the priority
activities for the targeted sectors prior to the Paris meeting; and (ii) to the deterioration of
the political situation which discouraged donors from carrying out their pledges in the
context of the ERP. Overall, any operation --development or otherwise-- implemented in
an environment where a stable socio-political setting is lacking, has limited chances of
achieving sustainable results. Close evaluation of the situation, careful program design,
and the need of realism are necessary before committing to such broad recovery programs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2668-BU)
INTRODUCTION
Country Background and Political Situation
1.    Peace has eluded Burundi for much of its existence, as its two ethnic groups, the
Hutu majority and the Tutsi minority, have struggled for decades for economic and
political power. Since its independence, this country with a population of about 6.5
million and an annual population growth rate of 3 percent, has suffered repeated conflicts
which have hampered economic growth and social progress.  A military-led Tutsi
dominated government was in power for most of the 1980-90s.  The multi-party
constitution adopted in 1992 paved the way for the country's first democratic elections in
June 1993, which was won by the Hutu-dominated party.  Three months later, the
President and other top officials were assassinated, unleashing widespread ethnic violence
and civil unrest, in which more than 50,000 died, 200,000 were internally displaced, and
800,000 fled to neighboring countries.  The political instability and recurrent ethnic
violence of the last two years are residues of the 1993 convulsion. A fragile power-
sharing agreement reached in October 1994 failed to solve the crisis, and violence and
polarization increased even further.
2.    In July 1996, a former Tutsi President took power in a bloodless coup backed by
the military. He appointed a Hutu Prime Minister and a new government, and indicated
his intention to work in a three year transition period on a sustainable country framework
for good governance and democracy. Following the coup the neighboring countries
declared a trade embargo on Burundi which has caused further deterioration of the
economic conditions and the security situation, given the country's absolute dependency
on regional outlets for international trade, including the routing of imports through which
Burundi disburses development aid. The economy is estimated to have contracted by
more than 20 percent over the last four years, poverty has increased, and access to basic
education and health services has declined. Most donors have stopped their development
assistance to Burundi, and the Bank has suspended disbursements to Burundi as of
October 1996 until appropriate conditions for project implementation are restored in the
country.
3.    The crisis which started in 1993 resulted in a deterioration of basic infrastructure
and generated extensive needs in the priority sectors of health, education, agriculture,
infrastructure, and the private sector. As soon as the authorities were ready to address the
resulting problems, IDA adjusted its strategy to help meet the country's needs other than



humanitarian assistance (provided by other donors), and helped prepare the Emergency
Recovery Program (ERP). The Emergency Assistance Project (EAP), funded with a
credit of US$ 14.6 million represented IDA's support to the recovery efforts. The project
focused on ensuring the delivery of services in priority sectors, helping to coordinate
emergency operations in Burundi by the international community, and energizing the
economic reform process.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
4.    The project aimed at helping to restore Burundi's economic assets in the aftermath
of the major crisis that broke out in October 1993, and allowing the country to re-embark
on the path of economic reforms, by providing balance of payments support through
import financing, and budgetary support through the use of counterpart funds. Given the
large amount of financing requirements, IDA intended to design an Emergency Recovery
Credit that would serve as catalyst for other donors' contributions to a US$ 53 million
integrated Emergency Recovery Program. Towards this end, a Friends of Burundi
meeting in Paris was sponsored by the Bank in September 1994. It was attended by eight
bilateral and twelve multilateral organizations including UN Agencies. Many donors
including Belgium, France, Germany, the European Union, UNDP, and USAID
committed to cofinance the program.
5.    The project, which had no objective of policy reform, supported emergency
imports on a positive list basis. Its counterpart funds aimed at financing emergency needs
in five priority sectors: agriculture, health, primary and secondary education, infrastructure
and the private sector.
Health: The project's objective was to cover a broad range of emergency needs in the
sector: (i) rehabilitation of health centers and hospitals, (ii) replenishment of medicine
stocks, (iii) purchase of vehicles and equipment, (iv) subsidizing medical care for the most
affected part of the population, and (v) strengthening of central and provincial
administration.
Education: The project focused on financing the following: (i) rehabilitation and
construction of school buildings, (ii) purchase of equipment for boarding schools,
textbooks and other training materials, and vehicles, (iii) teacher training, and
(iv) assistance to students affected by the crisis.
Agriculture: As a consequence of the crisis, agricultural output declined by 22 percent
over the average level recorded for 1988-93 and resulted in a food gap and price
increases. The project aimed at stimulating a recovery of agricultural production by:
(i) contributing to the acquisition of seeds and other inputs (agricultural tools, vehicles,



equipment, and veterinary products), and (ii) restoration of nurseries and seed centers, and
land development.
Infrastructure: The financing of most infrastructure rehabilitation needs was secured
under on-going projects. In particular, in the transport sector, Belgium, Germany, and
IDA covered the most of rehabilitation of roads, bridges, culverts, and the rural track
network with existing operations. Electricity and rural water systems were funded under
IDA existing projects. The EAP also financed part of (i) road emergency rehabilitation
works, (ii) rehabilitation and replacement of communal buildings, and (iii) replacement and
cleaning of canalization tubes in Bujumbura.
Private sector: The objective was to boost the private sector by: (i) focusing on high labor
intensive social activities to be carried out by the population so as to facilitate the flow of
cash revenue in rural areas, and (ii) supporting the resumption of activity of small
enterprises which were hard hit by the crisis.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
6.    Overall, project objectives were well defined and the government was well
committed to their achievement. However, the crisis impeded the implementation pace,
particularly during the first semester after the project effectiveness. As the administration
remained partially paralyzed in 1995, the implementation of the project was delayed
particularly with regard to the use of counterpart funds, implying a slow response to
address emergency needs and restore the country's long-term economic potential. Even
though the credit was approved by the Board in December 1994, disbursement requests
were submitted to IDA in May 1995 and counterpart funds were allocated to targeted
sectors in 1996.
7.    The objective consisting of financing imports on a positive list basis was well
achieved thanks to the Central Bank's experience with structural adjustment operations.
The categories of allocation were also respected, except that, most resources for
consultants services and those unallocated were used for imports in the end.
8.    In the health sector, financing the payments due from the poorest of the population
through the social fund was a good objective and was partially achieved even if the results
are not sustainable. In addition, the nutritional situation could not have been restored
throughout the country as long as some provinces remained highly insecure.
9.    With regard to the education sector, the activities selected for the project were
critical for the sector rehabilitation and development. The most important ones were
purchases of textbooks and instructional materials, emergency rehabilitation, and special
programs such as the training of unskilled teachers. In addition, schools were built in
highly disfavored areas in the context of the ERP, equipment was improved in boarding
schools, and canton inspection offices were provided with light vehicles.



- 4 -
10.   In the agriculture sector, the availability of seeds and tools contributed to the food
gap reduction through production increase. However, the impact on production and
marketing could have been higher if displaced and exiled population had been able to
return to their villages, and if security had been restored so as to avoid disruption of
agricultural activities. The EAP was complemented by the Bank-financed coffee project
that contributed to rehabilitate coffee washing stations, and by relief aid that contributed
to agricultural seeds and veterinary equipment distribution.
11.   Very little was specifically designed to be financed under the EAP in the
infrastructure sector. The use of available resources from existing projects proved to be a
good approach. In the end, infrastructure was essentially financed with the support of the
three above mentioned sectors.
12.   For the private sector, the objective turned out to be unclear and resources
available were very limited to have an impact on the economy. Private enterprises that
had lost their assets in the crisis could not have received appropriate assistance due to the
lack of resources. In the end, resources were used by local NGOs involved in productive
activities and a small amount of money was made available to support resumption of
activity of only one enterprise. There was only one case of HIMO activities which
consisted in the rehabilitation of a private afforestation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
13.   The project reached overall satisfactory results despite the environment in which it
was implemented. However, the results were unequal among the five sectors of activity
mostly due to two factors: (i) the quality of performance of the implementation units, and
(ii) the security conditions which limited implementation in the parts of the project in the
central areas of the country.
Health
14.   The rehabilitation of health centers was one of the project's main objectives. The
hospitals which benefited the most from the project were the hospitals of the capital,
Bujumbura, and Gitega, through rehabilitation works and equipment provision
(medical/surgical equipment, electricity generators, and ambulances). The most used
health centers located in the safest areas were rehabilitated very rapidly by specialized
NGOs and church organizations, with the help of the EU, and the assistance provided by
the project through provision of medicine. Despite the progress made in rehabilitating the
hospitals of the two cities mentioned above, the Ministry of Health was unable to
rehabilitate the health centers which became accessible or more secure because it was
difficult to replace staff that had fled to safer areas during the events.
15.   The project contributed to the stock replenishment of essential medicine at the
central Pharmaceutical Depot and this enabled the active health centers to have access to



- 5 -
essential medicine. With imported products being provided by different donors (EU,
WHO, UNICEF, Belgium, and others), the project concentrated on generic products
produced locally. Further, the project reimbursed hospital costs for those injured or sick
as a result of the events, those who could not pay for the medical care they received, and
who were not covered by medical insurance. Finally, the project financed the health
insurance card costs of 55,885 displaced households, thus giving them access to low cost
medical care and medicines.
16.   The project did not engage in capacity building activities. These were long term
activities which were not compatible with the emergency nature of the project. The
project responded especially to the demands of the institutions and government mainly for
the provision of medicine to health centers, health care subsidies for crisis victims or the
victims of the events, and provision of material and medical equipment for hospitals and
health centers. Overall, although the crisis that Burundi is continuing to expenence
reinforced the dependence of health care structures on the state, foreign support, and
NGOs, the project has been of great use, as it allowed access to health care to the most
deprived portion of the population in time of great need.
Education
17.   Education is the area where the project activities have been the most satisfying,
especially primary education. Wherever security conditions were restored, rehabilitation
means (human resources, buildings, and furniture) allowing schools to function, have been
rapidly put in place. More than 80 percent of the schools were open for the beginning of
the 1996-97 school year due to an improvement of the security situation. Most of the
remaining 20 percent which were still closed are located in the significantly insecure
provinces (Cibitoke, Bubanza, and Bujumbura-rural).
18.   Since school buildings were already rehabilitated in early 1995 with other
financing, most of the rehabilitation activities of the project were oriented towards the
restoration of facilities (showers, and toilets) of ten secondary schools. The work was
carried out by workers under the supervision of the Bureau du Projet Education (BPE),
during the 1995-96 school year.  In addition, classrooms and dormitories were
rehabilitated in high schools in Rugari and Bururi, and the works in Bururi high-school are
about to be completed.
19.   Also, the project financed the import of paper and cardboard necessary for the
printing of textbooks. As the crisis lead to a drastic decrease in parents' contribution to
the financing of books, which went from FBu 100 million in 1993-94 to FBu 40 million in
1995-96, the project contributed to the financing of the printing of textbooks, which were
distributed to elementary schools. Further, the EAP financed the training of 1850 non-
qualified primary school teachers, which helped restart the basic education system
particularly in rural areas. In addition, each one of the 17 provincial primary education
inspection services received a vehicle.  The project also financed the furnishing of
dormitories (beds and mattresses), as well as laboratory materials for physics and
chemistry education.  Canton services received office equipment (stencils, and copy



- 6 -
machines). Due to the embargo, some didactic material and type writers that were
scheduled to be delivered in August 1996, were still held up by the suppliers at the end of
1996.
20.   Finally, the project contributed to the financing of educational material and
educational expenses of extremely poor students of secondary education. During the
1995-96 school year 11,000 orphan students or children of displaced persons were
counted. The project financed two thirds of the tuition fees for secondary schools with
more than 10 percent of extremely poor students.
Agriculture
21.   The major activity supported by the project was the provision of seeds to the
displaced population with access to fields around the camps, as well as those who were
returning to their agricultural plants. In this regard, 1045 tons of bean seeds, and 100 tons
of corn seeds were distributed to the displaced population of the provinces Bujumbura-
Mairie, Bujumbura-rural, Kirundo, Bururi, Karuzi, Makamba, Muramvya, Ngozi, and
Rutana for the 1996/B agricultural season (March-April 1996). The displaced population
also benefited from the distribution of hoes, agricultural tools, and veterinary products
financed by the EAP.
22.   Besides the input provision to the displaced population, the project financed the
provision of 222 tons of potato seeds which were allocated to ISABU and the seed
multiplication centers for the utilization of associations and groups of farmers. The EAP
could not provide direct support to seed and poultry centers due to the lack of clear
policies for their management. Overall, the results of these activities were positive as the
distribution of food crops seeds facilitated increases in the agricultural production to
satisfactory levels even though these were still below normal.
Infrastructure
23.   Only the first repair of National Route 1 (RN1), which had been damaged by the
deterioration of the terrain and the acts of sabotage, was executed very rapidly. While
work on the filling of potholes and cleaning of the canalization/draining tubes started in
April 1996 and should be finished before the end of February 1997, construction work on
RN7, has not yet started; the work scheduled for RN8 and RN1O has been canceled and
replaced by road maintenance in Bujumbura. This is due to the lack of promptness in the
preparation of bidding documents, and the insecurity of the areas where the works were to
be executed.
Private sector
24.   For the profitable activities, the project was supposed to assist private companies
either in the re-establishment of their enterprise or the development of new projects
(projects of high manual labor intensity located preferably in rural areas) as long as the
project could be financed by a local bank. The maximum financing from the EAP



- 7 -
resources was 20 percent of the project cost at an interest rate of 50 percent lower than
the market rate. For the activities serving public interest such as reforestation or support
to vulnerable groups (widows, repatriated, and displaced) these projects could have been
financed in competition at the maximum of US$ 20,000 and without interest.
25.   Only one contractor was able to present a project fitting in the first category, a
small enterprise in the field of mining. All the other contractors have not been able to
obtain any credit with local banks. In regards to the second category, two projects
(reforestation, and rice culture) are in the process of being realized, and a third project will
start very soon.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Factors within government control
26.   The overall project implementation  performance was satisfactory.   The
government's commitment to a sound implementation record was important from the
beginning despite the difficulties generated by the crisis. The credit agreement was
submitted to the legislative body without delay and became effective within three months
after the signing date. It was then well managed by the Central Bank (import financing)
and the government's implementation unit (allocation of counterpart funds to the five
selected sectors). The latter was a private enterprise selected through competitive bidding
that worked closely with senior civil servants from the Ministry of Finance and interested
sectoral ministries. Adequate information about credit and eligible expenses was timely
provided to interested bodies. The simple project design was appropriate for the weak
institutional capacity of the government.
27.   To improve the project impact, the government could have worked more on two
factors: the pace of implementation, and continued donor coordination for funding the
ERP. During CY95, almost all the counterpart funds which constituted FBu I billion,
were spent for external debt service. The remaining counterpart funds were reflected in
the 1996 budget.
28.   The government failed to mobilize donors after the Paris meeting and, as a
consequence, very limited fresh financing was disbursed for the ERP besides the IDA
financed EAP. Moreover, the EAP did not use the resources allocated to consultants'
services. Despite the need for rehabilitation of assets damaged by the civil unrest, no
single request for any preparatory work in that field was submitted to IDA. In the end,
these resources were allocated to imports of goods.
Factors outside government control
29.   The project suffered a lot of precarious security conditions and donors' reluctance
to remain active in development activities in a volatile environment. Though a coalition



- 8 -
government was sworn in during the fourth quarter 1994 after a new president was
appointed, insecurity increased during 1995 as the guerrilla forces and the militia increased
their fighting.
30.   As several donors became increasingly skeptical about the government's ability to
restore sustainable peace in the short-run, they started to freeze their financing and the
ERP was severely downsized de facto. The financing requirements to bring the country
back on the path of sustainable development were not covered anymore, and the impact of
the EAP as a single operation was, thus, reduced. Most donors used existing financing
arrangements and refrained from committing fresh money. Along with IDA's EAP, only
Germany and the UNDP (Continuum) brought in additional financing and yet there was no
coordination of interventions. The reluctance of donors to finance effectively the program
was due to the continuation of the crisis despite the appointment of a new president and a
coalition government.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification to appraisal:
31.   The design of the EAP reflected the lessons of past experience from other
emergency operations in war-torn countries, namely: simple program design with
implementation schemes based on existing units; strong government commitment with
frequent communication between the Borrower and the Bank; and well-focused technical
assistance.  Adjusting its strategy to meet immediate recovery needs other than
humanitarian assistance covered by other donors, IDA's support to recovery aimed at
ensuring the delivery of services in priority sectors such as health and education, helping
to coordinate emergency operations in Burundi by the international community, and
reactivating the economic reform process. In order to achieve these objectives IDA
maintained a three-part approach: (i) restructuring of more than half of the undisbursed
project portfolio, (ii) preparing to finance new investment lending, and resume the
adjustment dialogue with the country, and (iii) assisting in the preparation of the ERP and
the EAP which was also to be viewed as a catalyst of mobilizing emergency assistance
from the donor community.
32.   IDA's performance throughout the project cycle is rated highly satisfactory.
Throughout the project cycle IDA has demonstrated strong commitment, responsiveness,
and flexibility in implementing a strategy to address Burundi's emergency needs after the
widespread socio-economic paralysis caused by the political crisis of 1993-94. IDA's
three-part approach was on target in terms of successfully identifying the sectors where
need was greatest, and directing resources where needed. The portfolio was restructured
and downsized to better respond to country conditions (from 16 to 8 projects by the end
of CY96 accompanied by a 50 percent reduction of undisbursed balances). Disbursements
for FY96 were US$ 22 million, of which US$ 8 million was disbursed under the EAP.



-9 -
Implementation/Supervision
33.   The EAP has been executed by different existing sectoral services with the support
of a private agency. A program implementation committee had been put in place by the
government with the task to submit to the government proposals for the use of the
project's funds. The sectoral units prepared sub-projects, compatible with the objectives
of the EAP and the policies set out by the government, and the sub-projects and every
financing request were then evaluated by a private agency prior to being presented to the
implementation committee, and to the Ministry of Finance for approval. Finally, the
sectoral units implemented the sub-projects, in certain cases, with the assistance of the
executing agency. The program of activity and costs of the EAP should have been
reflected in the mid-term revision of the 1995 budget and also in the 1996 budget.
34.   The Bank's Resident mission had most of the responsibility of carrying out the task
of project supervision. An initial summary supervision report was issued in June 1995.
The second supervision mission was carried out in March 1996, as part of a Public
Expenditure Review mission. The implementation progress was rated satisfactory during
the first mission, and highly satisfactory during the second. Both development objectives
and implementation progress were rated satisfactory as disbursements to support the
targeted sectors were on track throughout the duration of the project.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   Overall the borrower's performance can be rated as satisfactory. The government
collaborated closely with the Bank mission during the project appraisal and, all through
the execution of the project, the Bank has been informed of the issues relating to the
implementation of the project. The project became effective promptly, the government
was committed to the objectives of the project, and made every effort to ensure sound
project implementation.  Overall, the borrower was very receptive to the Bank's
recommendations throughout the implementation of the project. This can be seen by the
rapid implementation of the recommendations to set up an EAP implementation
committee, recruit a private agency to facilitate and accelerate the implementation of the
project, and register activities of the EAP in the budget.
36.   As mentioned in the President's Report, the project accounts were scheduled to be
audited by an independent auditor at the close of the borrower's fiscal year and within six
months of the final project disbursement. As a result of the trade embargo, the audits have
not been prepared as planned. Recently, after the re-opening of biweekly flights of
Burundi's national airline, the Ministry of Finance completed the procedure of recruiting
the audit agency which is expected to arrive in Bujumbura by the end of February 1997.



-10-
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
Overall Outcome
37.   The EAP's overall outcome was satisfactory.  It proved to be an adequate
instrument to assist Burundi in the aftermath of the 1993 crisis and the government
respected its commitment to allocate counterpart funds to the targeted sectors in a
transparent way. Emergency needs in key sectors were addressed. In the health sector,
the project financed hospital rehabilitation, medicine provision, and coverage of medical
costs for the most deprived part of the population, which was essential for access to basic
health care. Significant results were realized in the education sector where the project
helped finance school rehabilitation, training of teachers, and provision of textbooks and
other teaching materials; as a result, 80 percent of the schools re-opened at the beginning
of the 1996-97 school year. In the agriculture sector, the project helped improve the
production level through the financing of essential inputs such as seeds, agricultural tools,
and veterinary drugs. Minor positive results were realized for the infrastructure and
private sectors, where some of the project's objectives were not executed, in principal due
to either the continuing crisis, or the limited amount allocated for the sector.
38.   The sustainability of any operation in Burundi is inherently correlated with the
country's success in resolving ethnic tensions. The EAP and the broader ERP were
prepared in an environment in which the country was assumed to be emerging from a
political and economic paralysis of twelve months. In this positive environment the
government had taken the first steps to promote national reconciliation and restore
economic growth with the ERP. At that time, it was believed that the favorable
environment would continue to prevail in the country to facilitate the recovery and trigger
international development assistance.
Impact on Economy
39.   The EAP set the foundations for initiating Burundi's recovery but did not succeed
in achieving the rather optimistic goals of the broader ERP, in terms of acting as a catalyst
for development assistance flows in the country, and jump starting the country's economy.
The unfavorable environment created by the socio-political conflict failed to attract
significant donor funding to finance the broader ERP which proved to have been too
optimistic. Neither the country's macro performance nor its economic profile experienced
much improvement during the EAP. However, the EAP helped avoid accelerated
deterioration of the socio-economic situation.
40.   The impact on the economy was two-fold: (i) the import financing helped reduce
for a while the pace of the country's international reserves contraction as net foreign flows
were diminishing; and (ii) counterpart funds were budgetary support that allowed to avoid
major deterioration in key sectors that would have hurt mostly the poor and vulnerable
population. However, the project itself could not have had a significant impact on
macroeconomic indicators because of its limited size and the continued country instability
throughout the implementation period. A broad picture of the economy during the



-11-
implementation period of the EAP shows a decline in real GDP by a cumulative 16
percent over 1993-95, and an estimated 15-20 percent decline in 1996; accelerated
inflation; the public finance situation deteriorating with fiscal revenues declining sharply;
and in the external sector net capital flows falling sharply.
Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
1995       1995       1996
projected    actual  projected
(% change)
Real GDP Growth                 10.0      -3.7       -13.0
Real GDP Growth per Capita      6.7        -6.5      -15.1
(% of GDP)
Current Revenues               18.2        18.8       11.6
Current Expenditures           17.3        17.1       17.7
Current Balance                 0.9         1.7      -6.1
Overall Balance I/            -10.4        -3.6      -10.5
Exports (GNFS)                 17.1        12.4       7.9
Imports (GNFS)                 35.6       30.6       30.2
Current Account Balance 2/     -10.5        1.3      -8.1
Total Debt Outstanding         95.6       121.3      133.9
Total Debt Service              4.8        5.1        6.1
/ Including grants
2/Including official transfers
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   Efforts to contribute to Burundi' s reform  have faced major and increasing
constraints over the last three years due to the country's unresolved socio-political conflict
and the disintegration of its political structures. As a result of the most recent economic
and political developments and the imposed embargo, IDA has suspended credit
disbursements to Burundi as of October 1996, until conditions permit project
implementation to proceed. These conditions would include the return to reasonable
stability and security, and the lifting of the embargo, allowing the resumption of trade
between Burundi and the rest of the world. Burundi's development prospects and its
capacity to mobilize external support hinge on the government's ability to restore social
peace and political stability, and resume economic reform. National reconciliation will
remain the fundamental objective for Burundi, and the necessary precondition on which
the design and implementation of future operations lie.



-12-
42.   At this time, the Bank is not considering financing any new operations in Burundi.
However, the Bank is monitoring the situation as it evolves so that it can provide
assistance in war to peace transition, particularly if refugees and the internally displaced
population can resettle in their villages. With regard to sectoral operations, the Burundi
1995 CAS took an option of working on social sectors as far as there is stability. The
portfolio has been restructured in order to adjust to emergency needs; and any future
sectoral operation would have to take into account the new context of Burundi.
H. LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The most significant lesson of the EAP is that the socio-political environment in
which projects are implemented is a significant determinant of their outcome.  Thus,
projects implemented in environments where the socio-political climate is not supportive
of longer-term economic and social developments, have limited success. The EAP (and
the broader ERP) were designed in a period when the government was taking the first
steps on different fronts to move the country out of the paralysis, and a sense of optimism
was prevailing. The President's Report acknowledged the risks of the fragile political
environment and cautioned against a relapse into violence. However, it was decided that
without resources for the EAP, it would be extremely difficult for the new government to
prevent further deterioration in economic and social conditions, which could have led to
large-scale violence. Ex post facto it appears that the assessment of the chances for the
situation in Burundi to stabilize was over-optimistic. The security situation remained
volatile in the northwestern provinces of the country -Cibitoke and Bubanza-, which
restricted the implementation area of the EAP and left some emergency needs aside
because of restricted access.  This continued insecurity prevented some donors,
particularly bilaterals, from making their contributions to the broader ERP pledged at the
September 1994 Paris meeting.
44.   The simple project design was key to the success of the EAP. As previously
mentioned, the EAP was designed using past experience with recovery projects for
countries emerging from national crises, and aimed to address the country's immediate
needs and trigger further donor financing. The EAP succeeded in addressing the country's
immediate needs because of the EAP's simple design which (i) identified the specific
sectors to receive financing, and (ii) assigned the execution of the EAP and the
implementation coordination to the Ministry of Finance with the assistance of a private
consulting company selected to manage the use of counterpart funds. Thanks to its
experience with structural adjustment operations, the Central Bank handled very
adequately disbursement requests which were consistent with both the positive list and
sectoral categories. This design ensured fast implementation pace, and close monitoring
which were essential for the success of the project.
45.   Further, in order to get a firm commitment from the government and for donors to
get involved in a program implementation, it is essential that they contribute to its design
from its inception. The EAP was a Bank initiative and the ERP was very rapidly designed



-13-
for the Paris meeting where donors made pledges without having participated much in its
appraisal. As the government had been weakened by the crisis, its involvement in the
project preparation remained also very limited, a factor that may explain why it was not
aggressive enough after the Paris meeting to pursue donor mobilization so that the ERP
could be financed further beyond its EAP component.
46.   In addition, the lack of policy component in the EAP did not provide any guidance
to the government about what could be its key focus in economic management to
accelerate recovery. The project was partly designed to help Burundi restore its long-
term economic growth potential, but no policy specific measure was required to be taken
towards that end. As a result, the EAP became effective in April 1995, but the SAC III
second tranche was canceled on the grounds of lack of satisfactory performance in
meeting the conditionally. Since then, supervision missions did not question economic
management and performance and disbursements took place until the credit reached its
closing date.
47.   Finally, in order for any project --particularly an emergency project-- to achieve its
objectives, a strong government commitment is needed. Where capacity is weak hands-on
contracting out to the private sector some implementation activities is efficient. In the
case of the EAP, the government ensured that the use of counterpart funds was
satisfactory to IDA even though it was not legally obliged to. Even when the government
wanted to use part of the resources to service IDA debt, it requested the Bank's
agreement. To accelerate the use of resources in the targeted sectors while ensuring the
quality of activities financed, a local private consulting company was selected to help the
an implementation committee appointed by the Ministers of Planning and Finance. Such
an arrangement proved to be efficient.






PART II
STATISTICAL INFORMATION



Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Social and Demographic Indicators
Table 6:  Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8:  Financing Requirements and Disbursements by Donor Agencies
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not aoplicable
Macro Policies                     El              E                                  0
Sector Policies                     Q                               E                 0
Financial Objectives               I               E                E                 0
Institutional Development                                           E                 0
Physical Objectives                 Q                               5                 0
Poverty Reduction                    l              0               E                 E
Gender Issues                      i                                E                 0
Other Social Objectives              ]              0               0                 0
Environmental Objectives           E               E                El                0
Public Sector Management           r |              O               O
Private Sector Development         r |              O                                El
Other (financing critical           0              E                E                 E
imports)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely              Uncertain
ol                       0                     El
Highlv
C. Bank Perfonnance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
Identificatioii                                             C] E 
Preparation Assistance              E                       Ig                     E
Appraisal                          E                        0                      E
Supervision                        E                        0                     E



Highly                                           Not
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient       Applicable
Preparation                                                       [ J  
Implementation                                                    i:i
Covenant Compliance                [               Q              a               IA
Operation (if applicable)            ]            I               jE
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title     Purpose                      Date of Approval  Status
Preceding operations
1. Cr.2731            Health and Population II    5/95              Active
2. Cr. 1968           Second Urban Development    12/88             Closed (12/96)
3. Cr.2359            Private Sector Development    04/92           Active
4. Cr.2230            Energy Sector Rehabilitation    04/91         Active
5. Cr.2105            Transport Sector            03/90             Active
6. Cr.2024 2/         Agricultural Services Sector    05/89         Closed (12/96)
7. Cr.2288 2!         Water Supply Sector          07/91            Active
Following operations
No operations planned
1/ As cited in the President's Report, US$ 2.9 million was reallocated under ongoing IDA
projects.
2/ Scheduled to support the EAP but did not achieve their objectives.
3/ Disbursements for active projects suspended as of October 1996.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned        Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Initial Executive Project Summary)  n.a.         07/15/94
Preparation                                      n.a.             08/25/94
Appraisal                                        n.a.         09/8/94-09/26/94
Negotiations                                     n.a.             11/14/94
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)     n.a.               n.a.
Board Presentation                               n.a.             12/15/94
Signing                                          n.a.            01/18/95
Effectiveness                                 01/31/95 "          04/14/95
First Tranche Release (if applicable)            n.a.               n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                   n.a.               n.a.
Second (and Third) Tranche Release               n.a.               n.a.
Project Completion/Final Disbursement         02/29/96 "          02/27/97
Credit Closing                                02/29/96 '          08/31/96
1/ As provided in the President's Report.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY95        FY96         FY97
Appraisal Estimate            10            14.60       14.60
Actual                        5.95          13.52       14.60
Actual as % of Estimate       59.5%        92.6%        100%
Date of Final Disbursement    February 27, 1997
1/ As provided in the President's Report.



Table 5
Burundi: Key Social and Demographic Indicators
1980-85     1989-94 Sub-Saharan
1/       Africa
Population
Density                       (pop. per sq. km.)           170.7       215.6         22.9
Urban population              (%l of population)            5.2          7.3         30.6
Total population growth rate    (annual percent)            2.9           3           2.8
Urban growth rate            (annual percent)              6.4          6.4          4.9
Total Fertility Rate           (births per woman)            6.8          6.7          5.9
Mortality
Infant mortality              (per 1,000 live births)       117          99            92
Under 5 mortality             (per 1,000 live births)        ...        163           161
Life Expectancy
Total                         (years)                        48          50            52
Female advantage              (years)                        3.4         3.3          3.5
Immunization
Measles                       (%/ age group)                 42          75            51
DPT                           d/o age group)                 38          83            54
Healtb
Population per physician      (persons)                  21,370       17,191           ...
Population per nurse          (persons)                   3,071       4,789            ...
Population per hospital bed   (persons)                      ...       1,522        1,316
Access to Safe Water (total)   (lo ofpopulation)              26          37            41
Urban                         (lo of population)             98          92            78
Rural                         d/ of population)              22          34            27
Gross Enrollment Ratios
Primary                       (lo of school age pop.)        52          72            71
Male                         (/ of school age pop.)        61          76            77
Female                      (% of school age pop.)          44          63            64
Secondary                     (% of school age pop.)          4           7            24
Female                       (% of school age pop.)          2           5            23
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary  (pupils per teacher)           56          63            40
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary    (pupils per teacher)       17          18            ...
I/ Most recent estimate (data available for the most recent year of the period).
Source: Social Indicators of Development (World Bank, 1996)



Table 6
Burundi: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
(in local currency unless indicated otherwise)
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
projected 1/
Real Growth:                                                      (% change peryear)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 2/               3.5       5.0       2.7       -5.8      -6.7      -3.7     -13.0
GrossDomesticIncome(GDY)                      2.4       5.2       2.2       -2.7      -2.7      -5.4    -14.1
Exports (gnfs)                               -5.6      16.3        1.1    -14.5       -5.5       2.2    -35.0
Imports (gnfs)                               14.7       4.8       5.5      24.1        1.7      -8.9     -13.3
Real per Capita Growth                                             f% change per year)
GDP                                           0.5       2.0      -0.2       -8.6      -9.4      -6.5    -15.1
GDY                                          -0.5       2.1       -0.8      -5.5      -5.6      -8.2    -16.2
Consumption                                   6.3       0.6      -3.3       -1.8      0.6    -11.1        -9.4
Debt: 3/                                               (in millions of US$ unless otherwise indicated)
Debt service, total                          42.4      39.2      39.7      36.1      41.0       49.0      55.0
DS/Exports(gnfs)                            47.6      33.9      41.9      41.5      29.7      37.1      73.3
DS/GDP                                       3.6       3.5       4.1       4.2       4.1       5.1       6.1
Interest, total                              14.1      13.8      15.8      12.9       13.0      11.0      13.0
DOD, total                                  907.4    963.5   1022.4   1061.3   1125.5    1157.0   1212.4
DOD/GDP                                     77.4      86.9    106.8    122.9    113.3    121.3    133.9
Ratios:                                                          (nominal, in % of GDP)
Gross Investment                             14.5      14.4      17.8      17.6       9.3       11.0       8.0
Domestic Savings                             -5.4      -4.2      -2.2      -3.1       -9.9      -7.1     -14.3
Exports (gnfs)                                7.9       9.9       8.7       9.3       14.2      12.4       7.9
Imports (gnfs)                               27.8      28.5      28.7      30.1      33.5      30.6       30.2
Government Budget:                                                   (in % of GDP)
CurrentRevenue(excl.allgrants)               15.1      16.9      16.9      17.4       17.2      18.8      11.6
Current Expenditure                          15.0      14.5      14.8      17.2      17.1       17.1      17,7
Current Balance (incl. current grants)        2.9       5.5       4.8       3.7       0.6        3.2      -4.9
(O)verall Deficit 4/                         -2.7       -0.2     -2.9       -3.9      -4.8      -3.6    -10.5
Balance of Payments:                                  (in millions of VS1$ unless otherwise indicated)
Merchandise Trade Balance                  -116.5   -105.6   -104.3    -99.0    -79.8    -92.9   -128.1
Resource Balance                           -225.3   -217.0   -217.5   -195.5    -186.7   -192.1   -211.9
% of GDP                                   -19.9    -18.6    -20.0    -20.8    -19.2    -18.1           -22.3
Current Account (incl. official transfers)  -66.6    -29.6    -50.7    -25.6         -9.1       13.9    -76.8
% of GDP                                    -5.9      -2.5      -4.7      -2.7       -0.9       1.3     -8.1
I/ Scenario taking into consideration the effects of the trade embargo.
2/ At market prices.
3/ Source: World Bank DRS.
4/ Includes current and capital grants and net lending.
Source: Government of Burundi, lMF and Bank staff estimates



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                at Appraisal/Redefined     Status             Impact of Study
1. Social Impact of    Reinitiate the economic  Actual             Sensitization of
Privatization      reforms program as it     (presentation       decision makers
related to the objectives of  during the     and the civil
the third Structural      Privatization      society about the
Adjustment Credit         Seminar, May '96)  positive aspects of
reducing the role
of the state.



Table 8. Financing Requirements and Disbursements by Donor Agencies
(in US$ million)
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM (ERP)
I         7                        Planned 11
Secured Financing by Sector       Total|[ Belgium       EU      France  Germany   IDA         UNDP    USAID
HEALTH                                    3.2         1.7                          0.1      0.1       0.7        0.6
EDUCATION (primary & secondary)           5.5        4.4                           0.3      0.8
AGRICULTURE                               2.9                  1.3                 0.3      1.2       0.2
INFRASTRUCTURE                            3.5        0.3                           2.4      0.8
PRIVATE SECTOR                            1.7        0.8                0.9
TotalSecuredFinancina         16.9        7.21     1.31     0.91       3.11     2.9       0.9        0.6
Expected additional Financing 2/| Belgium    EU                   France  Germany   IDA        UNDP    USAID
HEALTH                                                                                      5.5
EDUCATION (primary & secondary)                                                             4.5
AGRICULTURE                                                                                 2.0
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                              1.0_
PRIVATE SECTOR                                 l__                ll_                       0.4
CONSULTANT FEES                                l                                            0.11         I
UNALLOCATED                                                                                 1.0|
Total Additional Financin       36.1|       4.21     8.1       2.61      6.6      14.6          1
GRAND TOTAL                       114        9.41     3.5       97       17.5|      0.91       0.6
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT (EAP)
|Financing by Sector 3/              Category  Planned 1/                 Disbursements                   EAP Total
I CY 19951 CY 1996 1 CY 1997]
HEALTH                                 I -A        5.512              3.415     2.850    0.209                 6.474
EDUCATION (primary & secondary)        I-B         4.544              1.120     3.715    0.021                 4.855
AGRICULTURE                            I -C        1.981              1.239     0.768    0.032                 2.038
INFRASTRUCTURE                         I -D        0.983              0.206     0.721    0.064                 0.990
PRIVATE SECTOR                         I-E         0.447              0.395     0.090    0.000                 0.486
CONSULTANT FEES                     SA-A&F ,       0.149              2.9981   -3.0001    0.00ol              -0002
UNALLOCATED                          UNALL         0.983              0.000     0.000    0.0 0                0.000
TOTAL               |  14.600 |        |   9.3731    5.1441   0.325 l          | 14.842|
I / As provided in the President's Report.
2/ Anticipated financing based on the findings of the appraisal mission in September 1994. Detailed breakdown available only for IDA.
3/ Disbursements available only for IDA. Detailed breakdowns of disbursed secured and additionalfinancing by sector not available
for other donors.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
There were no legal covenants for this credit
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned 1                Actual
Project Cycle                                                        l
Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$
thousands
Preparation to Appraisal                                       21.3        52.7
Appraisal-Board                                                22.3        73.4
Negotiations through Board Approval                             5.6         9.1
Supervision                                                    24.4        44.9
Completion                              11.0        9.7        11.0         9.7
TOTAL                                   11.0        9.7        73.6       180.1
1/ Not available.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number   Days              Specialized          Implement.   Developm.   Types of
Stage of      Month/       of        in             Staff Skills           Status     Objectives   Problems
Project Cycle     Year    Persons    Field            Represented
Through Appraisal    9/94       15        19    Country Economist                _             _           _
Economist
Private sector specialist
Infrastructure specialists (2)
Health specialist
Education specialist
Agriculture sector specialist
Operations Analyst
Lawyer
Consultant
Research Assistant
Resident Mission (3)
Appraisal through    n.a.      n.a.      n.a.   n.a.                              _            _           _
Board Approval
Supervision         6/95        1         4     Operations officer (RM)           S            S          n.a.
4/96       2         5      Country Economnist              HS            S          n.a.
Operations Officer (RM)
Completion           2/97       1         3      Operations Officer (RM)
1/ Part of a PER mission.



APPENDIX A
MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE






Aide memoire
Rapport de fin d'execution du Projet d'Aide d'Urgence.
(Cr.2668-BI)
1.    Une reunion regroupant la Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale et les
representants des services du Gouvemement impliques dans P'ex6cution du Projet d'Aide
d'Urgence (Cr.2668-BI) s'est tenue le 11 f6vrier 1997 a Bujumbura. La reunion avait les
objectifs suivants: (i) presenter le projet de rapport de fin d'execution du Projet d' Aide
d'Urgence; (ii) recueillir les avis et commentaires des participants sur le projet de rapport;
(iii) reunir les informations necessaires pour completer et finaliser le rapport. La Mission
Residente de la Banque tient a remercier le Ministere des Finances pour avoir bien voulu
organiser cette reunion, elle tient egalement a remercier tous les services et les participants
pour leur apport a 1'enrichissement du rapport de fin d'execution.
2.    Apres une presentation succincte de la nature et des objectifs des rapports de fin
d'execution en general et une breve pr6sentation du rapport de fin d'execution du Projet
d'Aide d'Urgence en particulier, les participants ont passe en revue le rapport chapitre par
chapitre. II est ressorti des differents echanges de points de vue que le projet de rapport
de fin d'execution rend compte de maniere fidele de l'execution du projet.  Le
Gouvemement et la Banque ont des points de vues et une appreciation presque identiques
sur le projet. Les points sur lesquels des differences d'appreciation ont ete observees
concement d'une part la facon dont est decrit le contexte general et la situation politique
et d'autre part la vision de la Banque quant a ses operations ulterieures. La Mission
Residente a pris note des observations et commentaires emis, elle a toutefois indique qu'en
ce qui concerne ces deux points le rapport refletait la perception de la Banque seule.
3.    Le Gouvemement a l'instar de la Banque pense que cette operation est
satisfaisante A maints egards.  11 s'agissait egalement de la premiere experience
d'utilisation d'une agence privee comme maitre d'oeuvre dans P'execution d'un projet
gouvernemental. L'experience est jug6e satisfaisante, il a cependant ete releve que le
demarrage a ete lent et laborieux. Le contexte difficile dans lequel le projet a evolue
notamment P'insecurite et la demobilisation de P'administration publique explique en
grande partie "le retard d'allumage."
4.    Realisation des objectifs du projet. La reunion a permis de corriger quelques
imprecisions et relever quelques omissions. Ces corrections et ajouts seront incorpores
dans la version finale du rapport.
5.    Bilan de 1'execution et principaux facteurs ayant influe sur le projet. Suivant
le Gouvernement, il est inexact d'indiquer que le Gouvernement n'a pas fait d'effort pour
mobiliser de nouvelles ressources financieres en faveur du programme de reconstruction
d'urgence. S'il est exact que le Gouvemement n'est pas arrive A mobiliser de nouvelles
ressources aupres de bailleurs, les autorites n'ont pas menage leurs efforts dans ce sens.



Toutefois les conditions et les prealables fixes par les bailleurs de fonds notamment la
securite et le respect des droits de I'homme n'ont pas et reunis de maniere juge
satisfaisante par les principaux bailleurs.
6.    La performance de la Banque et de 1'emprunteur. II n'a pas ete fait mention
de commentaires particuliers au titre de ces deux points. Le Gouvernement a cependant
tenu a signaler que le processus de recrutement de l'auditeur a et repris et termine.
Malgre les difficult6s resultant de l'embargo, I'auditeur est attendu a Bujumbura au cours
de la derniere semaine du mois de fevrier.
7.    Operations ultericures. Le Gouvemement a regrette que la Banque n'envisage
pas de nouvelles operations dans un avenir proche au moment ou les conditions de
securite se sont nettement ameliorees et que les effets du blocus imposes au Burundi
depuis aofit 1996 par quelques pays voisins se font de plus en plus sentir surtout au niveau
des groupes vulnerables. La Banque et le Gouvemement se sont entretenus sur ce sujet
lors de la visite du Directeur des Operations pour le Burundi du 4 au 6 fevrier 1997. I1 a
ainsi ete mis en lumibre que la dternioration rapide et continue des principaux indicateurs
macro-economiques, depuis le debut de 1'embargo, hypotheque presque toute chance de
succbs de tout projet de developpement. La Banque continuera de suivre de pres
l'evolution de la situation au Burundi et porter des conseils au Gouvernement dans la
definition de sa strategie pour le redressement economique et social du pays.
8.    Enseignements.  Deux enseignements suppilmentaires ont ete signale.  Les
priorites n'ont pas et suffisamment hierarchisees, si bien que dans l'execution du projet
les intervenants se sont souvent plus attaches a mettre en oeuvre les activites realisables
plus rapidement et facilement alors qu'elles n'etaient sans doute pas les plus importantes
en terme d'impact. Ainsi pour le secteur de la sante il aurait et souhaitable de concentrer
plus d'attention et d'energie sur la rehabilitation des centres de sante en essayant de
reduire voire eliminer les contraintes sur lesquelles il etait possible d'agir.   La
collaboration avec une entreprise locale privee est une experience interessante qui merite
d'etre renouvelbe a l'avenir. II a cependant btb note que le partage des r6les et des
responsabilit6s sont a dbfinir de mani&e precise autant que possible des le dbpart. En
effet, le fait que ces points n'aient pas etablis assez clairement au dbpart a retardb la
rbalisation de certaines activitbs au debut de l'entrbe en activitb de l'agence privbe.



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION






REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE CREDIT
COMPLETION REPORT
JANUARY 1997






MINISTRY OF FINANCE
COMPLETION REPORT
A.    Introduction
1.    Not since independence has Burundi been faced with a social, political and economic crisis
of such magnitude as now. The landscape has been transformed by the destruction of every type
of asset: houses, roads, bridges, schools, public administrative buildings, forest areas. No
province has escaped the effects of this crisis, though some have been luckier than others. Whole
communities have had to abandon their familiar surroundings. Infrastructure has been destroyed.
Production plant and equipment has either deteriorated or purely and simply been lost for good.
The deterioration in socio-economic conditions is evident in all spheres of life.
In the health sector, there has been an upsurge in such endemo-epidemic diseases as
malaria, diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory infections in children, not to mention cyclic
epidemics of bacillary dysentery, cholera and typhus attributable to the deterioration in conditions
of hygiene.
In education, there has been considerable loss, with a marked decline in enrollments.
Public primary and secondary schools have suffered from the departure of teachers and
administrators. Acts of violence, pillage and destruction against school buildings, plant and
equipment have been commonplace.
In the infrastructure sector, water supply facilities, bridges, roads and rural tracks,
municipal service facilities, and water and sewer mains in Bujumbura have been vandalized and
destroyed.
In agriculture, hectares of woodlands and coffee plantations have been badly damaged by
fire or uprooted, hangars and dipping tanks damaged, and thousands of head of large and small
livestock decimated.
In the private sector, numerous warehouses and stores have been destroyed or burned,
markets have closed down for security reasons, and small-scale enterprises have suspended their
activities.



2
B.    Government Objective
2.    In the circumstances, the Government of Burundi determined to launch an emergency
program that would lead to economic recovery, help reduce poverty and set the country on a
sustainable growth path. It committed itself to restoring public service activities by rehabilitating
social infrastructure and specialized economic assets and getting the production system back into
operation.
Accordingly, within the context of the Emergency Recovery Program cofinanced by
ACCT, Belgium, France, Germany, IDA, UNDP, the European Union and USAID, the
Government set about addressing problems in the health, education, agriculture and private
sectors and rehabilitating infrastructure through carefully targeted actions.
C.    Credit Agreement
3.    A Development Credit Agreement, No. 2668-BU, for an Emergency Assistance Project
was signed on January 18, 1995 between the Republic of Burundi and the International
Development Association (IDA).
D.    Project Objectives
4.    As stated in the Credit Agreement, the objective of the project was to assist Burundi in
reestablishing conditions that would enable it to rebuild its institutional capacity to restore long-
term economic growth and alleviate poverty.
In order to achieve these objectives, the measures listed below were planned:
Part A: Rehabilitation of the health sector
The project was to support the health sector in carrying out the following actions:
(i) Reconstitution of working stocks of drugs; (ii) rehabilitation of health centers; (iii)
supply of vehicles and equipment; (iv) strengthening of sectoral management capabilities;
(v) improvement of the nutritional intake of children and nursing mothers; and (vi)
provision of subsidies to cover the cost of medical insurance for those most affected by
recent events in Burundi.
Part B: Rehabilitation of the education sector
The project called for the following actions:  (i) Rehabilitation and construction of
classrooms; (ii) provision of textbooks; (iii) supply of vehicles and equipment; (iv) training
of teachers; (v) training in basic democratic values; and (vi) provision of subsidies to cover
the cost of education for orphans and children of displaced persons.



3
Part C: Rehabilitation of the agriculture sector
The actions planned were: (i) Supply of tools and seeds; (ii) rehabilitation of rural
infrastructure; (iii) supply of vehicles and bicycles; and (iv) environmental rehabilitation of
areas damaged by fires.
Part D: Rehabilitation of infrastructure
The project was to assist with: (i) Repair of bridges; (ii) replacement of water and sewer
conduits in Bujumbura; and (iii) rehabilitation of municipal buildings.
Part E: Rehabilitation of the private sector
The private sector was to benefit from project support in connection with: (i) Labor-
intensive works in several arenas but particularly reforestation and infra-structure in rural
areas; and (ii) credit facilities for small rural investments.
Part F: Consultants' services
The project was to finance audits and special studies in connection with rehabilitation
activities.
E.    Project Implementation
5.    Activities financed from counterpart funds actually begun in November 1995, although
they should have been started immediately after the Credit Agreement had come into effect on
April 14, 1995.
The delay in commencing project activities was a consequence of the partial paralysis still
affecting the government departments concerned, whose staff could not manage to submit
financing requests that complied with Ministry of Finance eligibility criteria. This was also the
reason why a private consulting agency had to be commissioned to provide support for the
various sectoral implementation units.
6.    Once the private consulting agency took up its duties, it assisted the various sector
ministerial offices with the formulation of financing requests, an arrangement that eventually
meant the sectors succeeded in submitting financing requests based on careful study, and by
extension that the Coordination Committee was able to reach decisions rapidly and confidently.
7.    It is to be noted that the project was deprived of FBu 1 billion and FBu 520 million in
counterpart funds, amounts diverted in 1995 and 1996, respectively, to cover debt service
obligations on World Bank and African Development Bank loans. The result was that certain
project activities could not be funded in their entirety.



4
8.    All in all, the impact of the project has been positive, as may be seen from the following
sector-by-sector survey of results achieved.
Health Sector
9.    In this sector, the key concerns were reconstitution of drug stocks and rehabilitation of
health centers. The project contributed to replenishment of the inventory of the Pharmaceutical
Depot in Bujumbura, on the basis of purchases of products manufactured locally by ONAPHA
(the National Pharmaceuticals Authority), import of generic products not manufactured in
Burundi, and reimbursement of hospitals for the costs of products supplied by the Depot. This
gave rural hospitals and the health centers easy access to pharmaceutical products. However, it
proved impossible to move ahead with rehabilitation of health centers because of widespread poor
security conditions. Where hospital power and water supplies had been disrupted, project funds
were used to purchase generators and install water towers.
10.   The project reimbursed medical care and hospital costs for the injured or sick, and
financed the cost of health insurance cards for 55,885 households.
11.   The project also financed ambulances for rural hospitals, and medicallsurgical equipment
and laboratory materials and supplies for the hospitals in the capital, Bujumbura, and the Gitega
hospital.
Education Sector
12.   The project contributed to the financing of the restoration of sanitary facilities (showers
and toilets) at ten secondary schools (Musema, Buye, Bururi, Matana, Rubanga, Rugari, Ngagara,
Mugera, Mweya and Kiganda) and rehabilitation of two of the schools themselves (Rugari and
Bururi).
13.   The project also financed the import of 11,500 reams of paper and 3,000 reams of
cardboard for the printing of textbooks to replace those destroyed during the crisis. Another
important project component was the financing of training for 1,850 non-qualified primary school
teachers, which helped restart the basic education system throughout the country. In addition,
each of the 17 provincial primary education inspection services received a vehicle. The project
helped improve living conditions in boarding schools by funding purchases of beds and mattresses,
and scholastic conditions in general by financing the purchase of materials and supplies for physics
and biology laboratories. Finally, canton education services received office equipment (stenciling
machines) and, but for the embargo, teaching aids and typewriters would already be on hand.
14.   Finally, project proceeds were used to pay tuition for 11,000 indigent pupils enrolled in
schools where over 10% of the student body was destitute. These schools received payment of
two-thirds of the tuition fees normally payable by pupils. These same pupils also received project-
financed school supplies (exercise books of different types, pens, erasers, rulers, compasses,
paintboxes).



5
Agriculture Sector
15.   The project contributed to the financing of 1,045 metric tons of bean seed for both
displaced and non-displaced farmers, with 76,470 households benefiting in the following
provinces:   Bujumbura-Rural, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Gitega, Muramvya, Muyinga,
Bujumbura-Mairie and Rutana.
The project also financed the purchase of hoes and other agricultural implements for
22,500 households, plus potato seed for distribution through seed centers. Some associations and
groups of farmers also benefited from this seed distribution program.
16.   The overall project aim in this sector was to increase agricultural production, and the
distribution of food-crop seeds helped achieve production levels that were satisfactory, given the
prevailing circumstances.
Infrastructure Sector
17.   The project financed the following series of repair works to the country's National
Routes:
- reopening of National Route 1 (RN1) to traffic at km 26 and km 29+900;
- reopening of RN1O to traffic where it was interrupted at km 63+300;
- replacement of collapsed culverts at km 23+600 and km 30.
18.   The project also financed the following works on water and sewer conduits, roads and
streets in the municipality of Bujumbura:
- filling of potholes (along 18 avenues and boulevards in the capital itself);
- cleaning of sewer mains (at 21 points in the capital);
- grading and graveling of nine earth roads in the municipality;
- "Operation Clean Sweep" in all districts of the capital.
19.   Finally, project funds were allocated for rehabilitation of the Kamenge District municipal
offices. These works, currently still in progress, are scheduled for completion in March 1997.
Private Sector
20.   The project financed labor-intensive works in various spheres of activity, but chiefly
reforestation and infrastructure in rural areas: for instance, restoration of a 14-ha reforestation
scheme destroyed during the events of October 1993.
21.   With regard to the provision of credit facilities for small and medium enterprises in rural
zones, loans were granted to:



6
- Comptoirs miniers des exploitations du Burundi (COMEBU), for replacement and
rehabilitation of stolen or damaged mining equipment;
- a Widows Association, for grain crops to be grown on a 20-ha area of land;
- a Repatriates Association, for grain crops to be grown on a 55-ha area of land.
Audit and Special Studies of Recovery Activities
22.   An audit is to be made of the project for the period September 1995-December 31, 1996.
Negotiations with the audit firm have been competed and a contract signed. The auditor is to
arrive in Burundi at the end of February 1997, and the preliminary report is expected to be
available by March 15, 1997.
23.   A seminar on privatization has been organized, and project-financed arrangements have
been made for the participation of an international consultant.
F.    Government Performance: Project Organization and Management
24.   Organization of the project was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which needed
to work in conjunction with the sectoral authorities in general but mainly the Ministries of
Agriculture, Health, and Education and the Departments of Roads and Public Works - whose
activities were funded from Burundian counterpart funds. Project management was in the hands
of a Coordination Committee backed by a consulting firm commissioned to assist the separate
sectoral implementation units with formulation of their financing requests, monitor sectoral
subprojects through to completion of the execution process, and help the Committee handle
administrative matters.
25.   In the case of seasoned and experienced sectoral implementation units like the Education
Projects Bureau of the Ministry of Education, the consulting firm working with the Coordination
Committee had only to oversee their execution of project-related activities. In that of less
experienced sectoral units, the consultants handled their subprojects from the appraisal stage
through to delivery of the works or goods in question.
G.   World Bank Performance
26.   The World Bank supervised the project very closely. A representative of the Bank's
Resident Mission in Burundi was a member of the Coordination Committee. This close
collaboration enabled each of the partners to remain fully conversant with both the successes and
difficulties of the execution process, and to take any necessary remedial steps in good time.
H.   Lessons and Future Prospects
27.   The most striking feature of this operation was the key role in project execution given to a
local private consulting firm. The inclusion of this firm made it possible to launch and achieve
rapid implementation of activities financed from counterpart funds. It is clear, however, that the



7
role of NGOs and private parties in the execution of project components should have been
reinforced in those instances where the sectoral implementation units were less experienced.
28.   In future operations, this type of project execution mechanism could again prove very
worthwhile, although greater attention should be paid to defining the framework for collaboration
so that the roles and responsibilities of the different partners are spelled out as clearly as possible.
CONCLUSION
It is the wish of the Government to have the benefit of a second, similar project focused
on:
- rehabilitation of health centers;
- rehabilitation of schools;
- restoration of agricultural production, and reconstitution of the livestock population
decimated by the crisis.
Security conditions in Burundi are improving, and thanks to experience gained there are
grounds for believing that such activities can be carried through satisfactorily.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28085
CAMEROON  ACENTRALAFRCAN REPU.     SUANN E_ THOPA
GU     ,_,<T T RICAN REPLtgj-                                                   30W00                              30t3
GOUNA7                              )J} {     2GANDA ~  A
' ,' . ~~KENYA ;*v
GABON }                  RWAND                                                                   BURUNDI
GABCONG    ZAIRE   E4BURUNDI
CONGO
ZAMBIA        TANZANIA
1NOl /    
,ABIA    N,MOZAMBIQyJE    -.                                            /1)                                      2130
NAN\IEIA - ZlhWRAEWE \ RWANDA  A KIRUNDOI
'CYon9u9o(                                     To Kigoli
/2  t   }    ie                       f           TANZANIA
'<  \   5 -         e -t                       N         G     i      A     wf~~~~~MUYNG
\<CIBITOKE  
-30c X 3 KAYANZA ~~~~~NGOZI ,e^
ZA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
3.
'     BUB3ANZA                                            J             
r// KARUZI
- n  J                     /                 /  </   ~~~~~~~~~CANKUZO            i
To Mulongwe
i     a f UJUMiBURA                       \         --       
\    t;f - \  K              -8)GITEGA   - -' ~~~~~RUYIGI                     r
\    ,    82   t                     l> ~~~~~RUTANA  
S  >(:,   \    BURURN~~ -G-i-    ; .hofi  {                     _    Paved Roads                   oQo -
-  77    ;Routes Revetues
\j a  .s  k   rt   l   International Airport
\.  9  \    ,<,.' -                  |             j                    v    Aeroport International
0     \      ~~~MAKAMB       -                                      3'  PorDt
Province Capitals
Chef-Lieux des Province
National Capital
Capitale Notionale
Province Boundaries
Frontieres des Province
-I3__|_I International Boundaries
/ 2                                                          Frontieres Internationales
/ This mop cos prep.red by the Mop Design Unit of the World Bonk.
The boundories, colors, deon0isnoltiOns o,d ,ny other informotio  0  10   20   30    40
/shoss' or this mop do not imply. on the P.rt of The World Bosk
Grop. osy judgment or the legal statUs of any teritoy, or, ny       KILOMETERS
endorsement or ccept-nce of such boundaries.
2300                              un9O                               3000
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:..         16366
Type:      ICR



