Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2668 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 18, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2668 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower intends to carry out an emergency economic recovery 
program as it initiates a longer-term effort to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable 
growth through structural economic reform;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from various donors, including the 
European Union, Germany, Belgium, the United States of America, France and UNDP, 
grants and loans to assist in the financing of the Project;
(D)
the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi; and
 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  3
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September
15 commencing March 15, 2005 and ending September 15, 2034. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BRB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restrictions to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BRB with the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Association in support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower's Ministry of Finance shall carry overall 
responsibility for the implementation and monitoring of the Project, including 
coordination between various donors involved. Sectoral rehabilitation programs shall 
be managed by the respective line ministries;
(b)
The Ministry of Finance shall, on a three monthly basis, submit to the 
Association for review detailed progress reports on the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
Page  4
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (and not 
later than six months 
after the final disbursement from the Credit), 
a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records,
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time 
to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such  
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the minister 
responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Telex:
5135 BDI MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Beatrice Irabahinyuje
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Francisco J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated           % of
                                (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Eligible imports                                100% of foreign
    required for the                                expenditures
    Project as speci-
    fied in Schedule 5
    to this Agreement:
    (a) for Part A of             3,700,000
        the Project
    (b) for Part B of             3,050,000
        the Project
    (c) for Part C of             1,330,000
        the Project
    (d) for Part D of               660,000
        the Project
    (e) for Part E of               300,000
        the Project
(2) Consultants'                    100,000            100%
    services under
    Part F of the
    Project
(3) Unallocated                     660,000
                                  _________
        TOTAL                     9,800,000
                                  =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made in respect of (a) expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
SDR1,960,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after September 1, 1994; and (b) expenditures for goods procured under contracts 
costing less than $10,000 equivalent.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reestablishing 
conditions for rebuilding institutional capacity to restore long-term economic growth 
and alleviate poverty.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of the health sector:
 
1.
Reconstitution of working stocks of drugs;
 
2.
Rehabilitation of health centers;
 
3.
Supply of vehicles and equipment;
 
4.
Strengthening of sectoral management capabilities;
 
5.
Improvement of the nutritional intake of children and feeding mothers; and
 
6.
Provision of subsidies to cover the cost of medical insurance for those most 
affected by recent events in Burundi.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of the education sector
 
1.
Rehabilitation and construction of classrooms;
 
2.
Provision of textbooks;
 
3.
Supply of vehicles and equipment;
 
4.
Training of teachers;
 
5.
Training in basic democratic values;
 
6.
Provision of subsidies to cover the cost of education for orphans and children 
of displaced persons.
Part C:
Rehabilitation of the agriculture sector
 
1.
Supply of tools and seeds;
 
2.
Rehabilitation of rural infrastructure;
 
3.
Supply of vehicles and bicycles; and
 
4.
Environmental rehabilitation of areas damaged by fires. 
 
Part D:
Rehabilitation of infrastructure
 
1.
Repair of bridges;
 
2.
Replacement of canalization tubes in Bujumbura; and
 
3.
Rehabilitation of communal buildings.
 
Part E:
Rehabilitation of the private sector
 
1.
Provision of labor intensive works on, inter alia, reforestation and 
infrastructure in rural areas; and
2.
Provision of credit for small rural investments.
 
Part F:
Page  8
Audits and special studies regarding rehabilitation activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 29, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 each shall be awarded through international competitive 
bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the goods 
required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
(d)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.
(e)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Credit. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  9
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or less shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that (i) such procedures hall have been found acceptable by the Association, and (ii) 
at least three price quotations shall have been solicited from a list of at least 
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, except that direct contracting 
procedures acceptable to the Association may be used when considered appropriate under 
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used 
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Goods procured shall be subject to pre-shipment inspection by a third party 
inspection firm, except that goods procured under paragraph 1 above shall not be 
subject to price verification.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 above, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the 
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such 
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the 
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and 
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. Where payments under a contract are to be made 
out of the proceeds of the Special Account, such copies together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to this paragraph 
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably request 
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where payments under a 
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation 
and information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions of this 
paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of paragraph 5 above shall not apply to contracts on account of 
which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower with the implementation of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
Page  10
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $50,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $ 
3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Goods referred to in Part A of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
-
Mineral products (Section V)
 
-
Products of the chemical industry or of related industries (Section VI)
 
-
Plastics and articles made from plastics; rubber and rubber articles 
(Section VII)
-
Wood, charcoal, wooden articles, cork and cork articles, esparto, basket 
work or 
wickerwork articles (Section IX)
Page  12
-
Wood pulp or pulp made from other cellulosic fibrous materials; scrap and 
waste paper 
or cardboard; paper and its applications (Section X)
 
-
Textiles and textile articles (Section XI)
 
-
Articles made from stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica or similar 
substances; 
ceramic products; glass and glass articles (Section XIII)
 
-
Base metals and articles made from such metals (Section XV)
 
-
Transportation equipment (Section XVII)
-
Optical, photographic, cinematographic, measurement, control or precision 
instruments 
and apparatus; medical and surgical instruments and apparatus; 
parts and accessories 
for these instruments and apparatus (Section XVIII)
 
-
agricultural products (Section II)
